ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e98	Representatives Abid Q. Raja and Stefan Heggelund, who have been licensed, have once again taken their seats. The called alternate of the South-Trøndelag County, Kristian Torve, now takes the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e121	The representative of Audun Lysbakken will present three proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e126	On behalf of the representative Bears Moxnes and myself, I would like to make proposals on a diverse nursery sector where the money goes to the best of the children. On behalf of the representatives Arne Nävra, Karin Andersen and myself, I would like to make proposals to ensure the transfer of business to the staff of the railway. Given the time perspective for that process, we ask for urgent procedure in accordance with § 39c of the Rules of Procedure. Then, on behalf of the representatives of Solfrid Lerbreck, Karin Andersen, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Arne Nävra and myself, I would like to make suggestions to give full treatment to the social security settlement in the Stortinget, to show the elderly of the country the respect they deserve. Since it has not been delivered as a matter to Stortinget, I would also like to propose urgent treatment according to § 39c.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e135	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e142	The President will state that, in the event of an incursion on Thursday 24 May, the statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on important EU and EEA matters was not annexed to the Protocol. The President will therefore now propose that the statement on important EU and EEA matters be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16 until the current map has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e162	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e171	The Minister for Gender Equality has given us a thorough account in Stortinget, which I will actually call the state of the state of the state of equality. This year, 40 years have elapsed since the adoption of the Equality Act by Stortinget – a small anniversary. We have come a long way in Norway, but we are not on target. It's going to go the right way. We have a high level of participation among women in work. We get fewer and fewer part-time jobs, more women take higher education, yes, actually more than men, and we have more women in leadership positions. Although women's rights are in place, there are attitudes that need to be combated. For many women in the 1960s, 1970s, 1980s, yes, in fact in the 1990s, men were still commended and subordinate to the labour market and often in their homes. Those who wanted to combine children and family with a job that gave financial autonomy, support many problems, not least because of lack of kindergartens. Many obtained a good education in the 1970s, but came to a job that gave low pay, low status and at the same time had homework to work with. Ingrained attitudes such as that women should be at home and baby-sitting were prevailing. Some people think, a little humorous, that it was the washing machine and the p-pillar that really speeded up the women's liberation. There might be something in there. A little anecdote: In my textbook at high school were the following doctrines, which I was to chew: Father reads the paper and smokes the pipe. Mom's washing up. Luckily, I had a mother who reacted to it at a lecture hearing. But unfortunately, we also see such attitudes today, and I want to point out the challenges we face in some immigrant environments. They have to be controlled. Gender equality must focus on the whole life cycle. This applies in kindergarten, school and community institutions. This applies in religious communities, in health care, in the police, in the military and in politics. Women in public positions are well placed, but we have a good deal left in business. Attitudes that support the fact that women do not have the same conditions as men in order to participate in the labour market must be taken into account. In this way, I will correct a little bit to my colleague, Jon Engen-Helgheim. I refer to both Facebook mail and previous statements, which can be understood as women having a biological – let's say – condition that does not require full-time work. You can imagine that it's linked to the fact that working at home is a better and more appropriate value than being out of work. Now it is not certain that the statement was meant this way, but there are such statements that set the value of it to be at home and the value of it to be working against each other, and that strengthens the attitude that women in the full-time position may not be so important. It has to be controlled. We see that in some immigrant environments there is an attitude about a desire to control women – to direct them to whom they are going to marry, what they are going to wear, whether they are going to take on education, where they are going to work, and not least how much they are going to work and when they are going to stop working. Violence in close relationships remains a major challenge for equality. 40 years ago, there was no open talk of violence. It was hidden within the home's four walls. We must fight sexualised violence against women and trafficking in human beings. Gender mutilation is prohibited, but still taking place. Forced marriage is prohibited, but is still in progress. This, I believe, is one of the greatest challenges of our time, and there I would like to commend the Progress Party, which put these illegalities on the agenda at an early stage. This must be combated by all means. Equality is about more than women's rights. We must combat racism, religious discrimination, anti-Semitism and social control.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e199	Around 1970, the proportion of women in paid employment in Norway was among the lowest in Europe. By the end of the 1980s, we were at the top of the world. Maybe this is the greatest social change in our country in the 20th century. A society can face such changes passively, make the market and power decide, or we can choose to meet it with politics. The story of Norway is that we chose the last one – not bet in one area, but in many, not random ad hoc measures, but a broader idea of what equality is all about: solidarity, justice, equal opportunities and self-determination, with measures and reforms for the family, the construction of kindergartens, women's rights, the organisation of education and equality in the labour market. So great was this change, and so great is this change, that policies to ensure equal rights and opportunities for women and men must last, be persevering, renew and hold on to important bets – nothing less – into our century and into the decades that come, for this is not an effort that one day is crowned with its ultimate goal. Norway became known as the world champion in equality. The World Economic Forum measures the distance between women’s and men’s access to education, economics, policies and health resources. Distance decreased in Norway — evenly. Many from the outside would learn about the experience of kindergarten betting, cardboard, equalising tax policies and their own equality law. So something happened on this index. Norway fell back. The gap between women and men began to rise again, by 1 percentage point in 2016 and a new percentage point in 2017. I listened to the Minister for Gender Equality's statement last week against this curtain. Instead of setting new goals – new initiatives – in response to the challenges we are facing, the Council of State has chosen to look back to a large extent. There she saw a lot of good equality policy, but we're talking about the sum of measures that the right-hand side has been quite systematically fighting against. On the other hand, the small Minister for Gender Equality has to point out that measures that Stortinget has fought against the government’s will. The experience is that the blue government is pursuing a policy that weakens equality: They're increasing the cash support. They slow down kindergarten expansion – and the number of children in kindergarten is falling. They cut into the support of all those who work for increased equality. They cut the spring quota, and the number of fathers who took more than ten weeks' leave, sank like a rock. The Council of State is now telling her to celebrate the 40th anniversary of the Equality Act. It becomes a strange celebration, because that law has actually removed the government as its own law and made it part of an anti-discrimination law. In addition, they have removed the obligation to account for the vast majority of enterprises in Norway — which means that employers no longer need to tell what they are doing to increase gender equality in the workplace. Almost all policies have a gender impact. There are many examples of decisions that have taken us in the wrong direction: as when they weakened the Working Environment Act and made it more difficult to combine family life and working life like when they work for Sunday open shops, which will make many more thousands of women have to work on Sundays, it hits the families. and that when they make the richest and the most rich among us – and thus the most men – get the greatest tax relief And there's more. This is serious, because it is not just an index drawn up in Geneva. It's about people, it's about us -- about the 60-year-old who's been working part-time throughout their working life, taking long leave with their children and not having the money to divorce, even if she's not doing well in marriage, about the many women who haven't had a job that hasn't given them an additional pension from the first crown, about the danger that has to be fought to get their kids together after a conflict break, about the girl who doesn't get to party with the other class because the parents don't want her to be with boys, or about the woman who gets sexually harassed by the boss, but who bites it in her, in fear of not getting new jobs. The truth is, there are equality challenges in all parts of our society, and it will continue to be so. It must meet with new initiatives and new objectives. Therefore, the Labour Party is using the opportunity today to make two proposals to address two of the main challenges in the field of gender equality: the unfair distribution of income and capital and the high proportion of women working part-time. We now got new numbers for nurses so far this year. About half of the jobs are full-time, the rest are part-time. Equality requires a political will to bring about change. The Community must take responsibility for giving people equal opportunities and self-determination, irrespective of background, regardless of gender. I therefore take up the proposals that we have made.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e250	The representative Jonas Gahr Støre has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e255	First, I would like to thank the Council of State for a good and thorough report on the status of equality work in Norway. It was particularly interesting to hear the Council of State point out that today's equality debate is a completely different one from the one that went ahead. It is also exciting to hear about the international work that Norway is doing for equality and women’s rights in other countries. Such international work has its own resonance when we see how immigration presents us with domestic challenges among people from cultures where equality does not exist. Gender issues often lead to heated debate in Norway. It is one of the major debates that have gone through Norwegian policies for generations, as well as e.g. issues related to language, alcohol or district policy. The party of progress is a liberalist party that sees every individual as equal. For us, no one should be discriminated against because of who they are. At the same time, it is not possible to get under the chair that there have also been many representatives in our party with – what to say – traditional views on the differences between women and men. Some people even have strong opinions about what is appropriate for one or the other sex. But – and this is important – it has always been that discrimination has not been acceptable. It is therefore still possible to discuss today why society is not fully gender-balanced in all areas. But equality doesn't in any way imply that everyone chooses the same. Equality assumes that everyone has the full opportunity to choose as they choose. It doesn't assume that everyone makes the same choice. In recent years, we have seen that an increasing proportion of the population cannot choose for themselves. I'm talking about immigrant women, and I'm talking about others who come into contact with immigrants with bad attitudes to the freedom of others. The real equality fight today is the fight that all women can be free from things we thought we were done with. We thought we were done with arranged marriages. We thought we'd done that father and brother decided about mother and daughter. We thought we were done with medieval customs, such as sexual mutilation, coercion and so-called family. The fact that the movement of women still seems to be indifferent to the fact that all this is taking place in Norway today is worrying. And that the left-hand side doesn't want to see that in many environments there are still women who don't get to live their lives the way they want, is something we know. But it doesn't get any less sad for that reason. Fortunately, in recent years, we have seen more people protesting against what is happening. We have heard courageous voices, such as Shurika Hansen, who stand up to unculture and fight an expedient battle – all honor to her. It's important that we cheer on these voices. It's important that we all get to live their lives the way they want, regardless of what others think. At the same time, we know that equality is more than one thing. The formal thing is that we make sure that everyone has equal legal rights in society by means of laws against discrimination. But equality is also attitudes. In fact, we have to learn to see people for whom they are, and what they want, and not with preconceived opinions and attitudes about who we think they are. We can never take attitudes for granted. Therefore, it is through a good and informed conversation in society that we ensure that women's discriminatory attitudes and actions are exposed and eliminated.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e278	All human beings shall have equal rights and equal opportunities to participate in society, regardless of gender, function, ethnicity, language, religion, outlook, sexual orientation, gender identity and expression and age. The Central Party believes that gender equality and anti-discrimination work is a matter of a holistic social view. The best frameworks for equality exist in a society with small differences between people and secure local communities where everyone has a place. The proximity of services and the short route between the elected and elected people create communities where the voluntary efforts, individuals and municipalities cooperate well. Compared to other countries, Norway has come a long way when it comes to equality, but we also need to see that we still have major challenges. The challenges were well described in the statement from Hofstad Helleland, which she held last week, but the measures are not entirely in line with the description of reality. By the state councils, we received largely descriptions of what is essentially the unity of existence, and we are also some that this must be combative and taken with the greatest seriousness – whether it be negative social control, methotrexate, discrimination against minorities and immigrants, racism, body pressure and poor self-image, which were also referred to by the Council of State. However, I do not have elements in the distribution that took into account the experience and status of the government's equality work. The distribution was largely influenced by some storytelling and general descriptions of challenges that we know exist. Furthermore, I lack the decisive voluntary efforts in the work on equality and against discrimination, in the distribution of the Councils of State. I also demand more targeted efforts and focus on people with reduced function. However, this group was mentioned in the distribution – in a few articles of order. Governments are talking about the development of a strategy, with objectives and priorities for this group. It is important that this work is given priority. This is a group that often ends up in the last row and is ignored in several contexts. I agree with the Council of State that it is important that hateful statements have consequences and are followed up by the police and the judiciary. I am therefore pleased that earlier this year, on an action plan against racism and discrimination, the Central Party's proposals for representatives led to a decision on a collapse decision on an action plan against racism and ethnic and religious discrimination, because that is what is needed. I would also like to point to the responsibility that we, as elected representatives and politicians, have to lead as a good example. Our way of communicating affects where the boundaries go for what is perceived as good in public. Discrimination in housing, the labour market, outdoors and other places can lead to the growth of children and young people without feeling that they belong to. Folks must take responsibility for more than making laws. We also have to take responsibility for the way in which we associate with each other and talk about each other and talk about each other is characterized by respect. I think it's a political task to gather us and dampen the fear of what's different. State councils mention that she is busy getting more immigrant women into work. She is concerned that only four out of ten immigrant women are at work. I note that an integration strategy will be put forward by the end of 2018. I look forward to that. In this context, it is important to note that when immigrant women are becoming a turning point for hot value debates, their potential on the labour market may be weakened. Furthermore, it is a reality that we have an increasingly tough labour market for many occupational groups. The approach to the labour market is more urgent – whether it concerns traditional women’s drugs, young people with low levels of education, refugees or people with reduced working capacity. Many are also more exposed to cyclical fluctuations and downskills, even if they have a foot inside. I must commend the Council of State for initiating a round table discussion with immigrants in order to discuss gender equality. It's a trick, immigrants need to be more involved and contribute to gender equality. I hope she can continue on that track and have a targeted effort directed at this group. When it comes to the five proposals that have been put forward on this subject, the Central Party announces that we will vote in favour of proposal No. Two, four, five.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e306	We are here today – grateful for the fight the women's movement has led before us. Strong women have faced both ridicule and invisibility and have fought through important victories of feminism and freedom. The Council of State listed in its presentation a number of positive developments for which we can thank the women's movement. But – I have said it before, and I say it again: Norway is not yet equal. There is still a need for feminism, there is still a need for a fight for the rights of skeletons, and there is still a need for women to fight. Young girls and boys are today subjected to negative social control that limits their freedom to be what they want and to love what they want. Many have known that sexual harassment is a major social problem that pushes women out of both working and social life, has now, once and for all, been recognised and put on the agenda. The advertising industry and the beauty industry are making money on young people's uncertainties about their own bodies, leading to body pressure and mental ill health. It prevents young people's freedom to be themselves and to be like themselves. All of this is about the same repressive structures that give men more power, opportunity and wealth than women – structures related to gender role patterns, structures that hinder women's freedom in particular. That is why the fight for equality is also a struggle for freedom. SV believes that everyone should have the freedom to be themselves and do what they want, without being limited by patriarchal structures. This roll-out period has started to a large extent, but SV has already addressed the fight repeatedly. We proposed political action against sexual harassment and got through to it this winter, we have delivered 21 concrete actions against negative social control to be debated in this Chamber tomorrow, and we have proposed action against body pressure in a position issued by the Family and Culture Committee tomorrow, such as introducing a national action plan and banning advertising of cosmetic interventions. All of this is done because we know that political, structural instruments are needed to change this oppressive system; active equality policies are needed, with strong instruments. Here there is an ideological distinction in politics. While the left-hand side believes that we need an active gender equality policy that intervenes in the market and into the labour market, precisely to create more freedom, the right-hand side is ideologically skeptical of actions that correct injustice through regulation. That's why the blue-blue government doesn't have an active gender equality policy. Most of the gender equality measures implemented or under way come from the request decisions of this Chamber. We see the lack of will for equality in a number of areas. When the Storting decided on the initiative of SV to settle sexual harassment, everyone at this pulpit said that this is just the beginning. Nevertheless, the Council of State did not announce any new measures against sexual harassment in its presentation, beyond what the Storting had already decided. It disappointed me. Governments also spent a lot of time talking about body pressure in their presentation. I'm glad, because it's important, but it's a big disappointment for all those who are hit by body pressure, that the Council of State did not warn any new, concrete measures beyond putting down a sample. But even worse than a lack of action is actively taking the equality back. by proposing to cut equality centres, those working in practice, every year; by the fact that the crew in the Equality Ombudsman has been cut by more than 30 pst. under the bourgeois government by simplifying the disclosure obligation of 90 pst by the Government Parties. by the enterprises – to mention something on the long list. Therefore, we just have to state that one of the most important equality measures, at least in the short term, is to change the government. Several feminists are needed in the government offices to give priority to the gender equality struggle and to have an active gender equality policy with strong enough instruments – such as the Swedish government and the Left Party, which has allocated tens of millions to the fight against sexual harassment in the light of the Metoo campaign, or as the Icelandic government, which has adopted its own equal pay law. It is necessary to deal with advertising and the beauty industry that makes money on the poor self-esteem of young people, to combat negative social control with more than strategies, but with measures, and not least to pursue a policy of fair distribution of power and wealth between women and men by fighting for equal pay and full-time rights. Because without economic freedom and independence, equality never becomes real. So – finally: Feminism is about freedom. And no one's free until everyone's free. I refer to the suggestions SV has in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e348	The representative Freddy André Supreme Court has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e353	I would like to start by thanking the Council of State for the thorough presentation we received last week. It's a theme that we have to keep lifting forward and keeping warm. It is gratifying that, through the presentation, we see that the proportion of women in part-time jobs has never been smaller, and the pay gap is decreasing – as we saw from 2015 to 2017 – and there are several good, concrete measures. But even though most things are going in the right direction, it's clear that we're not yet in the goal. For the Left, the equality struggle has been important, and it's actually a red thread in Left's history that extends 134 years ago. The first women's association in Norway was founded by the Left People, and it was the Left who led an in the women's voting campaign before it was agreed in 1912. On the left, Norway's first female party leader, Eva Kolstad, became the world's first gender equality agency. We were in the government that introduced the quotaing of women to Norwegian companies – that was in 2004 – and we were also the first political party to introduce quotas internally. So when the opposition says that there are no government parties running active equality policies, at least they've done some history hours. But the equality struggle is a tough fight, because it's about attitudes and big structural changes that it's hard to turn around overnight. Not least, challenges and situations are changing all the time, so the measures that took place 20 years ago, 10 years ago or just 5 years ago may not be the same as those that apply today. Therefore, it is also important to ensure when proposing new measures, to test them out and to investigate them in order to find out whether there are actually measures that will work, and not just to introduce measures that once had an idea that would probably be good. But we still need to use new instruments. The last thing is that from 1 July, the government introduces a three-part parental leave with what becomes the longest parental allowance of the time. I notice that the opposition is skipping that particular point. It may be a little awkward to discuss the concrete actions actually initiated by the government. The three-part parental leave is an important gender equality fight – for women because it contributes to further reducing the burden of care. The increase in the rate of fatherhood comes with the expectation that children have two equal parents, not a mother as a parent and a father on the side, but it's also important to counteract, among other things. differences in wages and salaries in the labour market. We know that the longer a person is out of work, the more she will depend on when it comes to pay and career development. Now it is said that both mother and father take a significant part of the leave, and therefore there will be no such difference in the absence of work. It may have an effect on what is usually invisible gender discrimination, when it becomes equally ‘risky’ — if you can call it — to hire men of childbearing age, like to hire women. When absent from work due to birth is almost the same for women and men, it should also mean reduced pay differentials in the long term. But equality also applies to men, and it is precisely with the three-part parental leave – where newly-baked fathers are entitled to 15 weeks alone with their child – that it is a victory. Giving men equal rights and real opportunities to be present and associated with their children from the very beginning – the freedom to be a father – is important both for them and for the children. Now we are building equivalent role models for the future. Equal role models at home also place entirely different expectations on the children to grow up. In the left, we think that equality starts at home. When children grow up with parents who share responsibilities and care evenly between themselves, they may also expect gender equality anywhere else in society. I want to end by saying that equality embraces so many, but at last it's about giving all people equal opportunities to participate in society, and the freedom to be themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e368	It might sound obvious, but it's all too important not to be said: women and men have equal value regardless of sex. Women and men shall have equal opportunities to participate in society and to influence societal development, both formally and in practice. Equality is therefore a question of human rights and human dignity. It is not okay for girls and boys to experience different opportunities either in Norway or in the rest of the world. In Norway, we have come a long way towards equality between women and men, but we must not believe that we are on target. The challenges of equality both in Norway and internationally are great, and we have a responsibility, not least as politicians, to be aware of this. It's not possible to close your eyes to the major gender equality challenges we're facing. We know that women are subjected to violence and abuse. We know that women and men are discriminated against in the workplace, that women earn less than men, and much less have leadership positions. We know that girls and boys are treated differently and get different possibilities based on what sex they have. We know that in many countries it's much less likely that you're born at all, getting education, work and a good life if you're a girl, than if you're a boy. It's not possible to say that this is going to take care of itself. We need to use policy tools to solve the gender equality challenges. I think that's right and absolutely necessary. For equality and equivalency, we're going to have the same rights and the same opportunities, whether we're born as boys or as girls. I work with family and gender policies, and it is quite obvious that good equality policies are linked to good family policies. One of the most important tasks we have as politicians is to enable parents to combine family life and working life. The right to go to work and not choose between family and work has been a central part of the women’s struggle and is an important asset in today’s Norway. Therefore, good arrangements are so important as flexible parental leave, increased cash support, unpaid service provision, the right to be at home with sick children, breast-free and good-quality kindergartens and with good staff. In his presentation, the Minister for Gender Equality devoted a lot of time to the Metoo campaign, and I think that's very good. Many say that metoo has been an eye opener for them, while others say, "Welcome to the reality of women, we've known this for a long time." For the Christian People's Party, the understanding of the equivalency between men and women is based on our human vision. Each human being has an inviolable value and must be respected with its integrity and individuality, regardless of sex, age or level of function. Gender discrimination and harassment are so serious, for it destroys the integrity and dignity of the other person as a human being. When we bring ourselves to justice to our next, we make ourselves master over another human being, and none of us have the right to do that. As politicians and elected representatives, we have a responsibility to make it safe to warn about such behaviour, and we have a responsibility to facilitate better prevention and awareness of the problem. One of the metoo campaigns is that sexual harassment is so widespread that the majority of women – that is, the majority of our female colleagues, our sisters, our daughters – have been exposed to it. None of us can point any further to the workplace over there or to the other political party. We all have to take responsibility and start with ourselves. As the Christian People's Party spokesman for equality, I would like to stress that we value the fact that the government is clear in its platform that they will actively contribute to the work against sexual harassment, and that work must begin primarily in our own ranks. Thus, we must use the political tools at our disposal to ensure that the equivalency of women and men becomes a practical reality throughout our society. Then the disabled were mentioned. I share a little disappointment that this group was so little mentioned in the presentation. I know that the government has set in motion a cross-sectoral effort to identify where the organisations of the disabled also have to contribute. The Christian People's Party (Christian People's Party) promoted a Document 8 proposal in which we ask that there be a communication to the Stortinget about this, because we believe that the Stortinget should also be involved in the work of creating greater equality for people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e388	Thank you for your comments and for following up the presentation. I'm glad to say that in Stortinget we agree on the common challenges we have in order to improve equality. Equality is a human right, and we're going to be happy that we're one of the world's most equal countries. But that doesn't mean we can settle down on what the situation is today. We have to work systematically all the way to improve equality – not least through what may be the most difficult: changing attitudes, thoughts and ideas and structures. The easiest thing, of course, is to make changes to the law and propose coercion, to propose quotas. We have also done so to a large extent in Norway. But now it's important to look at those areas where we need to do something about people's attitudes. That's where it sits, if we're going to give everyone equal opportunities. I'm glad that the proportion of women who work part-time has never been less than today. I am glad that in Norway there is no law on pay discrimination. In fact, a suspect in pay discrimination may require information about the salary of the person with whom he or she compares. The main reason for differences in pay between women and men today is the sex-shared labour market, which has been like this for many, many decades — after women enter the labour market. That's exactly where the government wants to deploy resources. It is in terms of educational choices, how we affect children and young people early in their choices and want in terms of education that we have to invest resources. It's about starting at kindergarten and at school with how we affect the children of other career choices. This is why the government has launched a series of actions related to projects such as Men in Health and Girls and Technology. We also support the project in Agder – Equal Opportunities. And then we just put down a sample where we're going to look at how gender stereotypes affect children and young people's educational choices. Part-time employees are given the advantage of new posts rather than new posts, on a proposal from the government. I read with pleasure in the VG recently that the UNIO leader said, "This is a very good news to get in summer time. Hauglie delivers." It is gratifying that the associations also agree with us and support us. In addition to equal work, the government is concerned with women’s health – research, prevention and diagnosis. We are dedicated to looking at how women in minority settings have the possibility of education and getting to work. That is why we are reforming the introduction programme. We make it possible for everyone to take primary and secondary education in order to strengthen their chances of entering the labour market. We are now also addressing some of the challenges of business.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e401	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e406	The government will look at how the help offered to those who are exposed to sexual harassment can get better, said the Council of State in its statement last week, and that's good, because it's decided the Storting. However, the reality of the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman, which is what this offer is to offer, is, according to trusted budget cuts and redundancies, which will lead to the continuation of discrimination in the labour market without any intervention. The number of employees has dropped from 57 to 37, and after the Storting decision on a strengthened offer, which was made earlier in ours, it would have been natural to follow up on money in the revised, but there was nothing there. Governments talk a lot in their posts about things that are desirable to do, and that should be done, but very little about what the government actually bets of money. This applies both to the equality centres and to the LDO. How does the Council of State feel that the counselling and assistance provided by the Equality Ombudsman should be strengthened and used by more people who experience sexual harassment?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e413	As the representative well knows, the government is investigating and looking at how the Equality Ombudsman can be, to the greatest extent, a guidance resource. We clearly see a need for a place to turn if you are not allowed to follow up your case, and therefore the government is pleased that we are now strengthening the Ombudsman's ability to provide guidance. The Labour Inspectorate and the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman have strengthened their cooperation in the fight against sexual harassment. It is made, among other things: now a web-based guidebook containing practical advice and proposals to prevent and prevent sexual harassment, as well as the development of training materials for employers, trustees and guardians.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e420	These are many good wishes in the response of the Council of State. I have previously tried to get a response from this pulpit to what is the motivation for the equality centres to cut by 1 million. kr. They've done that in the last few years, and the government has not responded to that. So now LDO is being cut, and money is not being put in to increase the amount of work they get. I try again and ask the Council of State: by cutting the appropriations and not by increasing the appropriations for the equality centres and the Equality Ombudsman, respectively, in line with what the Stortinget has actually decided to do in relation to follow-up work on equality – how will there be more equality with less money for two so important actors?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e427	Following the adoption of the budget, Stortinget decided to strengthen the Ombudsman’s ability to provide guidance on issues related to sexual harassment. We in the department are now in the process of figuring out how best to do this, so we will come back to that for understandable reasons. As far as equality centres are concerned, I just had a meeting with several of them, and I am very pleased with the job done outside. We're in a very privileged situation in Norway, because we have a lot of volunteers, and others, who get state aid, who work every day to improve equality. Being in a situation where one must give a strong priority to all the good actions – which non-politicians do – is actually a good thing. But that doesn't mean that the equality centres don't do a good job.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e434	Thank you for the answer from the Council of State. I was not looking for what the others are doing in the field, I was looking for what the Council of State thinks is a good reason not to follow up with appropriations. That's my question. I give the Council of State another opportunity to tell the Stortinget what makes it possible for the Council of State not to grant money to the equality centres – they do not choose to establish more, but it is a different matter – and does not choose to give the Equality Ombudsman the means they need to take care of what the Stortinget has actually decided.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e439	Then I have to try to repeat the explanation. The Government prioritizes its appropriations through the State budget, as decided by the Stortinget, and it is not adopted until October. The strengthening of the Ombudsman’s function related to guidance was adopted only a short time ago. In the case of the equality centres and the 1 million cut. kr, it is not that I should not have seen that they had received more, but there is a priority between many good equality proposals. Then I am surprised that the Workers' Party in the gender equality report debate uses three questions in a cut of 1 million. to equality centres where we have challenges related to women’s health, related to women and minorities, related to body pressure, related to a more equal working life and related to better educational choices to change all of this. The working party has a very one-sided approach to the equality debate and has lost some grip, it looks like.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e446	The Council of State was to a lesser extent in terms of pay differentials and equal pay in the distribution and, in particular, in its contribution here today. Well, pay differentials and equal pay are central to equality, and that's probably the most central point of all. According to 2016 statistics, the average monthly salary for women was only 86 pst. of men's wages. Although it is forbidden to discriminate when it is due to pay for equal work and position, it is likely to be perceived differently outside. They say a lot of words about prevention, but it will also require action, in our view. So the question to the Council of State is based on the two proposals that will be put forward during today and tomorrow – for the first statutory equal pay, cf. what has happened in Iceland, and tomorrow there will be a proposal on the right of withdrawal for men of parental leave. The question is: will the Council assess this type of proposal, which is both targeted and correct?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e457	As the representative himself refers to, there is no law on pay discrimination in Norway. I am very pleased that the differences between women's and men's average wages have decreased from 2015 to 2017. It shows that we're going in the right direction, and that's why we're going to do more of what this government is doing. Then we are engaged in a more equal education and labour market, and that is why we need to develop a strategy to contribute to that very thing. We continue Competencelift 2020 for the women-dominated professions, including: in the nursery and care sectors. The government is also well-informed to make several successful projects nationwide so that we can also change educational choices. All of this shows that we are contributing to a more successful development than we have seen in the past. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e468	There's no time for speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e474	Governments pointed out in their statement that the world is moving forward – fortunately. But I want to ask the Council of State how much the government has contributed to this in its equality policy when it has proposed to cut equality centres every year, when it has removed the federal quota as one of its first steps in government, and then come back several years after the Storting made the request decision on it last year, when the staff of the Equality Ombudsman has been cut by more than 30 p.m. under the Civil Government, when the Government Party simplified the obligation of presentation for 90 p.m. by enterprises and when the government’s new anti-discrimination law, according to the Equality Ombudsman himself, has been weakened. The most positive thing is basically, when I think about it, maybe the government made a record in the March 8 trains when it proposed a reservation right against referring to abortion. Is the Council of State satisfied with this effort?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e481	I am very pleased, even though representatives from the Workers' Party in this room tweeted after the statement that the arrows do not go in the right direction. They're doing it. We now see that we are climbing one place from 2016 to 2017 at the World Economics The Global Gender Gap Reports ranking. We now see that Norway is ranked number one at the UNDPs Gender Development Index for 2016. So the numbers and the statistics show that this is going to go forward. I think we should agree that we have some common challenges ahead, but we should also bring along what is good, not black paint. I'm proud that we work systematically in every field. All departments are working to improve equality [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e488	It's about time. The cord shift is also over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e495	This government often talks about equal opportunities for everyone, but is strangely passive when it comes to the piece. The right-wing parties seem to hesitate to pursue an active policy. But equality doesn't come of itself. The Labour Party is willing to use policies to move forward, and it is needed in many fields. It's always so that gender limits human opportunities. Individuals as well as society are losing weight. Early learnt gender roles affect the choice of education, profession and job percentage. We still have one of Europe's most gender-based labour markets. Women continue to enter traditional women's homes, work more often part-time, earn less than men and get less as pensioners. Women also participate less in society — they do not have as many positions of power as men. Only 7 out of 100 top executives in public limited-liability companies in Norway are women. Women are in a clear minority among professors and are less visible in the media. The proportion of women among political leaders has remained almost silent in the last 20 years, and only about 28 pst. by the rapporteurs in Norway, women. In return, women do the most domestic work and still take the most responsibility for unpaid care. These imbalances are maintained by culture, structural conditions and, of course, by politics. The Solberg government has been passive on the one hand, on the other hand, taking the equality back, such as by going in to extend the cash support, cutting the spring quota, and allowing permanent residents to reserve their reserves for reference to abortion on the other. Equal opportunities Norway requires a willingness to change and strong policies – debate, awareness-raising work, policies that change framework conditions and laws and organise educational, labour and social life. This work must be based on knowledge again. To do something about evolution, we need facts and numbers. How are opportunities shared between women and men? What is the status of the home, the working life, the media, the municipalities, the state? These kinds of questions were easily answered by the public via the Equality Barometer and subsequently by LDOs SaLDO. No longer is a single, easily accessible annual statistics on gender equality published in Norway. That, I think, is a serious deficiency, which I urge the Minister for Gender Equality to correct, because a comprehensive gender balance makes it more difficult to ignore the distortions of society. For the Workers' Party, equality is a central part of the struggle for freedom. The government prefers equal opportunities to come of their own. It comes out a little bit.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e508	Let me also start by thanking you for a good gender equality policy statement with a broad and inclusive stance. The Council of State shows us that equality games point in the right direction, and at the same time that equality challenges are becoming increasingly popular. The Equality Act is 40 years old, but at the time, equality was mainly about equality between women and men. It is still important today, but many other aspects also need to be given considerable space. The opposition is constantly trying to repeat the message that equality in Norway is set in reverse with the Solberg government. Incorrect claims are not going to be more accurate even if they are repeated to the boring, and Norway is one of the world’s most equal countries. The Council of State referred in the statement to its colleague Bent Höie, and I allow myself to repeat a little from it today: "With more knowledge, there will be less stupidity. We're going to create a society where being normal is not being like everyone else, but being yourself." And in today's Norway it's easier to be yourself. Norway is, for example, one of Europe’s best countries in terms of policies and rights for LHBTIQs. Not least in my employer over 19 years, the Defense, they work well with knowledge, awareness and attitudes to keep this group in its strengths. There are still areas of equality where we have a way to go. One area is religious discrimination, religious discrimination. Here we have still done work to combat racism and hateful expressions. The story of the Citizen train in Kristiansand on 17 May has made me and many sad with me. Here were those who went behind the tab of the Human-Ethical Federation, hottened and bullied along the way in the train. That one should experience this in Norway in 2018 because one believes in something, or does not believe in anything, we cannot accept, and I want to draw out Emilie Hesselberg, who dared to tell about the story in the media, and who after that has experienced a massive and deserved support. If we are to come to terms that we do not accept, we depend on courageous people like Emilie to use his freedom of speech in the fight for freedom. Much has happened in the gender equality field over the 46 years I have lived, and the 40 years of the Equality Act have worked. The challenge is always that social development is running faster than what we often manage to catch up with. That's why sometimes it can be experienced as two steps forward and one step back, but the direction we all agree on. Our most important job in this context is to fight for all those who are not allowed to live free and independent lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e526	Economic autonomy is the basis of all other freedom. There is no real equality between women and men without a fair distribution of power and wealth, without an equal working life. But today's working life is not equal when women only make 87 kroner for every hundred kroner a man earns, and when one in three women still work part-time. Therefore, active gender equality policies are needed to change the unfair structures that detain women from working life. However, in the State Council's policy on gender equality, there was little concrete action for a more equal working life. That is why, on behalf of SV, I want to help the government a little today by promoting three proposals that can contribute to the fight for a more equal working life, where women and men have equal opportunities. Firstly, we will ask the government to come back with the necessary legislative changes to introduce the statutory right to full-time employment. Full-time shall be a right, while part-time shall be an option. In addition, I believe that we should be inspired by the country that has now under this government in Norway gone past us in being the world's most equal country, namely Iceland. There, with SV's sister party at the head, they have introduced their own equal pay law. That's why we're going to ask the government not to introduce an equal pay bill, inspired by Iceland's new law decision, even here. Feminism is about freeing everyone from the oppressive gender role pattern that limits us in everyday life. A group that is particularly hard hit by these structures is the ones that don't fit into the booths at all. Therefore, for a number of years, the biased movement and SV have struggled to introduce a third legal gender option. A short time ago, on behalf of SV and the representative Grunde Almeland on behalf of Left, I received several thousand signatures from Skeiv Youth to introduce this. Now I want to follow up the promises we made, propose to the government to investigate the introduction of a third legal gender option and come back to the Stortinget on a case-by-case basis. Getting recognized as who you are is fundamental. In Norway in 2018, we really should realize that the time has come. Now the Storting can go ahead and finally give those who don't fit into the booths the recognition they deserve.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e539	Today, the Stortinget is given the opportunity to determine the status of equality work in Norway. It's been 40 years since the Equality Act was passed here at Stortinget, and at that time my mother was 12 years old. When I was born, the Equality Act was 10 years old, and Norway had a female prime minister. I think role models are important for gender equality. You should have faith in yourself and your ability to take place, tasks and roles. Role models are then crucial. For young female politicians, this government has enough of female role models with female Prime Minister, Foreign Minister and Minister of Finance, and on the Stortinget we now also have female prime minister. Role models are important for a more equal working life. In the public and state sectors, a good gender distribution in top management positions has been achieved today. However, we need more women leaders and role models in business. The right-wing representative, Tina Bru, problematized the share of women in the board and in the management of Equinor. The new name of Statoil stands almost for ‘equality in Norway’, i.e. equality in Norway. It is then important that the new energy company not only equates all energy sources but also ensures that the company represents the diversity of the population. Young people also need role models — good role models. Not all young boys have a role model at home. Several single-parents mean that the need for male role models outside the home is becoming more important for children. Kindergarten teachers, teachers, school health services and trainers are examples of contact persons, role models, for outsiders. Therefore, it is important that we have a wide variety of applicants and candidates for such jobs. It's a paradox that young boys today can have a whole school career without meeting a male role model. We can't have it like that. It's not healthy for our kids. A segregated labour market with traditional role patterns is problematic in Norway. We're going to have gender-neutral jobs in Norway. A man would probably refuse to apply for the position as a school health sister. The job title itself is discriminatory — the school health service could have had great needs for male role models, which could take seriously the challenges of young teenage boys in school everyday life. It is therefore important to support projects aimed at balancing gender roles in the Norwegian labour market. I feel that this government has taken seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e554	I noticed that the Labour Party parliamentary leader in his speech did not focus on what I see as one of our major challenges, the position of many immigrant women in society. It's really just looking at the statistics. Although you don't want to talk about it very much, they are the lowest represented in terms of participation in the world of work and the highest represented in terms of part-time jobs. You can only look at the Fafo reports. This applies in particular to family reunions, while the new generation is struggling with other challenges and entrenched attitudes regarding the choice of eczema, clothing — not to mention gay and lesbian. Many people in immigrant communities have to hide, as do many in Christian conservative settings in Norway. We've at least made it easier for some transpersons and people who want to change their sex. Today you can actually change the legal gender without going through major operations. The major challenge that I believe the parliamentary leader of the Workers' Party did not address was the growing proportion of poor children. That's exactly what happens when someone in the family is not working, then you don't have the economic income that others have, and you want to stay behind. Children are not allowed to take part in leisure activities, which has been addressed by this government. But this is a challenge. I am also surprised that the former Foreign Minister was not international in the face of the challenges. There are major problems in trafficking, assault on women in refugee camps, kidnapping of young girls by Boko Haram. Here the government has taken an initiative in the UN camps to start both literacy courses, which are organized for women and young girls who would otherwise have cared for children. – No, the focus was, as expected, on fiscal policy, i.e. it was embedded in economic policy, and it was also a visit to Sunday open shops, that it was not promoting gender equality. Well, then you get to work getting more men into that industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e565	A modern gender perspective is open and inclusive. I think the statement to the Council of State and the answers here today show that she just has that perspective. In the government platform, the Jeløya platform, it is clear as a headline that the fight against racism, religious discrimination, anti-semitism, negative social control and prejudices based on sex, sexual identity and ethnicity must be combated. That is the basis for the government cooperation of the Right, Left and Advance Party. Several of the things that are pointed out in terms of sexual identity or gender identity are quite well addressed in the report from the Council of State, but also in the basis on which the government conducts its policy. It has been said that we need to improve sexual education. In the past, a separate strategy on sexual health from the government was promoted, where the prospects of modernising sexual education were addressed, but also the perspective of educating parents and putting in place so that they can guide their children to understand sexuality in a good way. Not least, we must guarantee the rights of the skeptics, contribute to transparency and actively work against discrimination. With regard to a third gender category, this is what the Left has proposed in the past – it has been voted down, so we know how the majority is in this case. What's at the root of this, anyway, is a recognition that this hall has, that there's a need to update how we look at sex. A typical example is public documents, how to set them up. Here is a great job to do that I have good faith that the government is taking hold of. So it was very gratifying for me to hear that the Council of State has made sure that IDAHOT comes to Norway, and that Norway is going to be a host nation for next year. It's a clear international marking. Norway is a country that is at the top of the world in terms of skews' rights, and the fact that we take that responsibility and actually organise and arrange it that week, even though it is the week with our national day, shows that we really have ambitions. I'm glad. Then I am glad that the Council of State at the national meeting of the FRI this weekend also announced that she invited the FRI to attend and arrange this high-level conference. What I'm looking forward to is seeing that Norway can show the rest of the world how to go ahead. I believe that in this area, the Council of State clearly shows its willingness – and that she has the right perspective for implementing the good measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e578	There were no ambitions to trace in the equality policy of the right-wing government and the presentation of the Council of State. The statement did not contain the word ‘ambition’ once in respect of equality. It's having a lot of ambition. Equality games point in the wrong direction with this government to rudder. The working party still has ambitions to take the leadership back. That is why we are impatient and have made several proposals for good equality policy together with the Christian People's Party. We've had a majority for many things, the government has had to follow us. We're making two new proposals today, and more parties are doing the same thing, so we're not giving up. We want a different policy. The government has put equality in reverses – increased kindergarten and SFO prices, increased cash support, Sunday-open shops, more temporaryity, increased normal working time to nine hours and they will limit women's right of self-determination in the abortion issue. Then we get back to the 1970s that the Council of State boasted in its presentation, when the women came out into the streets. And then they've buried the Equality Act, which would have reached the age of 40 this year. I understand from the post of the representative Ørmen Johnsen that she wants a longer list than Jonas Gahr Støre gave in his introduction, about what does not give more equality. I can add a few things: the government has voted down proposals on equal rights of belief and of life's views, now the Stortinget is dealing with a matter of social control for the groups of representatives of Ørmen Johnsen. So we're offensive in the equality debate. The list of issues that the right-hand side has and that counterbalances equality is long. It causes fewer women to get into work. It also leads to an insecure and more stressful day for many women, especially unorganised women in the goods and services trade. Now non-organised women have to work one hour longer before they get paid overtime. They don't have very high wages already, and it's clear that this turns out. In particular, single mothers are hit with dependant responsibility. There is a policy for increasing differences, but there are wild right-wing policies and policies that distinguish the right-hand side and the left-hand side. It is a policy that increases the differences between women and men. Norway is falling on the gender equality index, and we are going in the wrong direction. Norway is no longer the most equalised country in the world. The government's lack of gender equality policy is also poorly new to many women in the world who have been on Norway, who have shown their way to Norway, and who have looked up how Norway has chosen to go ahead and take a steep path. The ambitions of the government are as poor as a starved leech — no food for the equality work of this government. It can be established.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e593	First to the representative Morten Wold, who criticized the left-hand side of Norwegian politics because – if I understood him correctly – he felt that we did not want women to live free lives. I do not know whether this is a parliamentary expression, but I must be allowed to say that it is deaf. The whole historic equality struggle was about that, giving women free life, and many of the decisions that were taken along the way were taken against the Right and the Protest's votes. We have repeatedly submitted proposals in this room that would have promoted equality much more, and we would have been much further ahead than what we see today, so to come and say that we are not concerned that women should live free lives, become – President, I try another word – nonsense. So to the Council of State, which was obviously engaged and had so little political rhetoric left in the change of line that the argument was finally that the Workers' Party had lost its grip on the equality issue – this because the Council of State could not answer questions from the representative Henriksen. One might wonder who has lost the grip of the equality debate, because how is it possible to believe that equality goes right when a kutter in the father's quota, the equality law is weakened, the right to reserve abortion became a big issue, and the equality centres are weakened, to mention something? A visit also to the representative Örmen Johnsen, who is also trying to present it as if the Workers' Party is not concerned with child poverty or international women's struggle: of course we are, but today it is also about what we are doing in Norway. I just point out that the Workers' Party now has two proposals here, and it is important in the gender equality fight in terms of economic differences, it is important to reduce the proportion of part-time workers and to strengthen the full-time culture in Norway. Then we'll see if these proposals get a majority or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e605	The President would point out that if one is in doubt as to whether an expression is within the parliamentary vocabulary, it is recommended not to use it. The President would also point out that both 'doubt' and 'customs' are not parliamentary terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e612	I have to take the word to clarify some claims from the Workers' Party that unfortunately turned out to be false, and that is only the Workers' Party. First of all, the representative Henriksen refers to an index that I can't figure out what is, so it almost has to explain Henriksen – what place we're in, and how we've sunk on that index. Secondly, the representative Henriksen claims that our policy leads to fewer women getting into work. I would like the Labour Party to explain how they can make such claims. Thirdly, the Workers' Party claims that equality is going in reverse because we're cutting in the feather quota. Unfortunately, the Workers' Party, it was not you who were delighted to present the historical parental death penalty scheme that was just presented. Father has never had a greater spring quota than he now has after 1 July, and it is due to the Right, the Advance Party and the Left – not the Workers' Party. The cut that was made in the Equality Ombudsman was made because we moved hereafter to Bergen. It was not a cut to weaken the equality work, of course. It was because the Stortinget agreed that it wanted to establish this denominator in Bergen. The claim that there is no longer an annual overview of gender equality is also incorrect. The Directorate for Children, Youth and Family publishes statistics on gender equality. When the Labour Party today says that equality in Norway is going in the wrong direction, it is wrong. Now the Workers' Party must begin to fill its equality policy with something other than empty rhetoric. Now, year after year, they've stood and hammered off the fact that equality goes in reverse, and then the results show something completely different, so it falls on rock bottom: fewer people work part-time. Differences in earnings have been reduced. We do more to prevent women from being subjected to violence in close relationships. We focus more on young people taking other educational choices, to get a less sex-segregated working life. We're betting on women's health. We put in several measures to ensure that immigrant women get a job. Now, the Labour Party must be involved and contribute positively in the gender equality debate, participate and see that now we also need to do something to change attitudes, for example. When we look at the metoo campaign. Yes, there the government is now implementing a number of measures. But this is not least about attitudes towards men and women being equally worth.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e625	I would like to answer some of the questions. I didn't get everyone with me, but it was at least a question of which statistics I refer to, and it's the World Economic Forum's Global Gender Gap. There we can read that the differences between women and men under this government have fallen. In 2013, it was 84.17, in 2014 it was 83.7, in 2015 it went up to 85, and in 2016 and 2017 it goes down – in terms of the differences between women and men. And it is significant that the Minister for Gender Equality is more concerned with criticising the Workers' Party for not doing anything, when he himself is fully and completely responsible for formulating gender equality policies in Norway. Among other things, we have made with more than 50 equality proposals, 23 or 24 of which were adopted with the votes of the Christian People's Party against the votes of the government. It is quite strange to hear a government that in the field by field gets criticism from business partners and from employee organisations to not do enough, and then it should be the ideal thing. I just repeat that the statement by the Council of State on equality was bloodless. It was a list of the measures that have been taken, which have been proposed, which are under way. There was nothing new. Well, by the way, there was something new: there were even more meetings, there were some dinners, and then I think there were some conversations around a table, and maybe an investigation or two. I think that was some of the new things. Otherwise, it was thin.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e638	This is a very strange performance by the Workers' Party in an annual equality debate in Stortinget. I don't think it's just me that's making me think about it. The representative Henriksen referred to now, these statistics in the index, are wrong. Norway has moved from third place to second place in this index. A statement is about informing what the government is doing — what results are being achieved, and what work is being done in the field of equality. A lot is happening, and it's done in the equality field since 2013. We're in the process of doing a lot, which I used my statement to inform the Storting, so I'm not going to repeat it. I'm very happy that the numbers and the statistics show that we're well on our way. We are one of the world's most equal countries. But we still have our challenges, and we're going to work together on them. When the Workers' Party takes that tone – that the government is running a gender equality policy that goes in reverse – I just think it's strange. The last time it was a ranking of the parties' equality efforts, such as: The NRK made 27 February 2017, the title was ‘Ap at jumbo place in equality’. Here it was found that when the NRK looked at the number of women in all parties, they found out that the Workers' Party ended up in jumbo place, where 2 out of 19 heads of state in the Workers' Party are women, and 69 of the rapporteurs are women. The Labour Party loves to attack the Advance Party because they're so bad, but they're even under them. I am not saying that the Workers' Party will come up with new measures, nor is it accusing the Workers' Party of not making proposals in the equality debate, as the representative Henriksen refers to here. But I encourage the Labour Party to be sober in this debate and stick to the facts. I think everyone deserves that. Then, on their own, the government parties will be very well prepared to promote good, constructive equality proposals, which will lead equality in the future, as it has done for many years. We're going to work systematically in many fields. We see that gives us results. We need to strengthen them further. The statistics and the figures are very clear. They're not lying.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e651	I had to go straight into the World Economic Forum and search to find out what location Norway actually had. And it's quite true, as the minister says, that Norway has systematically been in the first, second and third place on the ranking. Right now we are 0.002 pst. from the country that is over us on the ranking. I hope the Workers' Party can explain how increased support for the equality centres will turn on that ranking.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e656	The representative Kristin Örmen Johnsen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e661	This became a debate with a little bit of temperature at the end, but I think we actually deserve to say that we are doing well in Norway, and we will continue to do so. Equality debate is about more than ranking. In fact, the Labour Party's parliamentary leader said so. Even I believe that in this debate we have focused too little on what is really the challenge in Norway, and it is those who do not. So I think in words like ‘revers’ and ‘bloodless hedgehog’ it's end of the arguments. Rather, we should address the measures of those who really need it, those who are at the bottom of the political table, and there are actually many immigrant women.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e666	The representative, Kari Henriksen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e671	I understand that the temperature is rising when you get some facts on the table. It's about more than ranking – yes, it does. It's about action, and it's about ambition. I have not heard one ambition from the government parties from this pulpit in this matter today. That's what it's all about -- moving on from where we are. The working party has never been happy to be where we are. We have proposed new things all along, including from our role as opposition party. What we're seeing now is that it's going in the wrong direction. When low-paid women have to work an extra hour before overtime, it helps to increase the economic differences between women and men. That is the reality of this government's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e684	The representative, Mr Almeland, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e690	It is gratifying that we can discuss so freshly a topic that is so important. But I just want to remind this room that there are several concrete actions that have been taken and that we are working on. The most concrete thing is exactly what we are going to debate in the Grand Duchy in a very short time: the third of the parental leave, which is a very ambitious and good arrangement that the government has really lifted up in a fine way. Then I would also like to say that there are several concrete measures that lie in the pipeline, which we know will come to pass. But then what I said in my first post is that the equality challenges change over time, and in order for us to find good, accurate measures, we also have to make sure that we do a thorough job of investigating the measures, so that we get things that we know work, and not things that we might have a notion of working in a completely different society, 40 years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e699	The representative, Freddy André, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e704	High temperature about an important theme we just have to look at as positive. But I want a comment, because several of the government parties have hit their breasts a lot lately with the introduction of three-part parental leave. It's positive, but using it as the big example of the left-hand argument is a little bit strange, when the background for the introduction of the three-part parental leave was just a request decision that took place here in this room during the throne debate, so the opposition asked the government to reverse the cuts in the spring quota. So I'm very pleased that the government is once again following the Storting's will to strengthen equality policy, but it was once again a request decision that underpinned the equality policy pursued here. There are also many other examples — the duty of activity, and also measures against sexual harassment.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e713	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e729	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e738	The aim is for all children in Norway to be protected against care abuse and care failure. Failing children shall be guaranteed quality offers, care and protection. It is important in this case that an overall committee supports the organisation of care and services provided by the protection of children so that children and their carers receive early, necessary and not least coherent assistance. They shall receive follow-up and assistance. The resources we have at our disposal must be used efficiently. Child protection shall also prevent care failure and take further action if the situation of the child indicates that it is necessary. What we are discussing today is: Who is going to offer these services to the children who need it? The choice of institutional space for each child is made through the Bufatat Intake Centre. The offer shall be in line with the needs of the child, as described by the municipal child protection service. This is a starting point for each individual placement carried out in an institution. Municipal and state child protection has used private actors, both non-profit and commercial, for several years to achieve this. In 2015, the country concluded a cooperation agreement with non-profit providers on the provision of both health and social services and of child protection services. Follow-up to the agreement shall take place, inter alia: through a plan of measures to improve the framework conditions of the ideal child protection providers. Ideal establishments are important providers of child protection services. These have a high level of competence and a high level of commitment. In recent years, the government has strengthened the ability of non-profit actors to first publish institutional sites in a sheltered bid for non-profits in 2015, with a greater number of guaranteed locations than before, and that the ideals have also participated in the open competition for the remaining places. We want to bet on the ideals. The government should therefore continue its own tenders for non-profit institutions serving children’s protection. In addition, the government should also consider how volumes can be reserved under the legislation for non-profit providers selling foster home services. Private institutions are subject to the same quality requirements as State institutions, on the one hand, by being authorised under the authorisation regulation, as, inter alia, requires institutions to operate in accordance with quality regulations and quality requirements. It's County Control. There is currently no knowledge that there are systematic differences in quality between public, non-profit and commercial institutional measures. There is no knowledge of quality differences between the services offered by non-profit, commercial or private actors respectively. Therefore, any prohibition on the use of commercial operators cannot be justified by the fact that the offer is not good enough. When a ban will reduce the diversity of actors in child protection, it is difficult to identify the benefits that the Workers’ Party’s proposal will bring. Private operators have provided services since 1991. It concerns housing, family homes, foster homes and institutions. The private services have approx. 2,800 employees, and they have laboriously built up skills over many years. This will disappear and wetter if the service is terminated. Government parties also record some concerns about private child protection services. It is necessary to ensure that private actors use funds in a way that is consistent with the best of their children and that resource use is effective. We therefore believe that the government should address the need for private child protection services and assess regulation and other measures for the use of private actors. The government should also consider dividend-related relationships. A sudden change in the structure of offers will affect children. It will create uncertainty for employees and not least for the most vulnerable children. Many current framework agreements run until 2020, with an extension beyond that. Therefore, we strongly advise not to do anything about this before the agreement period has expired.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e759	Thank you to the President-in-Office for letting us through this matter in the Committee. The Labour Party believes that placing children in institutions and assuming responsibility from parents is a serious step in the life of children and parents. It's the most serious interference a state does to its inhabitants. Here, the great cost for both children and parents, and the important task we have, is to facilitate the least possible – yes, the goal must not be any – to experience this. Taking responsibility for these families and the children is our shared responsibility. Right-wing criticises us for being ideological. Yes, we are. Our ideology is linked to giving the children the portion of the community's resources to which they are entitled. The right and Christian People's Party will provide foreign investors with the money they have invested, leaving profits in investor companies. This is ideology. It is a policy that we believe increases differences and does not lead to as good a service as the children and their families need. There are challenges in child protection, there is no doubt about it. And they have to be solved. To make it happen, profits must go to them, not to the investors. Ideal child protection is an important element of a comprehensive and demanding service. Children need diversity and continuity, which NPISHs deliver. Ideal Children's Protection Forum, the Church's City Mission, Adults for Children, CRUX and the National Children's Association are all positive to the Workers' Party's solution and proposals in this matter – not because they are talking about their own cake, but because they have been committed to helping others over the years. Their social exposure is not about profits or disposals, but about a marriage commitment and a desire to contribute to those who need someone. They're making up, they're stretching, they're idealists. And they deliver on quality. These are worried, and their concerns choose the right-wing government at all not to listen to. Just listen to what they say: Adults for children support the whole-hearted proposals. They represent a necessary change in course where children come into focus without profit, says the Ideal Children's Protection Forum. The commercial device does not promote cooperation for the benefit of the child," says CRUX. In recent years, we have experienced more and more challenges related to the outsourcing of competition, says the Church's Bymission, and adds: The diversity disappears. Under this government, joint solutions are being built down, and the Right and Government ideology is clearly that it doesn't matter who is responsible for these children. And we see the outcome of this policy. The share of non-profit actors is falling, and the share of commercial players is increasing. Commercials don't lead to increased diversity, as the right parties say. The number of people is getting smaller. The big ones buy the small ones. In welfare policy, the market is a poor man, but a good servant, and right-wing government makes the market master in children's houses. They are not concerned that our tax money earmarked for the care of these children is being sucked into accounts abroad. They are not concerned that the diversity of the sector is diminishing and that commercial actors are shifting profits from action to children for entirely different purposes. They are not concerned that diversity is being reduced because non-profit actors have to throw in their handkerchief because they do not have administrative resources to deliver on all this bureaucracy right-wing policy. We see that the policy of right-wing government in this area – including in this area, I would say – is a policy that many actors do not want. It is a policy that helps us get more bureaucracy and that we get a child protection that does not promote quality. In the past, the public and the ideal actors agreed to improve quality. Now we see that it's beginning to evolve into business secrets. This is a direction in which the Workers' Party is not at all comfortable. We have therefore put forward proposals that go in a different direction, and we want to phase out the commercial ones. But the cats are out of the bag. The beautiful promises and beautiful words about ideal and voluntary partnership with the state are not worth the paper it's written on. Practical policy shows us – even today – something else. I would like to address the proposals which the Labour Party is behind in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e778	The representative Kari Henriksen then addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e783	The proposal we are debating today, promoted by the opposition, can have major negative consequences for those who need it the most, namely children who are at risk of care failure and with the need for good forces to care for them. Children's protection depends on the best offer we can give them. The offer is neither better nor worse depending on whether it is private, non-profit or the public that delivers it. We have seen that child protection in Norway has major challenges, regardless of who is the provider of the service. Children under the care of child protection must not be made into caste balls in an ideological struggle from the darkest red-green side of Norwegian politics. Let me therefore make it quite clear: for the Progress Party, it is very important that child protection offers the best possible quality. It doesn't matter to us whether it's private, ideal or public that operates the offer. That is why it is also reassuring that the Council of State, Hofstad Helleland, has announced a review of the actors and agreements in private child protection, so that we may be able to stop this debate once and for all. That is why I am also a little stated when I see the representative proposal, which makes the private providers fundamentally suspicious. [[...]] It is written: ‘a desire for profit is more important than the best of the child’. Where did you get those scary pictures? Does that mean that we have to assume that any desire to make money to offer any society needs is immoral? Does that mean that those who work in private child protection are immoral because those who make money to care for children who need it? Several proposers were in government and administered for years the same system of private, non-profit and public enterprises and tendering systems. They realized enough that it was quite unrealistic to put in place a system that actually gives young people in child protection a good offer, where private and ideals constitute the most necessary supplement to the public. They probably realized that it's not common for large profits to be taken out, and that when that happens, it's probably the exception rather than the rule. They realized that it is not immoral to have a company that has a plus on the bottom line, while at the same time doing public tasks. So in the opposition, it's different. Now we see that the same representatives are trying to demonstrate that private companies are actually allowed to go with profits. Unfortunately, we see that the same crusade that is being waged against private actors in the field of child protection is also going on in other sectors. In Oslo we see a headless movement of the elderly from well-functioning private hospitals and nursing homes. The elderly are moved solely because the housing they have, what they call home, is run by private actors. In Oslo it has gone so far that even the nursing home driven by ideals is not «righteous» enough for the darkest of the red-greens. Is a public hand friendlier and a public heart warmer than the privates? Of course not! I believe in a society where we provide the best possible services for our citizens, and where there is the quality of service that matters, not whether it's public, private or non-profit. In fact, I thought that a formerly responsible governing party had also understood that we need to use all the good forces to solve society's tasks. It is therefore intended to have to admit that it looks as if the left wing of the Workers' Party has now been turned further in its direction because you obviously do not want anyone to make money. So in an attempt to stop this, you're willing to make everyday life even more difficult for some of the weakest in society. It's sad.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e802	First of all, I would like to thank the Labour Party for making this proposal. Child protection is still in the searchlight, and there are issues that give cause for concern, ranging from how children are treated to how child protection is organised. Despite the increasing intensity, we experience critical aspects of child protection. This only illustrates the complexity and difficulty of the field. Of course, we're going to put a lot of effort into working for a child-restraint that's well-managed for its community mission. One cannot repeat too often that the commercialisation of welfare services has been a challenge. It's a development in which the community's values go to private, commercial actors. Over the course of five years, commercial child-resistance services have been sold for over 13 billion. kr. There's no small sum we're talking about. The centre party wants central public services to be driven more by the public. It applies specifically to the protection of children. For the child protection sector, we would also like to see a larger element of ideal actors. We mean it's time to scrap the supply system. The centre party wants safe, far-sighted and qualitatively good services. In a supply regime, it is about delivering services as efficiently as possible and keeping costs down. Human needs become invisible. Today's bidding system poses a danger of selecting unprofessional operators that undervalue services, for example. by having poorer working conditions for those added or inadequate services. The bureaucracy required to deal with the supply system is extensive. Costs associated with the bidding round must be taken into account in the competitive outsourcing of services. The centre party believes that today's supply system should be decommissioned in favour of long-term quality-based contracts. Therefore, together with the SV, the Centre proposes to end the use of competition and supply in the child protection sector and to ensure that private, non-profit-making enterprises secure long-term agreements with the public. We shall then put forward a proposal No. 3 as indicated by the Centre Party and SV. We will also signal subsidized support for proposal No. 2 from the Labour Party and SV, and we will support proposal No. 7, from Kari Henriksen on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e815	The representative of Olav Urbø has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e820	We in SV believe that the welfare is there to serve people, not to make money. I think it is quite reasonable to demand that when we grant taxpayers' money to well-being, every single penny goes to welfare for the many, and not to build wealth for the few. I was actually going to think that the Progress Party, which is usually so concerned about the use of taxpayers' money, was also with us and worried about this. But we've seen from this pulpit that they're not. I think child protection is one of the public services where this should have been of course, because child protection should provide security, protection and care for some of the most vulnerable children we have. Children's protection needs predictability, tailoring and professionalism. However, thanks to right-hand policies, child protection is today a market – a market where five large commercial groups have grown massively at the expense of, in particular, the ideal services. There will be no more child protection of this commercialization, there will be only more private power concentration. And four of the five largest are owned or controlled by international purchase funds registered in tax havens. The money to be spent on better child protection offers goes to tropical islands with a lot of mailboxes, to men with already very large fortunes. In addition, the commercialisation of the protection of children also involves a tendering system which provides for unforeseeability both for children and for employees. SV changed this when we were in government, in order to get more security and long-term, but still today children's protection is out of tender. Therefore, for many years SV has been quite clear that it should not be allowed to take advantage of publicly funded child protection, that the tendering regime should be replaced by extended self-regulation and long-term contracts, and that we need to build public institution child protection. SV submitted a proposal for a representative to that effect at the latest at the beginning of this session. Now we register that more and more parties are joining in and agree with SV that we are going to de-commercialise child protection. We're very, very happy about that. It shows that the long fight SV, the trade union movement and other allies have led is ahead. Finally, I would like to stress the importance of the ideal child protection providers. The ideals don't take profit, but let all the money go to a better offer for the children. Actors like the Church's Bymission have been running child protection for many decades – hundreds of years. These actors have an important place in our child protection. We're totally dependent on them. Therefore, the de-commercialisation of child protection is also about protecting the ideal actors, for diversity. SV will build a strong public and ideal child protection service that serves people, and not money. Therefore SV votes for the proposal No. One, two, three. We are voting against the committee's recommendation. In addition, two loose proposals have been made in this room, which is a little bit different about having 40 pst in 7 years. ideal. Here we will vote in a subsidiary way in favour of the Labour Party's proposal. But I would also like to point out that SV will terminate the use of tenders and prevent the commercial from taking advantage, now. Therefore, during this ageing period, SV will continue to promote new proposals to de-commercialise child protection, even if we might have a target of 7 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e837	All children in Norway shall have a safe upbringing and have the opportunity and freedom to create a good life. For those kids who get a tough start, good follow-up is especially important. We need child protection with employees who have the skills needed to deliver quality. Child guards do an invaluable job. Their job is to create security, joy, self-confidence and confidence in the future where the starting point is something else. Our children are the most important thing we have, and those are the ones we're going to put first. My clear opinion is that most people who work in child protection have a real desire to help the children they come into contact with, regardless of whether their pay is paid by the municipality or by someone else, and that the municipalities themselves are happy that there are others who provide child protection services where they do not extend to themselves. The most important thing is that the service is available at the right time and not least that it is good — not who delivers it. As previously stated by the Council of State, commercial institutions are subject to the same quality requirements and supervision as other institutions and no systematic differences in quality have been detected. I have both the understanding and respect that the opposition is taking choice from ideology, but here I have to demand some pragmatism. The left is, of course, also for a strong public welfare offer, but we also believe that diversity is good, so that different people can choose different solutions, and so that innovative and different driven businesses can get on the road and show their way – of course within strict quality frameworks. In this way, public awareness can constantly improve and, not least, diversity is good when the public does not stretch to and does not have the power to make an equal offer itself. I'm skeptical that instead of addressing challenges, one would rather completely cut off all opportunities for this innovation and this diversity. So sometimes I wonder if the opposition prioritizes the public, which is good and good, over the children, which is the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e848	The Christian People's Party is on the side of children, and as the children's representative in this party, it is my most important job to make sure that we are constantly aware of how our policies affect and enrich children. They're not just the future, our children are the present, they live, exist, grow and evolve now. Fortunately, Norway is one of the world’s best countries to live in, even for our children, but even in our country it is a child who does not have it well, who does not have parents or adults who care and take care of them, as all children deserve and are right. It is for these children that we are discussing today who is to provide child protection services and operate institutions, because we want the children to get the best possible quality, long-term and stability in the relationships and care they receive from people in the system. Because even though we're talking about systems, we have to remember that all the systems are for the people, for the children, and that those who work in the system are also people who have to make their assessments and priorities. The Christian People's Party has long been in the fight to ensure ideal growth and ensure ideal actors predictability and long-term framework conditions. For us, it's about the ideals being and still pioneering in the field. They provide, offer their services and, with their value-driven approach, have the child’s best interests in mind and as their first priority. Of course, not everyone who works in the non-profit organizations is saints who never have a bad day at work, but they work in and for a system that has an ideal purpose and therefore will not be profit-driven, as a commercial operator is in greater danger. The public should accept, cooperate well with the ideals and facilitate predictable framework conditions for non-profit-making. We will strengthen this with our proposal on improved dialogue between Bufdir and the ideal providers. The aim is to maximise the continuity of services for children. The Christian People's Party has long tried to get a majority for a decision on a numerical increase in the ideal share. We have reached agreement on targets for growth, but numerical targets are not clear before. In order to achieve a majority for this, we believe it is right to make a compromise in the solution that we are promoting today, which says that ideal growth should not be at the expense of public actors. However, it is important to stress that we believe that it is wrong when the public rejects ideals and builds up new offers that would have been ideal, but so important in today's image of the child protection sector is the development where large commercial operators buy up the small ones. These services are not suitable for tenders and market thinking. That is why the Christian People’s Party also sees that the threat posed by the big commercial ones must be met with new means. At the same time, of course, it is not that all private actors are large, strong and multinational groups. The Christian People's Party still believes it can be most appropriate in terms of quality of services with a mix where private actors are also used, but where ideals have the greatest place. Furthermore, it is important that commercial operators are regulated in such a way that public funds are not misused. After all, we are all pleased that we have had the impression that a selection is now going to take a proper look at it, and I am also pleased with what we are now seeing in today's media picture, that the Minister for Children and Gender Equality has said that she wants to have a review of all commercial actors, and meets that concern in that way. I think that's good, that's very good. The goal of the Christian People's Party is not one of the actors in itself, but the children who are going to meet these actors through the Child Protection System. We know that they need increased stability and predictability in their everyday lives. It is on this basis that the Christian People's Party has promoted the suggestions in the matter that we have made. I have just one small explanation of vote: our proposal No. 6 in the vote to the benefit of the resolution, proposal No. 8, which we've been promoting in the hall today. If our proposal were to fall, the Christian People's Party will vote in a subsidiary way for the Workers' Party's loose proposal, proposal No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e866	The representative Geir Jørgen Bekkewold has addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e871	Red has long been at the forefront of the fight for profit-free well-being, and we are pleased that the Workers' Party is promoting proposals to ensure that funding for child protection goes to the best of children and does not disappear into private profit. Today, much of the care for the most vulnerable children and young people is left to commercial profit-based actors. These companies shall derive the benefit of the protection of children from the protection of their owners and increase the risk that children and young people will not be given the right offer. These are our children, and the community's money allocated to child protection should go right to these children, not to fill in the accounts of welfare professionals who enrich themselves with our tax money, as the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left are in favour. The most important thing about the quality of the provision of services to children is that of those who work in the services. Decent working conditions are essential to ensure that the best people come in. So the civil servants in commercial action are pushing ahead of themselves in the fight for the profit of the owners. It's a frenzy without parallel, because what we're fighting for is that even the people who work in commercial companies today are going to get safe and good working conditions in either public or private non-profit, and that we're not going to have this tender competition that gives price competition for pay and pensions, rather than ensuring the conditions for those who do the job for vulnerable children and young people. Then we hear a touching talk about all the good forces, innovation and innovation. We know that it is the ideal fires that are pushed out of the commercial groups, which the Progress Party, the Left and the Right really are ringing. Just those who have been involved in innovation, new solutions and new methods in the field of child protection are being squandered and bought up by buying-in funds located in Guernsey and on Cayman Islands. This is the reality behind the fine talk to the government parties about diversity – that diversity is destroyed, restricted and threatened by the commercial companies that these parties so hot and touching. What we see is that these parties sacrifice the best of their children on the altar of tender ideology. It's not a beautiful sight. State Council Hofstad Greece today reports full review of private child protection actors, a measure adopted by the Stortinget half a year ago. The power of action on the part of the Council of State is not impressive. Rather, the opposition on the Stortinget must ensure the effectiveness of action in this matter, and that each crown allocated to child protection goes to the best of the children and not to private profit, as we see – unfortunately – with the commercial players today. The National Association for Children's Protection, the Ideal Children's Protection Forum, the Trade Union, the Joint Organisation and For the Welfare State today writes in the Newspaper: «Competition has taken over for cooperation, business secrets prevent the sharing of competences and experience and the growth of tendering bureaucracy. We also learn that economic often trumps professional considerations and the actual needs of children.’ And they add: ‘The protection of children must put the needs of children ahead of the desire of some individuals for a high level of profit.’ This is in agreement with Red. This is the background for the Workers' Party's proposals. This wish shares the Christian People's Party. Today, only the government parties are placing the profits of commercial companies on the needs of child-restraint children. I hope that today the Storting will take decisions that will take us towards child protection, where the money will go to the best of the children and not to these purchase funds in tax havens, which are the reality behind the policy of the Progress Party, Left and Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e896	The representatives behind the proposal want to phase the commercial actors out of institutional child protection. They also want to investigate how commercial actors can be phased out into the other parts of child protection. I'd like to warn you about both. As I have said from this pulpit before, I am pleased that we have a variety of actors that contribute to raising quality, which help each municipality to choose an offer that is adapted to the situation of the individual child, so that the child can be close to his/her network in his/her growth. There is a lot of talk about predictability in this debate. But not for the kids. No one's talking about it. No one talks about the children’s need for security and predictability – all the children who live in these institutions now and who are concerned about whether they should be allowed to live there. The current framework agreement is valid until March 2020, with the possibility of extension until 2022. Whether or not to extend the agreement to these institutions, replacing on a market in one year will create considerable uncertainty for the most vulnerable children, those who are more dependent on stability than anyone. What I'm worried about is whether the ideals have the capacity needed to take over as much as 40 pst. of this offer in such a short time. There is considerable uncertainty as to what the costs of the authorities will be involved. It is also unclear whether we have access to anything in accordance with the legislation. For the Workers' Party's proposal that the proportion of non-profits should increase to 40 pst in the institutions: the problem of setting such a figure is that what it looks like now is not compatible with either EEA legislation, which we have to deal with, or the public procurement legislation. That is why I would strongly warn against the Stortinget taking such a decision, precisely because it would be impossible for Norway to achieve such a goal. What is important to me as Minister of Children's Affairs is to contribute to providing children with an adequate range of services that are of good quality, to providing institutional child protection and geographical distribution throughout the country, and to having foster families in the vicinity of the networks and where the children have grown up. Then we need a variety of contributors. In the case of commercial operators and their phasing out, the government is working. It's true, what's also said from this pulpit, that this has been going on by the government, this is the department very well going on. The public is responsible for child protection in Norway, and then we must also have full control of the activities of private child protection actors. As Minister of Children, I'm supposed to be 100 pst. ensuring that the quality of the offer is good, that the use of resources is effective and that legal certainty for children and families is adequately ensured. Privates are an important contributor, so we are now looking at whether it is necessary to change the legal and economic framework in order to achieve a better use of private children's protection. We have already identified challenges in the use of private actors in child protection. Therefore, I wish we had completed the work before Stortinget concludes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e911	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e916	Today, the National Children's Protection Association, the Ideal Children's Protection Forum, the Trade Union, the Joint Organisation and the Welfare State are writing a joint contribution to support the deployment of commercial actors in the field of child protection. They write: ‘Our justification is based on concrete experience in the functioning of today’s commercialised system.’ Furthermore, they write: ‘In contrast to public and non-profit institutions, commercial operators have a profit target for owners, which is usually non-resident financial funds. With it, the community funds, which were to go to child protection, disappear to private profit. At the same time, the objective of profit may become more important than the best of the child.» And they ask, and this is also my question to the Council of State: doesn't the Council of State see how the whole logic of institutional child protection is changed by competition, profit hunting and business secrets?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e931	Of course, the claims that the Workers' Party now makes about the business secrets of child protection, I cannot say anything but that I want to investigate whether that is true. That's also why we now acquire external expertise: to go down in the accounts, to hear, see and get black on the white if it's true, what the Workers' Party makes out claims. Then I will come back to what assessments I make of the report I get presented. That's why we now go much deeper into the accounts, into the legal and economic aspects of the private child protection actors, than the Stortinget has ordered us to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e936	The council said in its speech that she had not heard anyone talk about children. Then I wonder what room she's been in under the posts that have been presented here today – for everyone who's been to the pulpit has talked about children, as far as I've got with me. The ideal actors have broad anchoring and long experience, they are engaged and have quality. Governments say, among other things: That we will lower the quality when we phase out the commercial ones. I wonder how the Council of State can say that quality is being lowered, when there is no research into whether it is better or worse quality, either in the ideals or in the private. We haven't said that – we haven't said anything about quality. But I ask, does the Council of State mean that all these ideal actors who are on the field don't have children's best interests in mind when they make their judgements?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e943	Of course not, and I have never suggested that either. I am very pleased with what the ideals – and the commercial and the public – contribute. When I'm around visiting the ideals and not least talking to them, I boast of them. The competence and knowledge that they have contributed to developing over many years helps us to have such a good child protection as we have today. But it also has private. They too have developed a great deal of expertise, they have also been involved in and developed institutions that are slightly different from what the state contributes to. They have institutions that young people choose for themselves, because they have qualities that best suit that young people. It is precisely the diversity of actors that enables us to offer a good service to the individual child, no matter where in the country it lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e950	In a look-up in the VG today, the Council of State says that she will conduct an investigation of the commercial child protection actors. Hofstad Helleland says: ‘We have seen examples of large dividends being collected from private individuals.’ She also says that we need to make sure that ‘the community’s money is not going to make people rich, but to care for the most vulnerable children’. I would like to congratulate the Council of State on finally agreeing with the SV that there is a problem that the Community funds are used to build wealth for the few instead of welfare for the many, and not least for the vulnerable children. At the same time, I think she has used some of the SV's rhetoric in that interview – that's fine. In logic, we learn that the conclusion follows from the premise, and when the premise is that there is a problem with the benefit of child protection, the logical end is to eliminate the possibility of profit. If the Council of State agrees with the basic logical argument – or if we need to change the Exphil syllabus. ?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e957	The starting point for the quotes referred to here is just the many claims that are very often made about the private actors. I want to find out if that's true. Not least from politicians there are many claims. We have seen some examples, such as: in the media, about large dividends. That's not what we're going to have, and that's why I want this report and that review on my table as soon as possible, so we can take the debate further based on what the situation actually is in the entire private child protection. Then I have a concern about setting a measurement number so quickly, what it will mean for costs, what it means for the offer of the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e962	I am very pleased that this room, in connection with the SV's representative proposal, decided to examine the flow of money in public-funded well-being and come back with measures against tax adjustment, the use of tax havens, etc. That is why I am interested in asking the Council of State how it works, and whether she can estimate when the Storting will see the result of this work, in the form of a case or a message.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e968	The Minister of Industry is in the process of investigating the entire private sector, including in the welfare sector, and I have taken the initiative to do more detailed work than the Stortinge provided for, in the case of private actors. Here we are now going to work as quickly as possible, and then, based on what appears in the report, I will make an assessment and come back to what form I will report back to Stortinget if it becomes relevant.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e973	As Minister of Culture, Hofstad Helleland is a lion for the proper use of Community funds. Each small receipt was to be provided by the sports stops and checked. That's good. As far as child protection is concerned, if the money we give goes to the best of children and young people, we do not see the same heroic effort to fight for the proper use of Community funds. When we see that profitability is 22-23 pst. for the large commercial groups, far above any other private activity, the question to Hofstad Greece is whether it is not soon apparent to the Right that the withdrawal of funds from the protection of children is a problem which could go beyond the offer of vulnerable children and young people, who need every penny we grant, for a good offer, not to enrich any owners of the purchase fund in tax havens.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e978	That's exactly what the representative Moxnes is now asking, we're starting, and I'm looking forward to the outcome of.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e983	That's the line change. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e990	The debate on this matter has been going on for a while in the public space. Ideology has been a theme, especially for the Workers' Party from the Right and the Advance Party. Let me make it clear that the ideology of the Labour Party is working for the best of all children, and we believe that children should not be a commodity. More than we mean it. Let me, as others have done before me, mention some: SOS Children's Cities, the Church's City Mission, Step Norway and the Salvation Army. And let me quote what the Ideal Children's Protection Forum, which organises 18 membership organisations, says in its consultation to the Committee: ‘In contrast to the ideals, commercial operators have an explicit objective of profitability and profit to owners. It is then obvious that the objective of economic profitability conflicts easily with the objective of providing the best possible services. After a call for purchases in recent years, 3/4 of the commercial share of institutional locations is operated by 5 large welfare groups – more with foreign ownership. Figures from De Factor show that the total turnover in the child protection area of these five groups was SEK 3.2 billion in 2016 with a total profit of over SEK 270 million. Total turnover increased by 1.3 billion from 2015 to 2016. And we're talking about child protection services that are 100% tax funded. In recent years, we have seen a trend that worries us how bids and market thinking affect institutional child protection more and more. Services have been converted into a market with children as merchandise bearing price tags. Competition has taken over cooperation and sharing of skills and experience, and in the cold water we see a tendering bureaucracy that only grows to an extent. We want less bureaucracy and as much money as possible directly to the children. We learn that economic considerations often trump professional considerations and the actual needs of children. And when the price is pressed – which is embedded in a tendering system, there is pressure on the most important resource we have, namely the employees. It affects the quality of services again.» Today we have heard the government parties in this Chamber. Then the question is, do they mean that these organizations are wrong, that they don't know what they're talking about? The Council of State spoke in its statement on predictability and security. Does the Council believe that a tendering system is predictable and safe? It is our responsibility to determine the service arrangements for our most vulnerable children. We want services with children in focus, not profit.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1006	When I was up last, I didn't promote the committee's position on behalf of the government parties, and it probably noticed the president. But I'm going to do that now. I want to start with the fact that the Right in 2013 went to the elections for a society where all the forces were to be used. We just did it because we saw that both ideal and private institutions were in danger of actually being laid down. This applies in particular to ideals, at the time drug institutions and child-restraint workers. Fortunately, we have got a new government, which speeded up the idea of getting more agreements with ideals. It hadn't happened to a new government, and I hope someone in this room will notice. The ideal actors have gained more predictability and a greater part of what we can call a market in recent years. It also applies in the field of child protection. I would like to say that what SV now points out is that there are a lot of children in private institutions and foster homes, and 8 000 employees – I think you're promoting it because you know that it's actually not feasible. I also feel that private people in institutions are talking down. There is no difference in quality — it is not documented — between what is provided in private, non-profit and public institutions in terms of child protection. There is no lower quality, whether in hospitals, kindergartens or child protection. On the contrary, we know, in fact, that many public child protection institutions throughout history have a bad history of abuse. We are accused by Red to push the children in front of us, but I feel that this is what Red himself does by saying that there should only be a few providers. We want a diversity, yes, but we also want to control this diversity, whether it's private or ideal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1025	I should first just say that I also mention the solution that we have delivered in the case, so that it is clear. This debate has shown that the Right has now come up on the offensive again with measures leading to more bureaucracy and more administration. That's not the Labour Party's answer. The progress party points to negative consequences, and that the children become caste balls. I just want to say to the Progress Party that it is a very little nice greeting to the ideal actors and to those who work in public child protection. How children become more caste balls in one or the other service, I think one should be incredibly careful to have opinions about. But we know that in the Yeluia Declaration, this government has determined that it is completely immaterial who operates child protection services. There is a complete disagreement between the Labour Party. The left was up and said “diversity” so many times that I came up: isn’t it a song called “diversity is good”? That's what's weird about this case, that it says both the Left, the Right and the Advance Party, but there won't be any more diversity, there will be less diversity. And that's what's documented, and that's what's so strange: that they keep using this term to create a conflict that actually doesn't exist. The Labour Party has delineated this proposal for institutional child protection because it is the institutional child protection that is the easiest thing to do with, and that is where there is the most commercial use. So we have in proposal No. 2 asked the government to come back into a separate case to see how commercial providers are used in the municipality, and how you can do something about it. In our conversation and dialogue with the ideals, they suggest that a good distribution between ideal and public actors is a 60-40 pst. distribution, which is 60 pst. is public and 40 pst. is ideal. We also listen to them when they say that it is important for the ideals to have a strong state public child protection service. It's also a little fascinating to hear that we're both going to eliminate people and skills, because we're obviously not going to. We have not proposed that those working in commercial child protection should not be allowed to work – anywhere – in child protection. What we want to phase out is profit, it's neither employee nor competence. We're trying to get a majority in one direction. That's what I've been working for all weekend, and I hope it gets in place before we split up today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1044	The representative Kari Henriksen then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1049	I became very uncertain about the Labour Party's proposal, really. If it's based on what the representative Henriksen here said, it's actually wrong, because what Henriksen here said is that there were most child-restraints in private institutions, but it's not. Most of them are in private foster homes – so it's completely reversed by the representative Henriksen said. That is why I am questioning how this proposal is to be understood.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1054	There are a couple of attacks on the left side and on the left side and on the left side that are repeated to the constant in these discussions, and I have to refute some of them. Firstly, it is constantly repeated that we are talking down the employees of private child protection services. We don't. I also find it quite disrespectful to accuse us of this, for one of the most important reasons for this, one of the main reasons why we want to de-commercialise child protection, is that we want to give both the employees and the children more security and predictability – in terms of the job they do, and the services the children get. The bidding regime and the profit that disappears are not good for the competent employees, and it is not good for the children. So the representative attacked Örmen Johnsen SV because we want to wind up the bidding regime and stop the profits in child protection now. Then I just have to tell you that the employees, the institutions, the know-how are not going to smell in the air after we've made it impossible to take out profit. No, on the contrary: I hope they continue to provide child protection services, and that all the money we give to the services, actually goes to the children, not to the Cayman Islands or other tropical islands with a lot of mailboxes. This debate has definitely been repeatedly marked by very strong party political conflict. But I think it's fundamentally reasonable to demand that every single penny of this hall allow us to protect the most vulnerable children in our society, actually go to the purpose for which they were intended, and I think I'm aware that we could have gone to do without accusing each other of both.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1066	The representative, Kari Henriksen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1071	I believe that what we have heard here in this room – I’m not going to use too strong words, but it’s almost that it’s skeptical of mistrust to the ideal actors. What this government is doing now is they're going to get on the track and put down a sample to see if the ideal actors are telling the truth. That is what the Council of State has said from this pulpit, and that is what they have done. This government is pressured from skirmish to skirmish in this matter. This issue has not come this year; it has remained at least as long as this government has been responsible, and also in the past there have been issues related to private child protection. The working party believes it is now high time to get something done. The government has replied that they should look at it, send letters, pick it up, give clear signals. Still, they will do nothing more than create more bureaucracy and bring down more samples.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1078	I feel that I have witnessed a debate in which it is said that the main concern in this case from our right side is that we defend the private right to operate in the field of child protection. I just have to say that's not true. The most important thing for us, the representatives of the government parties in this matter, is that we have good and sound child protection in Norway. It is up to the municipalities to deal with each individual case in the case of child protection and to find out, to get hold of, a suitable and appropriate measure for that child. It was said in this room by the representative from Red that their ideal share has only sunk and sunk, they have been pushed out of private, because there is such a hard market out there. That is not true – the ideal share has increased. In the private sector, the private sector is the largest in the home sector, not in the institutional field, as it is claimed here. The most important thing we do as politicians in this room is to make sure that tomorrow too we have sound child protection for the children who are in the care of child protection, and that we in this room are not involved in creating uncertainty about the services we buy. It is the responsibility of the municipalities to have sound and good administrative procedures in the municipalities. I went through an article in the Municipal Report. There was a barometer of which municipalities bought most processing services from private providers. It wasn't the Right Communes that were at the top of that list. It was Labour Party municipalities that were at the top of that list. I feel that the Workers' Party is also involved in limiting the possibilities of their own municipalities to collect resources to ensure that their rapporteurs have a sound child protection offer in their municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1089	This is a rather demanding debate, and it certainly shows the two previous speakers when they need to clarify the untruths that the Labour Party promotes. It has been done throughout the debate. Unfortunately, I must also clarify an untruth which the Labour Party has promoted in this debate. The working party claims from this that the government should set down a sample to review non-profit actors. That's what they said. It has never been proposed by the government, and the government has never intended to put down a sample to review the ideal actors. It was also said that the purpose of this proposal was to phase out the private commercial child protection actors, where they have the largest share, and that it was in the field of institutional child protection. The Workers' Party is also making a fundamental mistake. That's the exact opposite. It's within the foster families the private is the largest. If what the Workers' Party has said in this debate represents the basis for the Workers' Party to turn around now, and the position they have taken in this field, it is nothing but frightening. I don't need to add any comments to the ideals, because the ideal actors know very well that in both the health field and the child protection field, this government is solid defenders of them. It is also the case that, on the part of the government, we do not use the allegations made in this debate about the commercial operators without further examining them. It's never been done. It was never done under the red-green. I remember from when SV sat in charge of the Ministry of Gender Equality, or the Children's Protection field, together with the Workers' Party: There has never been a greater growth within the private actors in the child protection field – if I remember correctly. But at least when we are now discussing what offer we want the vulnerable vulnerable children in the field of child protection to have, we must at least have a proper knowledge base. We have to deal with the facts, also in the debate here in this room and out in the public. In fact, we need to know a little about the consequences of the decisions, and the proposals from the Labour Party today, I think, are going to be impossible to implement, not least given that this will weaken the offer to the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1106	The councils clearly hear what she wants to hear. She says, then, that the Labour Party throughout the debate has only come up with false truths. In my post I quoted the verbatim from the Ideal Children's Protection Forum. Does the Council of State think that what I quoted is untrue? In addition, she says that the Workers' Party has now said that a sample should be put down to review the ideals. No, it wasn't. Those were the claims, the recordings, what was said in connection with the tendering systems in terms of taking out profits all the way, as they came across from the ideals – and that the Council of State does it is good. We support it. We think it's nice that it should happen. That's a good recording, and that's good, a lot of what the council says to VG today about that. Then I have to make it clear that we understand the difference between foster homes and child protection institutions – just so it's said to what came up in connection with our proposal. It is our responsibility as a society to determine the facilities for our most vulnerable children. Many of those in the hearing, and most of the non-profit organisations, actually support the Workers' Party's Document 8. Ideal Children's Protection Forum says: ‘There is much at stake, especially for the children.’ In addition, they say: ‘IB hopes the Committee will seize the opportunity to get institutional child protection provided by the public with a stronger hand on the wheel than today, in close partnership with the ideals. Then we get a variety of services with children in focus – without profit!’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1127	Freddy André Øvstegård has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1132	Now it is the case that government councils and several government parties have used several of their interventions to attack the facts used by the opposition in this room. The attacks lose all their credibility after previous state council interventions. The Council of State says that while SV was running the department, there was a greater increase in private use than under the civil government. That's wrong. Under this government, the use of private services in child protection has increased by 24 pst. This eternal debate on who has the facts on her side, there are at least two sides of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1137	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox The President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 3 and 4 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1166	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1182	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, we propose to the President that, within the allocated speaking time, three lines be given in response to statements by members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1191	In this proposition, the Ministry of Climate and Environment proposes to amend the Law of 9 June 1978 on Cultural Memory, the Cultural Memory Act. The proposal concerns the amendment of the second paragraph of Section 4 of the Culture Memory Act so that the limit for the automatic preservation of Sami cultural memories is set at the year 1917. There has been a good work in the committee. We really support the assessments that have been made by the ministry. The proposal has been consulted. The date of salvation that we are legislating here today is on the proposal of the Sametinget. The year 1917 has an important symbolic significance for the community, when it was the year they held their first Sami national meeting, February 6, in Trondheim. Today's starting point is that all Sami cultural memories that are over 100 years old are automatically peaced. The closer we get to our own time, more and more human beings set in motion. Thus, the number of automatically peaced cultural memories will also increase over time. The legislative proposal presented in the proposal is supported by the Meldning. St. 35 for 2012–2013, Future with a foothold – Cultural Memory Policy, and the Annual Report of the Joint Council of 2013. In 2016, the Sameting proposed to set the limit for automatic rescue until 1917. The reason for this was that the Riksrevision revealed a weakness related to the Sami cultural memory management: the floating 100-year limit means that the number of automatically saved buildings could increase every year. It was also pointed out that there was no good overview of which Sami buildings were automatically saved. In addition, the Riksrevision revealed that the administration lacked an overview of which Sami buildings would be automatically saved in the future. The Norwegian Institute of Cultural Memory Research was asked to assess the 100th-year liquid limit and concluded in its report that such a large increase of automatically peaceful cultural memories could gradually provide significant leadership for land use and that the number of objects could become so extensive that it would hinder desired social development. In the proposal and in the Committee’s hearing, the preservation of female cultural memories was raised as a challenge, especially in Sami areas, where female cultural memories are normally to be protected under the Culture Memory Act §§ 15, 19 and 20, and thus do not have the same protection as Sami cultural memories. This was identified as problematic. I will discuss this further in a later article.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1206	The next speaker is the representative of Olav Urbø. – Olav Urbø does not seem to be in the hall. Then we move on to the next speaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1211	SV supports the proposal for changes to the autosave limit. But when female cultural memories do not receive the same automatic protection as the Sami, this can lead to the risk of loss of important female cultural memories. In addition, it is difficult to separate women's cultural memories from the Sami cultural memories, because the women's and the Sami culture have been so closely interwoven. Because the protection is so different, there is a lot that should have been registered as both female and Sami, which is currently registered as Sami because this triggers protection. On 7 December 2016, the plenary session of the Sameting decided that the fixed conservation limit should also apply to female cultural memories, under the second paragraph of Section 4 of the Culture Memory Act. SV supports this and therefore supports proposals today to ask ‘the government to come back to the Storting with proposals for a change to the Cultural Memory Act so that the automatic protection of peace also includes women’s cultural memories’.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1220	The representative Freddy André Supreme Court has taken up the proposal he referred to. The representative Olav Urbø was called up earlier, but then he might have left the hall. Now he's back – please, Urbø.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1227	I must only cause that I was out for a little walk. It went a little fast, this one right here.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1232	It's gonna be quick.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1237	Yeah, that's good. Taking care of all the great cultural memories we have in this country is important and is a national task. At the same time, we need to be aware that it is a peacer, has a unique value, and that one is not peaceable in bulk. We must not have a situation in which the volume of peaceful Sami cultural memory becomes so high that it prevents the practice of primary industries and the development of young society. The changes in the law we are dealing with today are automatically related to the peace of Sami cultural memory, which, until now, has had a floating hundred-year limit, which has led to an increase in the number, and it will accelerate. The amendment of the law now sets a limit for automatic peace to the year 1917. This is also consistent with the whole thing's vision. The centre party is sturgeoning this change in law. When it comes to women's cultural memory, this is a very important topic. However, it is natural to take this into account in the new Storing Communication on Cultural Memory Protection. Our biggest concern is that the increase in the number of peaceable protected objects is not followed by the corresponding means. In fact, both in the previous ageing period and in the present one, steps have not been taken, which means that we will not be able to achieve the 2020 targets set in 2005 and confirmed/adjusted in 2013. Formal protection is of little value if there are no resources to implement practical measures. It is only when this corresponds to a real protection. There is a pressing need to provide a new big message on cultural memory protection and new national goals in the field, including: in relation to the issue of female cultural memory, objectives that must be monitored in the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1250	Today, Sami cultural memories that are over 100 years old are automatically peaced, i.e. the provisions cover cultural memories which are at all times more than 100 years old. The 100th year limit for Sami cultural memories was introduced in 1978. At that time, Sami cultural memories from the last part of the 1800s and the first part of the 1900s had a special meaning as historical evidence. This necessitated an automatic protection clause in the law. Today, 40 years after the law was passed, not all 100-year-old Sami cultural memories are necessarily vindicated, as they were when the law came into force. The current rule is therefore difficult to defend from the point of view. In addition, the liquid conservation limit represents an annual significant increase in peaceful features. The large increase will also give a significant lead to land use in the Sámi settlement areas. According to the Council of Consensus, this could hinder the desired development of society. It is on this basis, and through good dialogue and good cooperation with the Sameetinget and the Riksantikvarn, that the government has now presented proposals to change the limit of compliance for the Sami cultural memories. With a fixed limit, it will be avoided that the second paragraph of Section 4 of the Cultural Memory Act captures Sami cultural memories that are no longer of such importance that they should have an automatic legal protection. The change implies that the limit for the automatic preservation of Sami cultural memories is set at 1917. On February 6, 1917, the first meeting was held in Trondheim. This was an important historical event and represents a milestone in Sami history. On this background, the Sameeting suggested 1917 as the intersection of what is automatically peaced, and I agree that it is natural to set the limit to the time of an important historical event, just as the Reformation is the limit of automatic peace of other cultural memories. I would like to stress that younger Sami cultural memories can still be reached in line with the rules of the Cultural Memory Act. In this way, any unfortunate consequences of removing the liquid boundary will be captured. Following the recommendation of the Sametinget and the Norwegian Women’s Association, it was assessed in the initial stages of the legislative change work whether non-Women’s cultural memories should have the same automatic protection as the Sami. This amendment relates to the Sámi compliance criterion. By setting a permanent conservation limit, the automatic protection protection is effectively restricted because the growth of new cultural memories stops. Therefore, whether other categories of cultural memory should have an automatic protection measure has not been established in this context. However, we will come back with an assessment of the cultural memories of women and other national minorities in the announced cultural memory announcement. I would like to conclude by saying that I am pleased that the process between the Sameting, the Riksantikvaren and the Department has been good and constructive, and that the registration project in the case of automatically peaceful Sami buildings has also developed a management plan for these objects.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1269	Then I must thank you for a good report from the Council of State. In the hearing, we were also presented with the challenge of preserving women's cultural memories, especially in Sami areas, as women's cultural memories are normally to be protected by the laws of culture §§ 15,19 and 20. Thus, these do not have the same automatic preservation as Sami cultural memories. The Committee notes that, in this process, the Ministry did not find it natural to make proposals relating to female cultural memories. Nevertheless, the Committee has proposed that the challenge of women's cultural memories should be discussed in the announced cultural memory communication. The Committee has also recorded that there is a work in progress at the Riksantikvaren where female cultural memories are one of the areas of interest for the work of the Riksantikvaren. I think I speak for an overall committee when I say that it is desirable that we should be able to take care of important cultural memories as far as possible, and that women's descendants should be able to take care of their cultural memories. We recognise that there is a special challenge with mislabelling of women's cultural memories, which was also addressed by the representative of the Supreme Court, especially in Sami areas, because objects and tools have been very similar, but have had different means of peace. So even though the bill is about reducing a little too much protection for Sami cultural memories, I hope that this treatment can contribute to a boost for women's cultural memories.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1283	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1299	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, three rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1308	We are now going to consider the proposal of the Christian People's Party on the review of the cross-border rise between «less» and «major» actions in the Cultural Memory Act §§ 9 and 10. The issue raised by the proposers is in particular the challenge facing the agricultural industry, where the Cultural Memory Act prohibits intervention in automatically peaceful cultural memories. A farmer will have a duty to notify cultural memory management when actions are launched that may have an impact on an automatically peaceful cultural memory. The proposers further point out that the Act imposes an obligation on the action holder to investigate under the Culture Memory Act § 9 by planning major private actions as well as by the regulatory plan. Studies may conclude that the measure cannot be implemented until archaeological registration and possible excavation have been carried out. For public and larger private actions, the costs of such investigations shall be borne by the action holder in accordance with Section 10. The proposers point out that in the case of smaller private measures, the costs will normally be borne by the public. It is claimed by the proposers that measures under the obligation to investigate in the case of larger private measures are to a lesser extent covered by the public. There are two proposals in this case, proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and SV, and proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposals are somewhat similar, but both proposals say that we should look at the inclusion of smaller measures – I do not intend to go into the proposals. It is left to the impression that only smaller private measures trigger more State support and that the wording is extended to measures that are currently subject to major private measures. I would like to point out that even larger private actions under special circumstances can be supported by the Riksantik product. The comments and replies from the Ministry show that applications for very high sums are accepted from this pot. I would also like to point out that the government parties in the Jeløya Declaration have expressed the desire to strengthen the Cultural Memory Fund, so that more private owners can receive grants to restore protective properties.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1323	The purpose of the Cultural Memory Act is that it is a national responsibility to maintain traces of human activity as a basis for our understanding and experience of the history that has been before us. But sometimes, as the Christian People's Party's Document 8 proposal points out, the law stands in the way of new construction and development when it's right. Caring for our cultural memories is an important task, and it is necessary – as the proposers also write – to review what is bigger and smaller cultural memories. We in the Workers' Party acknowledge that something has to be done in the field. This is why, together with the SV, we are promoting a proposal to review the coverage obligation of farmers who are subject to surveys under the Culture Memory Act and to consider including ‘extensions and new constructions of operational buildings’ in the provision for ‘minor private actions’. The Committee has previously decided that the government should present a big message on cultural memories. The working party believes that it is natural that this issue should be included in that communication, and that our proposal should therefore be addressed there.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1330	Then the representative Kristian Torve mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1335	Taking care of important cultural memories is an important social responsibility and important to document our history. Most of today's almost 5,850 protected cultural memories after cultural monuments are privately owned – a great responsibility for the individual and a great cost. The most important success criterion for a successful protection is the commitment and financial effort of owners. Getting things alone is too many not possible, and it is therefore decisive that society makes up with economic resources. This proposal is about clarifying how to define extensions and new constructions of operational buildings for general use in relation to the coverage obligations imposed on them according to cultural memories §§ 9 and 10. Today, it is defined as larger private measures. These are measures that are normally not covered by policyholders, unlike smaller, private ones, where costs are normally covered by the public. Operation of gardening is land-required, and the reality is that one can be charged large additional costs of extensions and new buildings, as is the practice of the scheme today. This is, in the view of the Centre Party, an unreasonable financial burden in an industry where the wages of many are under intense pressure. The central party is opposed to the proposal for a representative, where a request is made by the government to carry out a review with a view to the inclusion of extensions and new buildings in smaller private measures, i.e. proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox The proposal will therefore be put to the vote. The central party also announces subsidiary support for the proposal of the Labour Party and SV, i.e. proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1346	The representative of Olav Urbø has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1351	In this Document 8, there are some very good arguments for a review of the rise in the border between so-called smaller and larger measures in the Cultural Memory Act §§ 9 and 10. But in the proposal from the Central Party and the Christian People's Party it is also concluded this way – and I quote from the proposal: ‘provide that extensions and new constructions of operational buildings on common farms are subject to provisions for ‘minor private activities’.’» SV believes that we must first have a review and an assessment before we might take it. That is why we are in favour of an alternative proposal, which the Labour Party representative has also said: «The government is asked to review the coverage obligation in the context of the Landfill Communication on the Cultural Memory when farmers are required to carry out surveys under the Culture Memory Act Sections 9 and 10 and to consider including «extensions and new constructions of agricultural buildings on common farms» in the provision for «minor, private measures».» With that, I urge the representatives of the SV to vote in favour of proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1366	Life can only be understood backwards, but it must be lived longer, said Søren Kierkegaard once. Cultural memories are literally foundations for understanding Norwegian cultural heritage and history. It is important to take care of these, because it provides diversity and gives both us and future generations an understanding of how the Norse have lived before us. For the Left, it has been important to fight for the preservation of cultural memories, and every year we have made an effort to increase the cultural memory budget. This has resulted in, among other things, The premature memory association named Left's program for the best before the 2017 elections. The left will develop mechanisms that motivate the preservation of cultural memories and the preservation of new findings. We can also see that again in the Left's bets in previous budgets, and we can see that in the bet we're doing now in government. As the Council of State has said and announced, the government will present a new big message dealing with cultural memories. It is natural that if we are to take a closer look at this proposal that we are discussing here today, it may have to be included in that work. But there are some challenges to the proposal that exists, and there are, among other things, what goes on smaller, private actions that mainly address private matters involving few persons. Farming is thus a business in the same way as other industries, and it can be seen as very unfortunate to favour one group of traders in front of another. So this is what goes on in general farming and, in general, the introduction of new definitions and thresholds in the law. Where does the limit actually go for what to consider as general? I think you can figure that out, and it makes sense to put these thresholds and these definitions through a possible message that comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1377	For farmers, being in possession of cultural memories on the farm may involve a great economic burden. The guidelines show that the construction of farm buildings does not fall within the definition of a small private measure. Farmers in the land rich in fixed cultural memories may therefore, after today’s practice, be at risk of excessive additional costs to large archaeological excavations by extension or construction of new operational buildings. Today’s rise in the gap between ‘less’ and ‘greater’ measures is difficult to say, in principle, to maintain and weaken respect for the law and its legitimacy. There is therefore a need for clearer signals from the legislator, and this has been addressed by the Christian People's Party through this proposal. It is disappointing that no more parties see that this situation is unsustainable and that it puts some farmers in an unacceptable economic situation. This is not about a legislative change, but just a clarification of the legislation, which is done through circulars. It is therefore difficult to see that this is something that has to be postponed to a big message about the cultural memory field. For farmers who today find themselves in a difficult economic situation because of a cultural memory, it is rather comforting that the issues should be assessed at some future time. Today, agriculture has about 40,000 active holdings, with between 10 and 15 psts per year. of these investments in operational buildings. As expected in areas with many fixed cultural memories, there are annual issues where farmers are required to carry out organic studies before construction is started. In many cases, the costs of an ecological excavation will be so burdensome to the farmer that the economy in development collapses. This is not a desirable set of cultural memory legislation and can undermine the cooperation between public and agriculture in cultural memory management. We have put forward a proposal in this Chamber. I would like to make it clear that if our proposal falls, we will vote in favour of proposal No. 1 in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1388	In the cultural memory management as elsewhere in environmental management, the principle is that the polluter – or in this case the consumer – pays. So someone who consumes a common environmental good has to pay for this. For cultural memory management, it is important to secure the scientific knowledge material by paying for an archaeological study, so that knowledge can belong to all of us. According to the Riksantikvaren’s report for 2017, a decision was taken on State cost recovery for archaeological surveys in 40 cases. This is about a quarter of all decisions requiring the carrying out of archaeological studies. In 2017, the Riksantikvaren made a commitment to state cost recovery in 33 smaller private actions. Furthermore, seven cases were committed for specific reasons to cover government costs. A total of more than 45 million archaeological studies committed to cover State costs in 2017. kr. 15 of the 40 cases with State-owned cost coverage concerned different types of measures in agriculture. Today's practice of the Cultural Memory Act § 10 is based on circulars developed by the Ministry in 2007. The circular is limited to so-called smaller private actions. No corresponding legislation has been developed for specific reasons, but a circular reference has been made to the borderline against public and major private measures falling outside the scope of this circular scheme and is to be captured by the term ‘special reasons’ in the Culture Memory Act Section 10. I believe that what these figures show is that in general, today's system works, so that many people are caught up in the process of cultural memory management and have their expenses covered by today's legislation. The proposal refers to the need for a clear borderline between so-called larger and less private measures in the Cultural Memory Act. This has mainly been done today by developing a circular in 2007 and by deciding on the basis of administrative practices in this area. The rise in the range of large and small private interventions is important because it contributes to increased predictability and legal certainty through the equal treatment of cases. I fully agree with that and believe that today's system places emphasis on that very thing. Nevertheless, the government is going to present a new bigotry message about the cultural memory field. I see it as natural that this topic is dealt with there, and that it is presented to the Storting for treatment. Over 11 years have passed since the circular entry into force and significant experience has been gained with the scheme. It is natural that these experiences should be further evaluated and that it should be assessed whether the practice of the legislation is too narrow. In this way I will be able to make any adjustments to the current arrangement on a broader basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1404	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1409	Some reason why we in the Christian People's Party promoted a proposal for a representative was a concrete matter in Rogaland where a young couple were to build a new operating building. They had been promised grants in BU funds of around NOK 700000, and then they get a bill for archaeological excavations of about the same exact amount. This is an industry that actually bases all the value creation on soil processing, and it is because of it a significant chance of getting away from the problem. Does the Council of State see the obvious unreasonableness of the fact that agriculture based on agriculture is going to be exposed to the kind of public treatment that has taken place here?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1414	I cannot go into the individual case, because the review procedure is in the department and will have a quick decision. With regard to the issue itself, there is the legislation as it is today, and as I pointed out with the figures from the Riksantikvarn, the possibility of providing state support, and this is also done for special reasons. However, what I agree with is that precisely this demarcation can be difficult, and I think it would be right to look at it, whether adjustments should be made when necessary, when we are going to present the planned cultural memory message in 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1421	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1426	The representative, Urbø, has done some good for the views of the Central Party in this matter, but I would also like to make some comments on it, based on the debate that has been held. It's right that cultural memory is important, and that knowledge of those who lived before us is important. But the concern of people who live today and who are trying to create a good everyday life today must not be forgotten either. I respond when I hear the representative from the Left in the debate talking about discrimination against different industries. Clearly there should be discrimination between different industries, for these industries are very different. There's a big difference between establishing a gas station and running a garden and using the ground resource to produce food. I meet many farmers who are frustrated by this – the specific matter that lies ahead of this proposal for a representative. I meet farmers who are told that they can lay the farm on the cultivated land, but where there is unproductive land to build on, it can be a cooking pit, and therefore there is an objection to it. I have met a farmer who asked a pretty good question, and it was: Here someone has cleared a stone before me and put it in a pile, a so-called clearing pipe. Why should it be that people have cleared rocks here before me, prevent me from clearing rocks and developing my own property today? I think a government funding for the prince will reduce the economic burden for the individual. It is definitely in the interest of the big community to take care of cultural memories, and then it is wrong that there are individuals who have to bear burdens. Not least, a stronger state funding will mean that one must give priority to something more than one today. A distinction must be made between what is important to preserve and what is less important to preserve, at an earlier stage than today. And in the situations where it is the one who prioritizes, who also pays, or vice versa – that the one who pays is the one who must give priority – then the will to give priority is often greater. Then it comes out from the setting that the member of the Business Committee from the Christian People's Party and the Central Party have made a comment in the setting to underline the business perspective in this regard. And in all issues that go between protection and use, it's important that the voice of use also be heard.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1439	Government Parties understand the challenge of country coverage in accordance with the requirements laid down in the Culture Memory Act § 9. But we probably don't think the solution is to define farming as anything other than what it is. I would also like to remind you of what the Council of State said instead, of the coverage by the Riksantik product of also larger private measures, for special reasons, and that 15 out of 40 cases have gone to agricultural action. At the same time, we also see that, in the interests of people's ownership and legal certainty relating to property for use, there is a need to review the rise in the borders of the new cultural memory message. That is why I would like to give an explanation of vote here to the President: that the parties of government can vote in favour of proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1444	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1460	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1469	In Document 8:122 S, a representative proposal from several representatives of the Central Party, they ask the government to submit a notification of the Norwegian food industry. Basically, it's a pretty important industry for us as people and as consumers. We are not just once, but several times during the day in some product that the food industry has somehow supplied us as consumers. So it touches us a lot. It is important that it has high quality, that it is good efficiency, and that we as consumers pay a proper price for a product. The starting point is important to have in mind the idea of a large-scale notification or not of the food industry. The second is that this industry is quite challenged in a competitive situation. We have not least seen it in the last six months, as the sugar levy and the challenges associated with it have been a theme in the food industry. Similarly, the import limit of SEK 350 has given rise to challenges for the food industry. So it's an industry that's very competitive, and it's a vulnerable industry. What's amazing about the industry is that it doesn't just affect us as consumers several times a day, it's also mostly present all over the country, and it employs a lot of people. 51 000 people are somehow linked to a land-based industry, whether it be the seafood industry, the beverage industry or the food industry. So it's a major industry for Norway. The Committee held a seminar on the examination of the proposed document 8, and the seminar, in which the various actors in the food industry were represented, expressed the consensus that there was a need for a comprehensive communication on the food industry. The seminar also stated that the land-based food industry should not be stopped, but also include the sea-based. There are relevant issues that could have been highlighted in such a big message: recruitment, competence, research, digitisation, robotization, investment needs in the future, competitive conditions, etc. – precisely because it is important for us as a nation and as consumers that we have a competitive power in the food industry that is carrying on over time. A big message could thus have contributed to making important premises for the future. It was surprising that when we started to deal with this in the committee, it turned out that there was no majority for such a big message. Some thought it was unnecessary that we had had a big message about the industry and that the general framework conditions might be the most important. The second was that we should have a trade notification and that in the trade notification it would be natural to affect the food industry. I don't think any of those answers are good enough. I think the food industry deserved a big message of its own, and not least that one through the big news had drawn up important assumptions for the future. It is a pity, therefore, that today we do not gather in the United Kingdom to ask the government to make such a big message – about a food industry that is extremely important to us as consumers, but also to us as a nation and country, not least because it is part of a complete value chain for processing, among other things. food. On that basis, I am disappointed that, for example: The Christian People's Party does not participate and supports this big message. But we have to live with that. I hope, however, that we can support the minority proposal promoted by the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, because I think it is very wise to get a big message about the food industry, which is so important.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1486	The representative of Terje Aasland then addressed the minority proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1491	The food industry is a very important part of our business. It is the largest mainland industry, and it embraces the production of food from sea and land, as well as a significant production of beverages. For both aquaculture and agriculture, a solid food industry is an important part of the basis for production. To a large extent, what is good for business in Norway is also good for the food industry in Norway. In recent years, simplification work has been carried out to save business for 15 billion. NOK, and we have committed ourselves to facilitating further simplifications that will save 10 billion. kr. This, of course, also benefits the food industry. Furthermore, the tax policy mechanism is such that it also contributes positively and gives industry greater predictability and more competitive conditions. In other words, the sum of our business policies benefits all the actors. However, sometimes it is such that you need a little more depth in individual areas, for example. a flashing message gives rise to this. It is therefore commendable that the proposers have discovered this area, but it is, to borrow an expression from our honoured competitors, too little, too late. There are already two reports by the Stortinge for treatment that have affected the food industry. One het Industrie – greener, smarter and more innovative, and the other one named Change and Development – A future-oriented agricultural production. These two, together with the notified trade notification, provide the basis for saying that the area is already well covered by wholesale notifications. There are also other processes that address some of the industry’s challenges. Among other things, we are going to deal later today with a case of law on good trade practices and investigations of different measures. Furthermore, there have been recent consultations on two different investigations. The first report on barriers to establishment in the daily food sector was an inquiry into the possibility of creating an intervention centre against unilateral acts. So there are many different processes and messages that, together with food-friendly policies in recent years, provide the basis for saying that the food industry and its framework conditions are well-managed and are an area of continuous work. I assume that the government will gather the threads of the two mentioned investigations and also look at the investigations that we are asking for later today, in the context of making decisions on balanced power in the value chain for groceries. It is also expected that the forthcoming trade notification will address those areas which may not already be covered by these investigations and the two addressed wholesale notifications. The vast majority of the sectors in Norway are in the middle of a major shift. It's demanding. In order for the food industry also to cope with this transition and continue to drive innovation and development, it is important that we continue to adapt the tax system to promote growth and conversion, as we have now. I'm glad that Stortinget can also be involved in simplifying and improving. It would be old-fashioned to ask for extra work in an area that is already so well covered. Rather, we can use taxpayers' money and public resources in a much better way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1512	The response from the Council of State in this matter shows that over the last ten years, the food industry has grown up and had 3,600 new ones added. Other industries have had a fall of more than 30,000 added. The Minister of Industry then concludes that the overall framework for the food industry is good. It shows the difference between how Right thinks and how the Center Party thinks. We think that when part of the industry has grown, we must make sure that we can strengthen it because the decline in other industries is so great. We need to focus on growth where there are opportunities for growth. It is a fact that industrial production in Norway is falling. Then we should come up with a political response to that. In the industry notification, the food industry — consisting of 50,000 added and having a translation of over 200 billion. kr – treat in one section. It's a section where the government says quite easily that the food industry is turning to a national market. The national market is bounded, and in fact that's what he had to say about it. The centre of the board thinks that a hard part of the food we use in Norway has been imported. Can we make sure that a larger part of the production takes place in Norway? The committee had a seminar in which we asked if such a message was desirable. We got a very clear response from the industry: Yes, it is desirable – an industry that has fueled on the bulk of its finn-on-policy, where a late night came up with a sugar levy that hardens them, and that in connection with Article 19 of the EEA Agreement and the phasing out of Jarlsberg exports in the WTO, one promised expensive and sacred remedial measures, and then one saw nothing happening. I understand that the industry wants such a message. It is an industry that exists in the whole country, starting from primary industries, which are complete value chains. Then you should open a separate message for this. I understand that the government party does not want this. But what to me is the big mystery in all of this is: What is the Christian People's Party thinking about in this case, which is afraid to have a common policy for the food industry? I think it's embarrassing, and I thought the excuses and explanations with other messages are bad, because the core area of the food industry is not, and will not be, treated in any of those messages. The centre party is in favour of the law of good trading practice. The centre party is in favour of a large-scale notification of trade in goods. Yes, even the Center Party suggested that we have it. The central party has the approach to politics that we should look at this together. We shouldn't come up with a decision a late night around the negotiating table when you start getting really tired and need to cover the expenses. A job needs to be done properly, and the Storting needs to take care of this together. I was hoping to do that for the food industry. So the government parties and the Christian People's Party will have nothing of it. Then the Central Party has no choice but to come back with a new proposal, where we go through the measures that we think are desirable for the food industry. There will be a long list of concrete actions. So we know that some will have multiples in Stortinget, some will not. I think it would have been better to have a really thorough process, where the government first came up with its point of view, and that the Stortinget then treat this together. This is how we develop good policies for business in Norway. The food industry is an industry of growth, but it is also a vulnerable industry that is beginning to take them seriously. There is no file feed. It's an industry that's traded for over 200 billion. kr, and she had felt more respect than the big crowd shows her today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1527	I would first like to say that I think it is a good idea to get a big message in this area. We have been over several years now where the Storting has adopted quite ambitious targets in areas that affect this. In the agricultural field, we have decided to increase self-sufficiency in this country, increase food production as population changes, based on Norwegian land. Just that in itself – how are we going to achieve it? It is clear that this is not just part of agricultural policy — here a whole food industry has to think about. During the treatment of the aquaculture message, there were ambitions — in the wake of it — to multiply the food production from farming by five over the next 10 years. There's a huge ambition in itself, and how to deal with it, how to make sure that this isn't just an export of raw materials out of the country, but that it actually leads to an industry in Norway, is a key issue that people in the industry find difficult to keep up with. This is the curtain, I'm thinking, for a need for a co-ordinated, larger strategy in this area. In addition, exciting things can happen even within other areas. It was called technology, or bioeconomy, where a exploits biological waste and biological resources to create new industries. Then it's quite unlikely for me to understand, to need through the thought line that leads to no, we're not going to have a national strategy for this, we're not going to see this in context. Then the real question is, why not? Is it because the government doesn't want to work, that they don't want to get tasks from Stortinget? Is it because the government wants only the tasks they themselves do, and at least they won't get anything from the Storting, on principle, that they just have to think of things on their own? Or is it because one does not want big messages, but rather wants to create government strategies, so that one can keep the Storting and the democratic level away? For me, this is just wild speculation, but a place inside there probably has to be the answer. The food industry is the only industry that is growing in Norway today. I can explain that. The government will certainly take the blame for this, just as we have a Minister of Agriculture who takes the time because we have had good crops, that we have had favourable weather for Norwegian food production, or that we have a Minister of Fisheries who has taken the time for it to be very good spawning in the Barents Sea, that it has good resource control over decades, and that we thus have a lot of fish in Norwegian waters – that this is government foresight. But if we don't see these things in context and have a consciousness of democratically anchored strategy for the food industry – then the question goes to the Christian People's Party. It is in many ways the Christian People's Party that must find the balance through the desire of the government to be allowed to rule without the interference of the Storing. In this case, the Christian People's Party has said that it is okay – we should not have a separate message in this area. I'm very excited to hear the answer from the Christian People's Party. For me, it's all in the blue what's the real foundation here, and maybe the best way to explain this is the next speaker, so I give the word to him through the president. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1538	I do not intend to do any deep dives in the representative that Reten has intended to say, he will do so himself. There is no doubt that this is an important industry that exists throughout the country. I'm going to be a little stunned when I hear the two previous representatives, both of whom were also on the nutrition committee in the previous period. They then dealt with both the agricultural message and the maritime food message, where it would have been natural – if they thought this was a lost agenda – to see contexts, which for my part it is about. The food industry is part of what I call a way out for agriculture and also for seafood. I can't see that you solve the industry's challenges by having x number of messages. Last year we had a debate in this Chamber on the agricultural notification. Much of this would have been natural to address them then. I don't think the world has changed that much since then. Then there is no doubt that many of the good innovations are in the food industry. That's what we see when we're visiting them. I am amazed that they – SV and the Center Party – are so naked to see the contexts and how the contexts apply in the food industry. These are, as I said, complete value chains. It's not just about uncoupling one piece, you have to see the whole thing. I'm not so sure that's exactly what brings the industry out of Norway, that we don't hang out with it. I think we need to be more able to coordinate and think in greater contexts than just going into every piece of the food industry. Then it is also interesting what the representative Pollestad was able to address again to the Christian People's Party, FINN-on-politik, he called it – FINN-on-politik. The sugar levy has, over time, promoted representatives from the Central Party quite many times in this Chamber, which is called a sensible policy. Last year it was all of a sudden opportunistic to say that this was not a central party policy, because the Christian People's Party came with it. So I mean completely, like many of the hearing bodies that we had inside, that this is not good. I hope that it can be adjusted. But I have to say that the short-term memory of the Center Party is partly very bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1553	I'm recording that there's a lot of tension attached to the post from the Christian People's Party. It's nice, because it shows that many people in the hall recognize that we currently have an important role to play in Norwegian politics. I can assure the representative Pollestad that it will do more to scare the Christian People's Party than other parties want a big message. I will try to do the following for why we believe that this is not necessary now, based on the independent and independent assessments that we have made. The food industry is important to Norway and is our largest mainland industry, employing around 51,000 people in the land-based, seafood-based and beverage industries. The food industry represents a diversity of enterprises established throughout the country and is of great importance for the country’s value creation. The companies process raw materials from, inter alia: Norwegian agriculture and fisheries are therefore of major importance also for primary industries. The food industry is exposed to competition and depends on long-term, predictable and competitive framework conditions. This industry is central to the bioeconomy and the green shift, and it is important to facilitate increased value creation and future jobs in industry. Increased production and value creation, based on the food value chain, will be an important part of the solution to global emissions and resource challenges, while providing more opportunities for the mainland economy. There is no doubt that the food industry is an important part of the Norwegian industry. However, it is difficult to distinguish between other industries in terms of framework conditions and policies. Industrial policy was discussed last year in the context of the Industrial Communication. The food industry was mentioned, but not more developed than other industries. Agriculture policy was discussed last year in the context of the agricultural notification, and the rest of the supply chain was discussed. The fish-based food industry, which is likely to have the highest growth potential, was mentioned in the 2016 notification of the seafood industry and also in subsequent fisheries policy issues. If we are to order a big message – with all the work behind – we must have a clear understanding of where we are going with it. In this context, it appears that many of the issues have been addressed in recent cases or cannot be detached from other framework conditions. Perhaps the most important issue for the food industry is the question of power conditions in the food value chain. That matter shall also be debated today in relation to Document 8:170 S for 2017-2018. Once an order on the issue has been submitted by a Joint Committee, this is also not something that needs to be clarified by a large-scale notification. The conclusion of the Christian People's Party is therefore that there is no need for a big message about the food industry now. The Christian People's Party will therefore not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1568	Will the government rule without the Storting? It's a tempting idea, of course, sometimes, when you're in a minority government – but it would be a democratic nightmare. If that was the reason, or if the Christian People's Party was so easily frightened, one would think that the Christian People's Party was not as often as they do, along with the opposition in matters, but so they do. So I don't think it has anything to do with it. I think it has something to do with what is said in the Chamber here, and which is also the conclusion of both the majority comments and my response to the Committee, which is not a fundamental resistance to having a big message about the food industry – in no way any evaluation of the food industry as such, which is a major continental industry for Norway – but which is simply an assessment that gave what the Committee has dealt with in the past, for example, given. frameworks passed through both agricultural and fisheries and industrial notifications are not the right time at this point in time. And if you want to look at the glass as half full instead of half empty -- it's probably not exactly the strong side of the opposition -- you can consider taking it as a kind of a positive invit and say that here it's at least an opening because one time later it might be the right time, that we also consider it yours that it would make sense. Let me just say a little bit about the industry itself. We have a viable food industry. We have a lot of solid businesses all over the country. Employment in the food industry has also increased, that is good. Then it must be reasonable to say that the framework conditions for the food industry are also good, similar to the framework conditions for the Norwegian industry in general. That doesn't mean they can't get any better. If we didn't want better framework conditions for the food industry and Norwegian industry in general, we could abdidate from the Ministry of Food and Fisheries, and the government parties could give away the taboo rights to the opposition. But there would hardly be any better business policy of that. The main changes for the food industry — as for others — are general framework conditions. It's labour regulations, it's research policy, it's the ability to exploit the research system, and not least it's competence policy. The food industry is a major apprentice industry in Norway. It's important, we need good skilled workers here too. Just to mention some of the things that have been done: taxes and taxes in Norway have gone down, not up, as they would do with another government. We've simplified for business. That doesn't mean it's all done. And once again, we're going to continue our work, but we're going to have about 15 billion. kr in the previous period and further ambitions during that period. We now spend a lot of time rebuilding the industrial nation of Norway. Of course, it has never been gone, but for a long time it was not meant to talk about an active industrial policy. This may be the reason why the Norwegian industry did not receive a wholesale notification for many, many years. It involves not only overall instruments such as research, innovation, new technologies, the availability of skilled labour, the increase in industrial research and innovation, but also projects for digitisation, catapult schemes – the kind of thing – and a great commitment to vocational training, apprentices and, in particular, new disciplines for vocational training in the school, which are very important for the food industry. Overall, we have an industrial policy with good general framework conditions. It also applies to the food industry. In total, it has given us a solid food industry in Norway. All in all – when we look at the situation now – my input is the same as in the majority comments, namely that right now we do not see the need for a separate big message about the food industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1586	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1591	It's nice to hear from the Council of State's self-confidence. I have to remember that it was never the government's own wish to write a big message about the industry. They were forced by a majority of the Stortinget. Had it been up to the government's agricultural policy, there would have been very small food industry in Norway, because their mantra has just been breaking down customs barriers. So pride might be a little bit down. I want to talk about clarity, because it's important. We have a fragmented state vis-à-vis the food industry, and the food industry is a fragmented industry. That's my claim. It consists of the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Fisheries, not least the Ministry of Industry with the Minister of Industry, the Minister of Health and not least the Minister of Finance. A number of different messages have been about this little – that’s good and important. Therefore, my question is: who in the government is responsible for the whole food industry and its framework conditions from sea to land?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1598	The representative of Aasland is such a practical politician that I believe – at least I suspect – that he also knows the answer to this. It is true for all sectors of Norway that different parts of their spheres of interest may fall within different departments. Let me just say the most obvious: as Minister of Industry, I am responsible for the instrument. Otherwise, I agree that to a large extent the state is fragmented, and it is too difficult to find, but now let it be a discussion for another time. In my previous job, I was a minister of knowledge. I was then responsible for very important parts of the framework conditions for the Norwegian food industry, not least the apprenticeship system and research and development. Similarly, the Minister of Transport is responsible for — and otherwise, for the movement of time — the fact that the movement is in place. I understand that a big message could gather all these threads, but my point is that we also gather many of the important threads for the food industry through other messages and other documents.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1605	I think it is good that the Minister of Industry is so honest and says that there may be challenges with a fragmented state, and that it is an advantage to be clear. But precisely to the food industry, which has its challenges, and which has its opportunities, it would not be beneficial to bring this together in a single document, to get one treatment in the Stortinge – a common approach to the future and the opportunities that actually lie there? I want to challenge in one area, the fishing industry, which is one of the areas where we have a great opportunity, but at the same time one of the main challenges: what will the Prime Minister's main action towards the fishing industry be in the near future?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1612	I do not disagree that sometimes it may be reasonable to group the threads in a big message. Just as has been said, it is not that for any industry that is important to Norway, we should automatically have our own big message. The reason why it's an important principle is that even if we're not going to have an old-fashioned business-neutral policy in the worst sense of the word, it's probably very important that we have some overall tools that hit everyone. We don't necessarily make our own big message for every industry we have in Norway, and I don't think we should do that either. As far as the fishing side is concerned, the feedback I get when I meet fishing companies is, firstly, not customs with the EEA Agreement and our market access. It should be noted that the cooperation parties of the Workers' Party. Then there is tax and charge, Norwegian ownership, delivery of raw materials and not least transportation, which I get the most feedback about. Now I've probably only been a government council in this department for six months, so it'll be okay in the next six months to get completely different kinds of feedback.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1619	A prudent industrial policy also includes the precautionary nature of taxes and charges. Over the past six months, the food industry has received a fee bill of 2 billion with a few weeks' notice. kr from the majority in Stortinget. Then my question to the Minister of Industry is: does the Minister of Industry feel that the food industry has been exposed to a stable and sustainable industrial policy for the past six months?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1624	What the representative Pollestad is asking is whether I think the ideal way of making policies is that tax proposals come through the budgetary process. Sometimes it's necessary, but in the ideal way of making policies, it's not. It is not difficult to understand that the sugar levy – although it is right as the representative from the left said here, there have also been other parties that have aired this idea earlier – came on relatively quickly, at least more difficult than you are used to. This is also the case, as I said earlier in this Chamber – although there is also a lot of money involved here, so the budget has to go into it – that the government parties are interested in discussing whether we can look at other approaches and other ways to do this. It must also be noted, at the end of the day, that with this government taxes and taxes are going down. The alternative is a policy where taxes and taxes are forecast, and this is predictable, but taxes and taxes are nevertheless higher for the owners of jobs, for example.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1631	We can talk about 2 billion. krup is that taxes go down. I mean, it's that they go up. The Committee was in Brussels and met with ESA. There we received a very good advice that I would like to share with the Council of State, namely that it is an advantage that taxes and charges are paid before they are introduced. I would like to pass that on. The Committee was also in Sweden. There they said they were going on with the food industry because they saw a potential for growth in the food industry. Norway's answer to that is to grant VAT exemptions to the Swedish food industry that would like to sell goods to Norway, in the form of VAT exemptions for goods under NOK 350. I repeat my question: does the Council of State feel that the food industry is facing a stable and sustainable fiscal policy in the last six months?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1642	The sugar levy does not apply in absolute terms to all in the food industry. To answer in a slightly clumsy way: when a representative of the Central Party recommends a Right-State Council to listen to ESA, I listen. That's a good input. The framework around the framework conditions also changes, and one of the things that we see have really increased is cross-border online commerce and online commerce. We know that the EU is working on a proposal to introduce VAT from the first penny in 2021. We also see that where, a few years ago, one had a duty-free limit – i.e. VAT exemption for foreign goods, on the grounds that it was important for consumers and not bureaucratically – it might not have been taken into account that online trade would grow and probably grow. All of these are good arguments for having a pragmatic relationship with e.g. The 350-kroner limit.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1649	I want to thank the Council of State for an interesting article. I particularly noticed – as I understood the Council of State – that at this point there is no basis, as the Council of State considers it, to proceed with a message. The way I heard it, it's not right now, one just has to think about it first, one could interpret it as – said with a little glimpse into the eye. It made me think a little bit about what it is that will decide whether the government itself will come up with a thought about making a separate message about the food industry. What kind of changes is it that will happen that we don't see today? Are we talking about time, or are we talking about aspect? Can he say a little bit about what assessments you've made? If so, what time will a food industry notification come?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1656	It is not the case that the Ministry of Industry has now secretly started working on a food industry notification and will then present it, just to prevent the Storting from imposing it. It's not the assessment that's behind it, so I don't think I can say anything more about what's going on, and what assumptions need to change. After an overall assessment, we have given feedback to the Committee that we believe that there is no need for this now. My point was just to stress that there is no fundamental resistance to having such a big message at some point, but the sum of what the Stortinge has dealt with before, that there is an industry that has potential but also goes well, and that we have dealt with major issues in both this and the previous one that deals with precisely framework conditions that are also important to the food industry, making us think that the time is not right. It's all about not interpreting more than what's in the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1666	Some answers from government councils are more interesting than others, and what the Minister of Industry said here was quite interesting – he does not want an ‘old-fashioned, business-neutral policy’. A business-neutral policy is exactly the same as a liberalist policy. What we in Stortinget then need to find out – when the Council of State does not want this old-fashioned, liberalist policy – is how he works to make the government as a college more forward-looking and pursue an active policy based on the Norwegian People's Government. Because in this government we have Jon Georg Dale, who is an eloquent liberalist and thus a champion of this old-fashioned, business-neutral policy. And now we just got Tor Mikkel Vara into the government, another liberalist. How does the Council of State combat this liberalism?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1671	Moreover, I do not want to pursue an old-fashioned, selective state aid policy. But if I don't remember faults – I have to make sure that this isn't something I've read about lately – it was probably the first government to use the term "nutritional neutral," at least it described as politics, the Stoltenberg I government, or a former Workers' Party government. In any case – a liberalist policy is not about Norway. For me, the weakness of a business-neutral policy is that one can later replace any country with Norway. For example, the government has told us to bet on the sea. We're not doing it because we're any country, we're doing it because we're Norway. We have a long coastline, long traditions, a great environment of competence, complete clusters for this. So it's not a business-neutral policy. Then we would say that we're betting on research, and then any project that's good, in any area, gets lifted. I have not had any problems convincing colleagues in the Progress Party about that, to say the least.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1678	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1685	I'll be given a little bit when the debate is about two billion. Increased overnight taxes for an industry mean of negative things — in the form of lost income, in the form of lost jobs. It is a story that the Central Party itself has put forward this proposal in the Stortinget. Then I would ask those who make that kind of claim to show in what alternative budget or, alternatively, revised budget the Central Party has put in a sugar levy of 2 billion. kr. That's just not true. So to another point that has been up: it has been pointed out, for example. the marine food industry notification. Yes, the maritime industry message was a good message, a good discussion. But the main focus of the marine food industry message is stopping on the quay. Actually, it was mostly about what happened before that time. For this reason, it would also be important for the fisheries industry to get such a big message, and I believe that that part of the industry is in favour of a big message. Indicates that there are a number of other messages. Yes, there is an agricultural message, there is a big deal about the trade in goods, there is an industrial message, and we will discuss the law on good trading practices later today. These have in common that it was not the government's initiative that made them come, it was a decision in the Storting that made up for it. I note that the majority in Stortinget has very clear opinions as to why such a message is not right to come now. I also record that a whole food industry has a different view that such a message would be a good one. Finally, we can take along what is positive, and I found it uplifting when I heard the comments from the Minister of Industry about subsidising imported products, that he thinks there are good reasons to remove them – that the 350-kronor limit has given untimely results. It's an assessment that the Centre Party fully shares. We will always be in the Centre Party against spending state money on subsidising foreign jobs at the expense of Norwegians. We want to use our efforts to invest in Norwegian jobs, in Norway, to use the value chain we have today, and to build it up – so that it can increase value creation, not reduce it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1700	I didn't think this would be such a lack of discussion, but the debate dealt with very many of the important questions we face in Norwegian industrial policy. There are many good reasons to see these industries in context and to see the whole food industry as a whole. Just to take it a little schematic: the result of the marine food industry message, which I was also involved in, was that very many of the most important proposals to the government were voted down, the Stortinge would have a different direction in that field. We have not yet seen the result of that in practical policy. There has been no direct follow-up to the setting entered by Size. Both the Left Party and the Christian People's Party agreed to vote with the opposition for another direction, for example. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. The agricultural message we last treated is also a good example of not finding the policy itself in the message, but in the settings. It was the opposition – the plurality of the Stortinget, which is not in government – that defined what agricultural policy should be. There is also a completely different level of ambition from that of the government itself. Together, it should be open to everyone to take this further and see these new commitments that the Stortinget has put on the table – with a higher level of ambition than the government has established in a food industry context – at least be in the opposition to the Stortinget's interest. In addition, we have been dealing with an industrial message, with perhaps one of the shortest debates we've had here on Stortinget. It was an industry message with quite good analysis, but with very little action, and the industry in general felt that little commitment came out of what would change the framework for them. We still have an explanation from the government that tax credits to the richest have led to better business conditions in Norway. We haven't been able to find economists who can identify such a relationship. In a situation where we see that the industry is losing ground, where there is a decline in all industries except the food industry, where the raw materials produced in Norway go out unprocessed, and where there is no sign of a green shift that can take the loss of revenue from oil and gas, it is striking to me that one is not at all trying to take this field in context.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1713	Employment and safety issues are the two major societal issues in the coming years. And from both of these important issues for our country, a red thread goes into safe food and drink. It was quite surprising when we discovered that it was not a unanimous committee that wanted a big message on this important field. We even thought that there might be a further improvement in the underlying proposal, because at the hearing there was enthusiasm about getting the seafood into this proposal. That's not what happened. A question was asked here: Why should we have such a message? Well, let me give you some recent examples of why it's important to know more about safe food and drink in our country. At the beginning of the last growing-up period, Vidar Helgesen traveled down to Brussels to remove the foundation that the red-green government had strengthened to produce safe Norwegian milk and dairy products from all over our country. Fortunately, the Right Party and the Advance Party were stopped in Stortinget, which means that we can still have jobs across the country. There is one example of why it is important to have knowledge about these relationships. But we have even more examples of why safe food and drink are going to be an increasingly important part of the social debate and our lives in the next few years. Just think of the horse meat scandal, which was about marking, and which showed how vulnerable we are if we don't have control of what's in the products. Or think of the failed liberalist policy that has hit Denmark, with antibiotic resistance in an industrialised pig production, or that it was exported spoiled beef from Brazil. All three of these examples show how important both a strong agriculture and a safe and good food industry is – a value creation that benefits us all. In fact, a good and strong food industry is the crucial infrastructure for us to have that kind of value creation and jobs across our country. For example, what will happen if there are no dairies and slaughterhouses around our country? Well, it's going to be practically impossible to exploit the soil resources that are scattered in our country, if we don't have an infrastructure that can accept the primary product. So there's a lot of good arguments for why we need more knowledge and more commitment in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1730	I would like to start by commenting on the posts of the representative Pollestad, where he probably chose his words with extreme care. He said that there has never been anyone in the centre party who wants to increase the sugar charge by 2 billion kroner. kr. Then I guess it's 2 billion. Which is the jumping point, for his colleague Kjersti Toppe said it needs to be increased sharply, that there is a lot to go on, and that it can be used to a much greater extent than so far. At the top of it all, she said the jam, summed up, that it's going to be a popular action. The last thing I think we can agree on is at least going to debate. Briefly within the maritime food message – I forgot it in my first post. When I summed up all the different messages, all the different reports and all the different processes that are going on, I was able to forget the maritime food message. Now the representative Pollestad said it was incredibly important, and I agree very much with that, of course I should also include it. But it was obviously not important enough for the Senter party to remember to include the seafood in its original representative proposal. But it's quick to forget. The debate today has been a little bit about who has copyright to say that we see things in context. I want to say that collecting different reports, different size reports, different processes in progress and seeing them in context – well, that's just that. On the other hand, if you're going to say that message is the goal, it's to fragment everything, you're going to ask me. And then it's always shown that the industry wants this message. Yes, if you ask a business: if you want your own message?, probably a lot of people in that industry will answer yes. But if you ask the same industry, do you want a tax system that gives you tax relief over time?, they will also answer yes. If you ask, if you want more simplification, which means that you save money and time to run your core business?, they will answer yes. If you ask, do you want skills for those who will work with you in the future?, they will answer yes. If you ask: Do you want more focus on research and innovation?, they will answer yes. But if you ask, if you want us to do something about the EEA agreement, they will answer no. It's not like because the industry says something one place, there's a menu you can pick from. Either you listen to the industry or you don't listen to the industry. Anyway, I think we'll see where it ends today. There is no need for a separate report on the food industry at present, and I am pleased that we are landing on this in the Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1743	I think – last but not least – that it is so unambiguous in its conclusion that there is no need for a single big message about the food industry, something admirable remains after this debate, not least after the Council of State – we shall say – trying to be at least constructive in its approach to an important topic. I stand for and believe that it would have been beneficial to get a big message about a fragmented and important industry for us as consumers, but also for us as a nation, and not least about a fragmented food industry that meets a fragmented country. I think the Minister for Economic Affairs himself gave a good account of that. In the government, it may be the Minister of Industry who is one of the government councils that has the least responsibility for the food industry. I would say that the Minister for Fisheries has a far greater responsibility for the maritime food industry and that the Minister for Agriculture has a considerably greater responsibility than the Minister for Industry for the meat industry, the dairy sector, etc. To see things in context and in connection with the concept of industry, the concept of trade, etc. In connection with the Minister of Industry, I wanted to see it as a strength. As a result, the minority’s desire to get a big message about the food industry — and that they thus challenge the Minister of Industry — is also a build-up of the Minister of Industry in the food industry. He sees it himself, but the representatives in the hall from the same party may not see it. I also think he has a good approach to this with the 350 kroner limit. It also shows, as another example of the sugar levy, how easy it is to destroy too important industries in Norway. I think, when we now experience mass imports of e.g. brus – The Brewery Association is significantly challenged – that there is just 350 SEK-limit that causes it. Then I think it is good to record that the Minister of Industry says he has a pragmatic relationship with it. I hope that the government will remember and remove this limit when it is proposed in the context of the revised national budget. I think that's in place to build up the food industry and brewing industry, but this is also evidence that it would have been an advantage to get a complete big message about the food industry to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1752	The representative Geir Pollestad has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1757	Just a brief comment related to what was said, that we have made a very clever proposal. The centre party's idea has always been that a large-scale report on the food industry should cover both the production based on agriculture and what is produced from the sea. We also wrote in the proposal that it is an ‘industry for the production of food from both agriculture and fisheries, as well as beverages’. Right can make a point that we didn't have to write farmed species into it, but it has always been our intention. So I would like to thank the case spokesman for doing a good job – I don't think anyone in the debate has done so far – and for arranging an interesting seminar on that. There has been a good process, although the result might not have been quite as expected by the proposers.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1764	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1780	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, six series of replies be given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1789	In this discussion, there is good reason to thank the members of the Committee for their good and constructive cooperation. It's no secret that several parties have gone to reach an agreement. I am convinced that this consensus has an independent value – now a collective industry sees that it is a unanimous growth addressing a problem and starting work on finding solutions. There is reason both to hope and believe that the industry takes on board the expectation that competition will be intensified, that the pace of innovation will increase, that diversity will increase, and that there will be proper prices for the consumer to end up paying. It is my opinion that there is a broad consensus on the understanding of reality in this industry. Power is becoming increasingly concentrated, less and less involved in competition, and supply and price are not developing in the right direction. Now that we are intervening in this area, there is a difficult balance between industrial policy and consumer policy. We are equally fully responsible for intervention if one or more markets fail to function properly. There are few countries, if any, that have managed to balance this perfectly, but there must not be a resting-room, we must constantly strive to find the means that can work, while taking into account both consumers and businesses. There is today a very concentrated food market in Norway. Developments call for the necessary measures and may, in some cases, become intrusive. The law on good trade itself, with which we today decide that the government will come back, will contribute to more effective negotiations between the food chains and suppliers, while the various other measures notified to the government must and must be able to balance the power of the value chain better. I hope that today we will take a major and important step forward, which over time will improve competition and ensure higher levels of innovation, greater diversity, greater transparency and more new developments.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1800	This is a good day for the Workers' Party, in terms of the groceries market, as we are getting an impact for an important part of our Document 8 proposal on Good Trade Law. I would like to thank the case rapporteur, I would also like to thank the Right and the Advance Party for having turned this case around, and I would like to thank the industry, which has participated in the hearing and has been very clear that the law of good trade may not be – let us say – the complete answer, but an important response in connection with regulating this area better than it is today. Until now, the concentration has increased. It is more than seven years since I was outside Stortinget and said that the Workers' Party was in favour of a law of good trade. After seven years we have now received a unanimous growth. I am pleased, and I fully agree with what the rapporteur said that this is a significant signal and a significant direction for this industry in the future. The foundation is through this setting, and I'm glad. It is the law of good trading practice that provides supervision with its own decision-making powers, which is crucial. In addition, the investigation carried out by the Hjelmeng Committee in NOU 2013: 6, good trading practice in the food chain, shall be used as the basis for the legislative work to be finally presented to the Stortinget. It's very clear, it's very concrete, and I think that's very good. In addition, the Labour Party wishes and welcomes a further investigation on this matter. We believe that getting a good investigation into the prohibition of price discrimination for dominant suppliers is important given at least new start-ups in this market, which are very concentrated. We also want to be well-informed about how it affects the negotiations and the concentration of power in relation to the daily food industry. One may subsequently have to demand that negotiations on goods and distribution be conducted separately. For us, this is a good day, we've got an impact on what we wanted. I want to end by summarising the Hjelmeng committee's proposal for the purpose of the Good Trade Act. They wrote: ‘The aim of the law is to contribute to increased consumer welfare by promoting business relations between traders with a high ethical standard, in particular in the form of effective and predictable relations. Consumer welfare means the well-being of final customers through low prices, high quality, wide range of products and high level of availability.» That is very well said.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1818	I would also like to start by thanking the case spokesperson – a unanimous committee is very good. The fact that the committee also agreed to agree on a good week before the original date for submitting the proposal is a sign that the negotiations were relatively good. In Stortinget it is that when we are some of something, we often tend to discuss who made it up first, and who should have the most honor. I will make a limited contribution to that, but I think that when we are discussing this proposal today, it is worth sending some kind thoughts to former Minister of Agriculture Lars Peder Breck. He was the government's councilman and put down the food chain selection in 2010, who took up this problem and got the government involved in starting the work. That now, eight years later, we're going to have a unanimous increase in this, is a pleasure, and I'm not going to fall for the temptation to say welcome after. I think it's good that the parties have turned around. I see it as an expression that the realities, and the perception of them, have been worse than they have been before. There are few proposals the Centre Party has voted on as many times as just the proposal on the law of good trade. What's happy is that we get a clear decision, a decision that frames quite strongly what the Storting orders. We are to have own supervision, and the Committee stresses the autonomy of supervision, because it is frightening when one experiences that relatively large companies fear to talk publicly about negotiations and power relationships in the chain. I believe the most important thing today is that the Storting now shows the will to intervene when necessary. From the Center Party, I can now inform you that our approach will be to have the most independent and independent supervision from the Competition Authority. We will also underline the importance of good government progress in this matter. This should therefore be decided in spring 2019, so that it is ready to be implemented during 2019. The law of good trade and the decision we make today is no end, it's a good start to an important work, which should have been started a long time ago, but which at least it's good that we get a plural today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1839	This is very good work. I will give tribute to the case spokesman in this case and to the job done in the committee, which has made this possible. I think we don't need to look back, but we can only look forward to what we have come here. I also think it's an important recognition, because reality shows us what ideology can never fully foresee, for example. if a believe that the market can regulate itself and will always find its best organisation, etc. We've seen in practice what happens if we don't intervene, and a co-conspirator's growth now says that this is an imperfect market that needs to be regulated better if the goal is fair competition, where it's possible for people to enter the market, etc. And then we have to say at the same time that this isn't enough in itself. Law of good trade is very good, but alone cannot ensure that everything is perfect in the daily food industry. We must continue to follow up on how the situation develops, and continue to discuss and take action if necessary to get more openness and tidy conditions in the industry. Distribution and price discrimination are some of the themes that we need to look at and discuss more. Now the government is going to start a deal, and we're going to see what extent and grip it takes. I also want to signal that for SV it is important that the Hjelmeng selection recommendations on independent supervision are followed up. We believe that this will give more power to work if it becomes an independent body, rather than being placed under the supervision of competition. Then we've signaled it as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1852	First, I would like to boast of the work done by the rapporteur and that he would lead this through in the committee and have broad support for it. But I also think that the representative of Aasland deserves credit for this, because we saw together the possibilities of getting this in place. I think that was very good. It is balanced in relation to the value chain for food and groceries, because, as many have pointed out here, power conditions have been monopolised, and that is unfortunate in my view. Therefore, it is important that we put in place instruments to improve competition and efficiency in the food market. There may be a difficult balance between industrial policy and consumer policy within the value chain of the food market. I am pleased that the committee is today behind the decision, where it is a clear and clear signal that we are going to put in place a law on this now, but also an oversight that has an independent decision-making competence. So I am not going to conclude now, until we have been told that the supervision should be outside the Competition Authority and have a role on the outside. We're going to have to get back to that. But regardless of that, I think it has to be a clear oversight. I think it is important that we now put in place competition-promoting measures to facilitate both new start-up and innovation in the groceries market. I am also pleased that we are now seeing this in connection with the prohibition of price discrimination for dominant suppliers related to distribution. So, as I said, it's a clear, clear signal and a clear decision today. On the other hand, I have great faith in the market, but the market also requires a balance. It is not with monopolistic formations. There's also a little bit of the role here, that when you see that it's a relatively small market, you also have to make sure that there's a balance in it. Without it, free competition will not work as you have thought.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1863	I will, as a speaker before me, start this post by commending the case rapporteur for well-performing political craftsmanship. Through good dialogue with the opposition parties, a committee position has been established in which both the comments and the proposals are promoted by an overall committee. In view of the level of conflict that has existed in the past in this matter, both politically and between the actors in the value chain for groceries, I would argue that it is very rare to land such a settlement in the Storting. The Christian People's Party is also involved in all comments, and I therefore do not go into any detail on our reasons for supporting the proposals in this matter. In the first instance, the Government of Solberg did not follow the recommendation of the Hjelmeng Committee in 2013 to introduce a law on good trade practices with a dependent commercial supervision for the food sector. In 2015, the majority of the population, of whom the Christian People's Party was part, decided to explore alternatives to a law of good commercial practice, in order to ensure greater transparency and competition between the actors in the food chain, thereby improving consumer welfare. In the years that followed, trends that were already apparent in 2011 have intensified: power concentration at retail level is increasing, food chains are gaining full control at both wholesale and distribution levels, and new players trying to establish themselves in the grocery market need to deal with a discount system that favours the large and established retail chains. The Christian People's Party has recorded that despite this development, there has been very little progress by the government in evaluating alternatives to a new law of good trade. We have therefore been clear that we wanted to reconsider our position from 2015 in relation to the consideration of the Workers' Party's proposal. It is therefore gratifying that the government has now also concluded in the same way, and that the work on this matter has entered into a constructive path. The Christian People's Party meets a new law of good trade that can ensure greater transparency and predictability between the actors in a tough food market, thereby better balancing power and symmetry in the information flows at the time of the conclusion of contracts. It will in turn provide better consumer welfare through the right price, better quality and increased selection and availability. It is important that independent decision-making supervision is established in order to enforce the law, and the Christian People's Party is in favour of different models of such a supervisory system being investigated. Of course, final conclusions must wait for the investigation to take place, but we will already signal that the model proposed by the Hjelmeng Committee, an independent trade supervision that has been added administratively to the Competition Authority, seems to be a good and functional solution from our point of view. As regards the issue of price discrimination and distribution-related issues referred to in the second recital, we would point out that these are issues that are complicated by the fact that several of the main suppliers in the food chain simultaneously perform important functions in market regulation, which is a support bar under the Norwegian agricultural model. It is a relationship that the Christian People's Party will place great emphasis on our assessments when the government delivers its investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1880	The food power debate is about how much the different actors will be left with. And it's not surprising that suppliers, for example. will limit the purchasing power of the chains – colonial.no, for example, asks on a regulation there. Coop believes that the growth of the Norway Group must be stopped, while the Norway Group is at equal supplier prices. Therefore, it is very good that the business committee has put the consumer in the centre. We in Norway do not spend such a high proportion of our income on food, but this is because we have high income — not that food is cheap. There are, of course, many explanations for this, but one of the problems is weak competition. Several suppliers have strong market power. There are three chains that dominate the store dress, and new retailers are unable to compete with existing chains. There is no smartness, but in order for consumers to get better out, we need to increase competition both on the supplier side and on the chain side. New retailers must be given conditions that enable them to compete. The requirement for the rapid implementation of the law on good trade practices is promoted from several levels. If I had been in the food chain today, I had noticed the strength of the demand for regulation of their power. It is absolutely right that there has been some scepticism about the proposal on our part. We have believed that it does not necessarily strengthen competition, that it can increase red tape, and, in the worst case, also increase the cost to businesses. The Committee argues that a law on good trade provides better negotiations and greater predictability. I can agree with that, and we must also ensure that we do not create a law that provides too much extra bureaucracy or excessive administrative costs. Good trade law shall not redistribute the cake between suppliers and chains, nor shall the chain-leaving act be restricted. The purpose of this Act is primarily effective contracts between the actors. Then we will also discuss other measures that can promote competition. The prohibition of price discrimination from dominant suppliers and conditions of distribution will be included in this investigation. All in all, I believe that the Business Committee has provided a good starting point for the government's further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1891	There has been a good deal of work in the committee and a good piece of work done by the rapporteur. We now get a law of good trade in Norway, and I know that many people around the country are very pleased with that. Trustees around the food industry very much appreciate the very decision we are going to make today, because it can increase the chance that more of those who work on the floor will see the result of their work at the store. Interestingly, we are now going to go to work carefully and look at the relationship between the negotiation of the goods and their distribution, and whether this has to be done separately. In addition, this is a good day for highlighting food quality. During the weekend, I had the pleasure of attending the Norwegian Spekemat Festival and handed out the prize to this year's bacon ambassador. And what the winners said, was that we have so many great opportunities in Norway to highlight the quality of food that we produce here in the country, and that both people here at home and not least tourists visiting our country can enjoy it. A law on good trade precisely provides for more opportunities for a variety of products with proper food quality to be present. Then we're not talking about the cola flask being one litre or one and a half liters – we're really talking about an offer that makes consumers in Norway have access to proper food of proper quality. The work that the rapporteur has done should be an inspiration for even more people in many other matters that we are going to deal with during this period, because when there is obvious, sensible and wise action that we can jointly take to improve the distribution of values in Norway, provide more jobs and strengthen the appreciation of our food culture, it is very fun that the Storting can find together on these proposals. Then we make real improvement for the people of our country, and that's the biggest task. So all in all, it's a good day for Norwegian food.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1903	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1919	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Christian Party 5 minutes, Green Party 5 minutes and Red 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to six lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1932	We have several proposals to address in this matter to stop the implementation of the Maritime Committee's recommendation to allow ferries sailing between ports in Norway and outside the Nordic region to be registered in NIS. After careful consideration, which includes several questions and follow-up questions to the Council of State, the majority of the Committee has chosen not to support any of the proposals. A second majority has chosen to support a comment on the update of the information underlying the recommendation of the OMC. I expect this one will get its follow-up in the RNB process, without me wanting to shoot it. I would like to thank the Committee for the work it has done, and I would like to pay tribute to the Council of State and the Ministry for the good and swift answers to some of the major questions. This is a topic that arouses debate. It has therefore been important to get quick and correct answers to the questions that have been asked. When my great-grandfather sailed as a sailor for a Bergens shipping company on a tanker trip across the Atlantic, Norwegian wages were low and conditions tough. Norwegian seafarers were competitive because they were capable, and the salary level was as for seafarers from other countries. There was a tough life at the end of the 1930s, and when my great-grandfather came to sail convoys with oil tankers during the Second World War, it finally went wrong, and he is today buried in Galveston, Texas. There he died of exhaustion after a rough trip over a war-filled sea. At the time, Norwegian seafarers were the country’s largest source of foreign currency. So society has changed. Since the 1980s, policy has also become a policy to support a fleet under the Norwegian flag and to secure the strong Norwegian maritime cluster. Is there such a magic wand that can ensure both the competitiveness of Norwegian seafarers and their pay ratios? Unfortunately, it's not that simple. The net pay scheme, together with a number of other measures, has been taking place in recent years, including: as recommended by the Committee of the Regions, contributed to an improvement. Today, someone will claim that we are jeopardizing the jobs of 700 seafarers. But I would argue that not doing the things described here could put 2,300 Norwegian jobs at risk of deflagration. In particular, the South would be hit hard if the Color Line were to be flagged out. Against this, a claim that the conditions in NOR have become so good that there is no longer any risk of deflagration – this due to the exchange rate and good maritime policy of the government in recent years, among others. through the legalisation of the improvement of the net pay scheme. It is true that the exchange rate is different, but at least two of the factors that normally push up the exchange rate have already begun to move with the alerted interest rate rise and the increased oil price. The government has managed to reverse the development that was under the red-green government. The number of vessels in NIS has increased, the home flag has increased, the net pay scheme has been legalised and the amount has increased. These are measures the red-green government would not do anything, but that is done now, and we see that it works. It is also apparent from the fact that the amount by which the seafarers concerned are subsidized in this case per year. is increased from around 59 million. kr at the time of processing by the Committee of the Regions of more than 100 million. kr ago. This is also claimed by the competitors of the company in question. But no ferry companies have flagged back to NOR. It has the assumption that they wouldn't do it if it was profitable. There is also a reason that Hurtigruten unfortunately flags out a ship for parts of the year. It would be strange if they did it to lose money, even if I don't like it very much. So it's clear that those who are leading this argument, even don't dare bet on what they're saying, is right. At the same time, further improvement of the framework conditions, such as: an extension of the area of operation will mean an increase in the likelihood of repatriation and a reduction in the likelihood of deflagration. We support the setting, as it exists in the case. To be a little technical here at the end: it was not unanimous in the committee to allow the matter to be attached to the Minutes, but the Right will support it when it comes to the vote today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1953	Today is a sad day for Norwegian seafarers. The government intends to implement a regulation change, a regulation change, a small minority in the Storting – I would really believe it would be a majority in the Storing, if you thought with your heart and your head – not want the government to implement. It is sad to add up to a change that allows 700 Norwegian seafarers to be put ashore, while also inviting foreign workers on board through schemes, also paid by taxpayers. It's sad. It is particularly sad as long as the seafarers on board Color Line have had the impression that the bulk of the population has long wanted the change that the government is going to make actually not to be implemented. Then there's someone in this room who has to think carefully about it. The advance party's previous opinions on this matter have undoubtedly been supported by Norwegian seafarers. The amendment that the government is going to implement should put an end to the Progress Party. There was no doubt: the party of progress was the party of the seafarers. It was the right party of the shipowners, Morten Ørsal Johansen said on 11 April to the class struggle. Today it must be bad to vote against the seafarers and the shipowners, for the elite. It's sad that a lot of politics, playoffs and rhetoric, are based on dishonesty and dishonesty, as the newspaper of the day writes in an excellent way in today's leader. When the problem arose, at least lately, we sent an invitation to all the parties on the Stortinget: couldn't we sit down and go through the relationship that was now grounded, and see if there were any possibilities to find common agreement, without us pulling the long political lines into it? It was really a wish on the part of the committee, but the government had said no. The progress party had the thumb up – they were supposed to be on for the seafarers. But in the process, they've turned their thumb down. It is sad that we experience such processes in Stortinget – not least that we use our own representative in this room as a starting point to give false security to people who need security. That is what we have witnessed in this matter. We have not concluded at last, but we have said that we deserve a new round, with an updated knowledge base, before making a decision that has such far-reaching consequences for so many. It is not certain that only the 700 seafarers on board Color Lines ferries to Kiel will be put ashore. A spiral can also be started, where it is the companies that understate wages and compete with the worst conditions, that win the competition. It may be the Right-Critch Party-Left Government that is launching that race. Get it, whoever wants it. Then I hear that the Minister of Industry has said several times that he has gone through the basics over and over again, and finds no changes to it. He pushes 2,500 employees in front of him. Why not, in a fair manner, go through what we have actually proposed, and take it as a starting point for the matter we have to deal with in the Stortinget? It's a mystery to me. It's incomprehensible, and it's almost historical, I think, that a government chooses to make such a far-reaching change, without having up-to-date knowledge, and without taking into account that the assumptions underlying it come from 2014. The government has strengthened the net pay scheme, with a unanimous increase to help. The left is probably the one that has been the most opposed to the net pay scheme. But it is therefore in Stortinget a broad connection to an enhanced net pay system that the government has implemented. This is a significant improvement from 2014 to today. Then the exchange rate has also improved. Competition conditions have improved. There should be sufficient grounds for reconsidering the case. In addition, we should have a case again to assess how this might start a race among the various shipping companies to subsidise wages in terms of competition. This is not the way a proud maritime nation is supposed to go — to show the seafarers their backs when they first need to be seen in their eyes and taken into account in a very demanding situation. It is absolutely amazing that the majority does not want this update. It's strange that you don't want to assess the facts as well as the stability of those who developed parts of the basis for the government-appointed industry committee. It is strange that you do not want to have to review the current framework conditions for foreign ferries with routes to ports outside the Nordic region, which are registered in NOR. It is totally incomprehensible that the bulk of the population does not want an overview of the government’s assessments of the framework conditions applicable to international voyages with passenger cargo in NIS, NOR and DIS and other international registers, respectively. It is totally incomprehensible that measures which could, where appropriate, improve and ensure the basis for the competition of foreign ferries with routes to non-Nordic ports within the framework of NOR are being voted down in the Stortinget. Understand the one who can. It is also quite incomprehensible that the Stortinget does not wish to have the consequences for Nordic workers in the Nordic passenger traffic, if an extension of the area for international ferries is made in the Norwegian International Ship Register. I was surprised when I attended the Political Quarter this morning, when I heard the representative Morten Ørsal Johansen from the Progress Party saying that they would not vote for the Labour Party proposal because we took into account Nordic workers, and not the Norwegian seafarers. That's how it was produced in the Political Quarter. The Labour Party promoted the proposal after we had initially tried to reach a common agreement in Stortinget on going one round and looking at the consequences and the need to make this regulation change, and so we are witnessing this. I find it regrettable that not the representative of the Progress Party, Morten Ørsal Johansen, stands up for the promises he has given to the seafarers, and which he to those degrees has expressed in the media lately. It is also a pity that the Vice-President of the Progress Party, who was just in the Chamber, who had massive support for it after the National Assembly of the Advance Party, does not see the seafarers in the eyes to a greater extent now and says, "We must support you." That's one way to do it, and that's to vote for this proposal and get it adopted tonight. It's the only way to create security. Those who want to stand up for the seafarers now have a historic opportunity to do just that, to create the small, last certainty that no Norwegian authorities will start a race towards the bottom through a regulatory change, where it is the shipping companies that compete with the worst pay and working conditions that win. It's not going to end with the 700 seafarers that the Maritime Committee analysed in 2014. This is the beginning of a competition and a development that we do not want. Security for people, security for seafarers and safety for workers should be a mantra that Stortinget suggested. I think it's a shame you don't do it today. I believe that what is being developed today, among other things. in the editorial of the Newspaper on the dishonesty underlying the game of which the Progress Party has been a part, there is little credit left. They are neither the party of the seafarers nor of the workers. They are the party of the elite and the shipowners. I am delighted to hear the further debate, to hear the reasons why they do not vote for something that they have for a long time said they will vote in favour, just to ensure the daily lives of so many people in Norway. I'm dealing with the minority proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1993	The representative of Terje Aasland has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e1998	The matter we are discussing today has reminded me of how exciting it is to be a politician, but also that the days of this house can be demanding and unpredictable. The matter has been marked by a lot of emotions, commitment and political towing for many weeks, and now we've come to where we are today. The Norwegian Maritime Nutrient Cluster employs approx. 110 000 people. Norwegian seafarers are the explanation of the maritime success that Norway has and has had. Norwegian maritime competence is important on the pedestal, and we are concerned that in future we will also have Norwegian seafarers both in their own waters and on international voyages. In this respect, it is important that a policy-makers who are precisely pursuing and maintaining this objective should be pursued. Let me say one thing emphatically: the party of progress is, has always been and will always be the party of the seafarers. We've been since the party was founded at the mass meeting at Saga cinema in April 1973, and the commitment has not gone down in that respect. Last week at our national meeting a few weeks ago, an almost unanimous assembly ended up in the statement to support Norwegian seafarers. This opinion included: that Norwegian seafarers will continue to be confident in the future that the Advance Party is not only the party for seafarers most, but for all seafarers. In addition, the national meeting concluded that we want a competitive reimbursement scheme in the future, which will apply to all segments of Norwegian seafarers. In this way, we guarantee Norwegian seafarers for the future, which the entire Norwegian maritime industry is totally dependent on. But these are just nice words if it's not being translated into action. For what have we done for the Norwegian sailor? Yes, after we took over from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV in 2013, we realized that we had a bit of a job to do for Norwegian seafarers. This provided the basis for the government’s maritime strategy, which was presented in 2015. This document marked a bit of a shift in Norwegian maritime policy, and so far it is estimated that about 38 ships have re-flagged home after the strategy was presented. Norwegian maritime clusters are of great importance for whether the Progress Party is in government or not. Just because we run this country, the subsidy scheme for the employment of seafarers is strengthened. For 2018, it is otherwise granted over 2 billion. kr to the scheme, and at our watch this grant scheme is also statutory and extended to specialised segments of deep sea operations. We have also invested in maritime education, and we have strengthened Export Credit Norway and GIEK through adjustments in the export finance offer. We have also made it easier for Norwegian shipyards to obtain building loans. It is crucial for Norwegian workplaces and Norwegian competences. In addition, Stortinget has decided to discuss Norwegian wage and working conditions on a Norwegian base, and we will follow this very closely. The last time, and not least a few minutes ago, we have seen that the Workers' Party has been very high and dark in this matter. They have been particularly merciless in their speeches by the Progress Party and the undersigned and our credibility linked to the seafarers. But I honestly find it a little difficult to raise myself well above this criticism, because the undersigned have memory a little more than 14 days. For me, history is important – one can actually learn a bit from it. Then the question is, When did the Workers' Party really become so very concerned with the seafarers? And then I mean in practice, not just on paper. They have said that they will legislate the net pay scheme and also raise the ceiling. They've been saying that for a long time. Nevertheless, the Labour Party had eight years in government, between 2005 and 2013, to do something about both issues. And what happened? Absolutely nothing. Well, by the way, what they got over all these years was to make things worse for Norwegian shipping. For example, in 2006, there was an increase in the number of problem drug users. limits on the net pay scheme in Norway and, from 2008, it was further weakened. So the subsidy scheme for employment of seafarers went down – down, President. In this case, it is also important to have good memory, and I would like to remind the Workers' Party that it was those who helped set up the NIS register in 1987, which meant that 15 000 Norwegian seafarers were thrown on land in a hand turn and disappeared from the country. One can therefore, with advantage, walk a little quieter in the doors in this respect. Then there are others who wonder why the Progress Party is against the Labour Party's proposal today. Initially, this was a proposal that might have been interesting for the Progress Party, but there have been some things that have happened since the Workers' Party presented its proposal on 23 March this year. We didn't want to go into this right now, because it's part of the assumptions that have changed. New and interesting information relating to the case has come, which is important for the basis of the whole case. We want to look at that in more detail. This, we think, is an advantage in dealing with the revised national budget, since this is precisely part of the national budget, not least in relation to the matter we have today. So no, it's not just one way to support Norwegian seafarers, to vote in favour of the Workers' Party's proposal. It's to bring it up where it belongs, namely in the context of the revised national budget and get a decision there, which I'm sure will be made. Just because we oppose the proposal of the Labour Party this time, it does not mean, as I said, that we are done with the matter from our side. We're going to do what we can for the seafarers, but it's going to be done the best and the right way. We have to take seriously all the claims about errors in processes that we get, so that the Storting can take its decisions based on facts and honesty. It deserves the Norwegian sailor, Norwegian shipping companies and the Norwegian people. Finally, the Progress Party supports the proposal to attach the matter to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2028	Let me start by saying that of course the Center Party also wants Color Line, a company that does an important job, to continue as a Norwegian fleet team. I have to say that I get the most tired after listening to the previous article. That a thing to do is to make a discussion about the work and future of 700 seafarers into a discussion about what happened in 1987 is pretty pathetic, because this case is about me now to open up so that Color Line is allowed to flag two ships to NIS and put 700 Norwegian seafarers on land, or not. I mean two things are almost shocking in this case. For the first role that the Minister of Industry has taken as a kind of Captain Kid up to the whole, where he just blindly conveys, without any kind of assessment, numbers from Color Line as the basis for his conclusion. We ask: is the Norwegian register so much worse than the Danish international register? We get the answer: yes, he referred to the range selection, which got numbers from Color Line, numbers from 2012 and 2013. By the way, the 2013 figure is equal to the number of Color Line's deficit that same year. We ask, what is the reason for these numbers? We don't get any answers. I wonder: How were the competition challenges in 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017? That must be pretty interesting when we're going to make a decision in 2018. But it seems that this is more about ideology than a desire to secure Norwegian seafarers. The next thing that's shocking in this case is the Progress Party's behavior. We listened at Political Quarter today Morten Ørsal Johansen shows everything the Progress Party had been on. But the Progress Party is not even included in the small straw stroke of a positive note that is in the option. Where the Progress Party has chosen to stand outside. In this case, the Advance Party does not sail only under flags of advantage or false flag; they sail under flags of sail. They died because of the 700 which could become a frame, and they ended up making it fastest possible. It is correct that there is a positive comment in the setting. Then I am surprised when I suddenly hear that this will be clarified in the revised version. Only one of the four parties is behind the plural remark, which is in the debate on the revised budget. Progress has not been made on this issue, but it is when the Minister of Industry can answer the points raised in that note, for example. that no hearing has been carried out since the substantial change in the proposal or doubt has been expressed as to whether or not those who supplied the material to the basis were Hatile. It's when the government has examined and can give the Storting a good answer to it, that the Storting is ready to draw a conclusion. Debates of the European Parliament We expect a comprehensive review of the statements that are the basis for changes in the scope of the vessel selection, and then we don't want to talk for 2012 and 2013, we want to talk about what this looks like in 2017, and what it looks like in the years before that. They're relevant when we're going to make our decision in Stortinget. The centre party is very clear that this case is about a decision – which is now on the government’s table – that has now been brought into the main hall. It's not about what happened in 1987 or 1990, it's about 700 Norwegian seafarers and their family, and it's about the extent to which the Council of State and the majority of the population want a decision that's drawn on the basis of facts, or about a desire that it be drawn on the basis of ideology.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2047	This matter is specific and limited. It's about a simple rule for foreign ferries, the shipping regulations, and she should be able to handle the Storting. But for 700 people and their families, there is a danger that the workplaces will disappear, and it can only be the beginning of a major conversion, where there will be fewer Norwegian seafarers on Norwegian ships. What the opposition, very simple, wants, is to raise the regulation to the Storting, which the Storting has every right to do when we think it's factual, good reasons for it. Our point is that this shipping area regulation for international ferries first of all builds on an old fact-finding basis. It's substantially changed. According to the investigative instructions, when substantial changes occur, a new anchoring must be added. An extension from 175 nautical miles to 300 – it is longer than the distance from Oslo to Copenhagen – one is probably south of Sweden with such an extension. There is an unexplained fact-finding basis at many levels, and not least indications of a possible mix of roles. With that in mind, the opposition would like to have a new assessment. I think it's crazy that it's possible to show such an arrogance from the government, and don't want to welcome that message from the opposition – it's totally incomprehensible to me. And there we have the Progress Party, which has said that they are the Seamen's Party. So the gap is today, as revealed as the Progress Party is today – the party that has left what they may once have started that, and that has now really taken place among the elite in Norwegian industrial policy. Here it is bang hard fight for liquorice pipes and Segway, but the long-lasting battle of Norwegian seafarers loses. And I don't really doubt the commitment of the representative Ørsal Johansen to the seafarers – his personal commitment I don't doubt in a second – but he has so much impact in his own party that it just keeps going and going. Norway is a sea country. We're a seaman. More than one other country in the world we have lived by the sea. We have the second longest coastline in all the world, we've been exposed to the sea all the years. The first people who settled in Norway came because of the sea – they even came to Norway by the sea and settled out there. That's what our past has, that's what our present is, and that's what's going to be our future – unless one does something on the basis of being Norwegian, living in Norway and living by the sea. That's what this government is about, that's the foundation that is now destroying. It's completely incomprehensible that we can have a party like the Progress Party, that with their emphasis on being a sailor's party, they can sit here with their heads raised and watch.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2058	When the government of Solberg presented its maritime strategy in 2015, maritime opportunities – blue growth for the green future, the Christian People's Party gave its support to the content of the strategy paper. One important reason for this was that the government met the Christian People’s Party on several points, including: in the case of measures to strengthen the green shift in the maritime industry and to strengthen maritime competence. In the maritime strategy, the government showed, among other things: to the need for the renewal of the short sea shipping fleet, including the potential for environmental improvement as part of the fleet renewal. We in the Christian People's Party are pleased that the government delivers on that point by supporting our initiative to investigate an environmental top-level financing scheme for Norwegian shipping companies in another matter on the Stortinget agenda today. Another central element in the preparation of the government’s maritime strategy was the question of how the limitations of the sea area in the Norwegian International Ship Register, NIS, and the arrangement of the reimbursement system for seafarers could contribute to ensuring a strong Norwegian maritime competence environment in the future. The recommendations of the Government-appointed Maritime Committee on these issues provided an important basis for the conclusions of the Maritime Opportunities Strategy Paper – Blue Growth for the Green Future. Here, we have reason to stress that the purpose of assessing these issues was to ensure Norwegian maritime competence, not to save money on the state budget through a reduction in the number of seafarers who are subject to the reimbursement schemes at all times. In January of last year, the government started a process of implementing the demarcated embellishment of the sea area limitations for foreign ferries as a majority of the Maritime Committee recommended in 2014. This was done by sending a proposed change to the operating area regulations for foreign ferries to be consulted. In February of this year the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries announced a planned amendment to the Regulation on the operating area of passenger ferries on international voyages, which will allow the flag of vessels from the Norwegian Ordinary Register of Ships, NOR, to be flagged to NIS. It is in line with the recommendations of the Maritime Committee, but we in the Christian People's Party record that the assumptions made by the Maritime Committee for its conclusions in 2014 have been substantially changed until today. One thing is the exchange rates, which have changed, but the reimbursement system for vessels registered with NOR is also significantly strengthened in the years after 2014 – a significant change, among others. by removing the ceiling for grants. Consequently, questions may be raised as to whether any competitive disadvantages resulting from the registration of vessels in NOR, which some operators claimed in 2014, have been completely or partially eliminated. For us in the Christian People's Party, this is a very central element in the matter. In 2015, we were willing to assess changes to the Regulation as one of several actions to improve the competitive conditions of Norwegian shipping companies and thus ensure Norwegian maritime competence in the future. There was never – and still is – any point in itself for us to implement legislative changes to reduce government expenditure on the reimbursement scheme for seafarers. We are in favour of it, precisely because a red refund scheme is the most important tool we have to ensure that Norwegian shipping companies can have Norwegian employees on board on competitive terms and to ensure recruitment to Norwegian maritime jobs. At the same time, it is a fact that the Christian People's Party has concluded a budgetary agreement with the government for the current financial year. Given that a reflagging of foreign ferries from NOR to NIS does not have the proceeds for 2018 that were taken into account in the submission of the State budget last autumn, but is expected to receive it for the coming year in the event of a reflagging, we have chosen to address the issue of an amendment of the sea area regulation in the context of the examination of the revised national budget. We then want to have an assessment of the need for changes in relation to the situation in 2014. The Christian People's Party will therefore not vote in favour of the proposal by the minority in this matter. We also refer to the comments in the committee position that the Christian People's Party is in.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2075	Red is against social dumping, to countries like water. That's why we say no to the Color Line shipowners getting flagged to the NIS register and putting 700 Norwegian seafarers on land. Arguments to flag the Color Line if it has expired. The accounts are based on poor figures for the financial year 2013, while the economy of the company has improved sharply since then. The owners of the company do not depend on the savings they would get from replacing Norwegian seafarers with foreign personnel on a lower salary basis to continue operating the company. Nevertheless, the Minister of Industry facilitates this social dumping at sea. We almost get to say that the Morten Ørsal Johansen of the Progress Party said it so well: «Rights are the shipowners’ party». But what Ørsal Johansen said in the next sentence, we can't just sign, when he said that the Advance Party is the Seafarers' Party. He would even have a mutiny against the Right in the government, and not only that: «We are the last chance of the mariners», as Per Sandberg said at the National Meeting of the Progress Party. But today the Progress Party is voting for the shipowners. Talk about going up like a lion and down like the Right obedient joint dog. There was a bit of suss over Ørsal Johansen's attack on the shipowner's party on the Right. There was something brave about it. But today Ørsal Johansen remembers more about Ludvig in Flåklypa: ‘It’s fali, it’. What seafarers need is a party they can trust – not a “Ludvig party”. If Ørsal Johansen has any shame, he goes up to the pulpit here today and complains to the 700 seafarers and their families that he has bluffed them straight up in the face. And if he believes that action should follow words, he agrees with the opposition to the shipowner's party Right in this case at the vote later this evening. Many parties have been concerned with sustainability issues in this matter, including the Progress Party – i.e. the stability of the external actor who has provided parts of the basic material for the recommendations of the Maritime Committee. The opposition asks the government to address these questions and inform the Storting of its conclusions on the problem of stability. Nor does this support the Progress Party. It is not surprising that confidence in politicians is falling when we have elected people who run from promises they give in the media and national meetings. Fortunately, the majority are in favour of seeking facts and backtracking and, of course, Red agrees with the comment on the question of viability. The uncertainty is the government's follow-up to the majority's observation in practice. For us, it is important to stress the following: we expect a new consultation round on the proposal for a regulation change. We expect all the facts on which the case is based to be reviewed by neutral and competent actors. We also expect the government to set aside enough time for a proper handling of the matter, in the interests of the 700 seafarers in Color Line who deserve a thorough handling of the matter. Then I have to say that this case puts Siv Jensen's attempt to say that the Progress Party is the workers' party, in a strange light. It's not unique either. In the revised budget, the Progress Party provides Norwegian workers with a competitive advantage for non-resident workers, a tax subsidy for those travelling to Norway on short-term contracts for employment agencies, in a situation where 100,000 workers and workers are unemployed in Norway. It is at the top of a headless increase in the sugar levy that brings cheers on the other side of the Swedish border but affects Norwegian jobs and the Norwegian food industry, plus that they support the non-regulated labour flow of the EEA Agreement, which gives price competition on pay and working conditions. If this is to stand on the side of the workers, then I'm the queen of England. Now the Color Line case is going to be in the Finance Committee. Red will closely follow the case there. We have not given up the fight to preserve the jobs on Color Line, and we will – unlike the Progress Party – support seafarers, not only in words, but also in action.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2094	The President would remind the representative of Moxnes that the word ‘bløff’ has previously been spoken of as an unparliamentary expression and, on a general basis, reminds the representative that it is necessary to be careful to give characteristics to other representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2100	It's not wrong to be a company dog.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2105	Next speaker is Councillor Torbjørn Røe Isaksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2110	Let me start with the conclusion in this matter: the Labour Party proposal does not have a majority. There are also no other proposals that have a majority. A majority comment has some views on the process. I'll go into some of that later. Comments have different status to suggestion. Proposals are imposed on the government, comments are political signals. But of course we, and I as the Council of State, read the majority remarks. We're also a minority government. I can't now conclude in detail how we're going to follow it up, but at least I've noticed the majority's comments. So a little bit about the history of this matter – the government has said the same in this case over several years. It's not because it's been a simple matter, it's not because it's simple assessments. This is about jobs. It's about 700 employees on the one hand who might lose their jobs, on the other hand, it's argued that it's up to 2,300 or 2,500 jobs that could get lost. The government has taken this discussion. It did not start as a discussion on Color Line, it started as a discussion on the framework conditions for the entire maritime industry in Norway, but in particular on the framework conditions for Norwegian seafarers. That is why the Speed range selection was put down and delivered its cancellation in 2014. The representative Knag Fylkesnes said this could be the start of a larger conversion. To that I would say, No, there's no way, because the big conversion came in the wake of the Speed range selection. It came with this government. The recommendations made in the government's maritime strategy in 2015 were followed, where there were a number of proposals on how to strengthen not only maritime nutrition but also the conditions for Norwegian seafarers. This is what has done that the net pay system, which I am now told by the Ministry to call the ‘support scheme for employment of seafarers’, is so strongly strengthened. This is why it has been extended to new areas, for example: also to NIS ships. It is important to stress, perhaps especially as regards what is now claimed, as far as I have seen, before I read it in the big comments, that this came first and foremost from a campaign orchestrated by a competing shipping company, which has also been mentioned earlier. But then it's important to remember that the Speed Committee was made up of parties. Too many people tend to be the gold standard for samples that are put down in Norway. There were the shipping companies and employees who set up the employees and trade unions. They had multiple angles of incidence. One of them was that they should strengthen the arrangements for seafarers. That's what they came up with. Then they were to evaluate different types of decoration in the area, that is, where ships can sail, and under what conditions. These include: Therefore, we distinguish between two ship registers — one abroad and one national. It is because all parties in the sample realized that this is an incredibly competitive industry that can easily be flagged out. In fact, there is only one company left today that has passenger traffic between Norway and ports in the Nordic region that is registered and has its jobs fully here — at least as registered in Norway. When the problem with Color Line came up, there were two things the sample had to take into account. Firstly, it was the reasoning of Color Line, who said that in the longer term they are dependent on good competitive conditions so that they should not be in danger of flying out. The second was a restriction that all public authorities have, namely that in sum, public authorities cannot simply propose things that cost, because we in this room should also give priority to school students, health, the elderly, culture, poverty reduction and psychiatry. In other words, there's a constraint for any selection that some of the solutions have to make the total going up. The fasite of the sum here is no doubt about it. We spend much more money on Norwegian seafarers under this government than we did before. We spend money because Norwegian seafarers are a crucial part of the maritime cluster. That's why we're using 2 billion. kr per year for Norwegian seafarers. It's huge sums. At that time, the assessment also came that based on a unified numerical basis – so it was agreed on both the numerical basis provided by, among other things. Color Line, and what was ordered from Menon, otherwise a process that followed all the tendering rules, and where it was the party-combined sample itself that decided for the supplier – it was agreed that one faced a dilemma, namely: Should one allow the reflagging, flagging, of two ships, from NOR to NIS, which was what you arrived at last, or would one perhaps stand in a situation where one risked that all the functions, up to 2,300 jobs, were at risk? And this isn't theoretical; many ships have been flagged out, and shipping companies have flagged out. You can disagree honestly on any political matter, but that is the starting point. And the starting point for the government in 2014 and 2015, in the maritime message presented to the Stortinget, was that this had to be seen in the context. It wasn't just good news, but first of all it had a lot of good news, including the maritime news. to strengthen the arrangements for Norwegian seafarers, which we have also seen have an impact. Then this was to be carried out in line with what a majority – not unanimously, but a majority – of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection intended us to do. The reason why these things aren't viewed in context, that we don't debate it at the same time, is that it also has to be notified in ESA, and it's been a longer process. That's why the bad news comes, you could say, after the good news. There are two questions that come up. One thing is, will this have major consequences for the rest of the Nordic region? The first response from the Department is that the change that has been made — the change from 175 to 300 nautical miles — which, moreover, has created new counterpowers again, makes it much, much less likely. The second is that we don't think a type of investigation will provide new information about that. A number of issues have also been raised in the minority committee's comments, which were mentioned in particular by individual actors in 2015, but which Stortinget, I am aware of, have not been raised in the past. Among other things, it is believed that there are problems related to it. Once again, it is only to stress that the Committee of the Regions, where the parties were represented, decided who should have the investigation. There were several candidates, and one actor was finally selected. Everything was done according to Norwegian laws and regulations. The second is that the framework conditions have changed – and it is clear that some framework conditions always change. The course goes up and down. The oil price goes down, now it might go up. My starting point in this debate is that we cannot create a long-term maritime policy based on it. We also need to think about what in the longer term gives the most jobs in Norway. So I've always stressed that neither the Maritime Committee nor the Ministry goes in and analyses individual company arrangements or accounts down in minimum detail, than asking for insight into all the strategic decisions that governments are discussing. What we can relate to is the thorough work that the sample has done, but also the Color Line, which mentioned the shipping company, wrote when we announced that our intention was still the same as in 2015, namely to implement this regulation: that then all plans for flagging out are put in a drawer – freely quoted. It's not precision science, but with this backstop, the government has said the same thing in 2015, 2016, 2017 and today, in 2018. I notice that there are majority comments that believe that further information is needed. I don't go into it any more in detail now, but I just want to remind you of what has always been the main points of the government party, that this is in any case a discussion about jobs. That is why it is also difficult. There is no reason to take over 700 people with mortgages and families who are now worried about losing their jobs. Our assessment has been to look up to what is, of course, a worst case scenario, to put 2,300 jobs at risk, it's been the conclusion we've drawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2152	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2157	It's really quite annoying to hear a Right-State Council boasting that they're using 2 billion. kr on the seafarers, without mentioning how much they spend on the shipowners or shipping companies – which is the multiple of this. It is clear that we need a complete diet to be a maritime nation and not least to maintain a strong maritime cluster in Norway. Then I end up asking a question related to what the Council of State initially said, that a majority comment at best is a political signal. No, he didn't say at best, but it's a political signal – it should be right. It's quite boldly said by a state council in a minority government, which is stubbornly dependent on the majority of the population. So I ask now for the sake of order: does the Council of State intend to follow what is stated in the majority opinion, which is absolutely essential, and which I know that very many of the seafarers already hope will give a result: that the amendment of the regulation is actually not being implemented?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2162	It becomes a little more difficult to answer with the last addition of Aasland, for the representative of Aasland, stressing that neither the Workers' Party had finally concluded, but they only wanted more information on this matter. I felt that, first of all, there was a sober description of how the landfill code is. But then I guess I felt like I was going quite far. When I say that I notice that the majority has a comment, it's politicians' language that I've read what's written there. And I'm aware that we're a minority government. What that will mean, I can't go into detail now. We have to see what the conclusions are here, and then we have to look at how we're going to follow it up. Then I fully agree with the representative of Aasland that that is a reason why we have, for example. an exceptionally favourable tax regime for Norwegian shipowners, and therefore also for Norwegian shipowners. It's also for the sake of the maritime cluster. And it needs both Norwegian seafarers and shipping companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2171	To the last point, we are in complete agreement. I just want a very clear confirmation from the Council of State that he intends to follow up on the majority comment and to present the results of what the majority asks the government to review, and that this is presented to the Storting in an appropriate manner before any change is made.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2176	It is not possible – or, that is possible, but I do not intend to answer it more clearly now than I have done. A majority comment is a majority comment. We're a minority government. I see clearly what the majority is writing. I also see what points the majority point to where they think they have more information. And of course, a government must also take into account what a majority on the Biggest believes in the form of a comment, but how it should be followed up, we must come back to. That's what the majority comments are.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2181	If I were among those who did not now vote in favour of the minority proposal in the Storting, I would be very uncertain about what to do, as the Council of State approaches a very clear majority comment on what to expect the government to do: review and present results to the Storing before – and that is essential – any regulatory change is made. I ask again: is there any reason why the Council of State would encourage those who are in favour of this remark, and who are in the hands of the Council of State, to vote in favour of the minority's proposal, so that it is absolutely certain that the government will return to the Stortinget with a result before the changes are implemented?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2186	First of all, of course, I would not encourage you to vote in favour of the minority proposal, I would urge the majority to do what the majority has said they should do. They have done so without my assistance in the Great Britain Committee. It's clear you can hear things in different ways, but I think I'm pretty clear – at least as clear as I'm willing to be now – on how we've both thought to perceive and follow up this majority remark. There is no government council that wants to be dragged to the Stortinget to reverse a regulation, which is, quite rightly, the government's prerogative, but which, on the whole, has to have a anchoring in a majority on the Stortinget. I don't want that either.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2196	In his speech, the Council of State said that he started with the conclusion, and it may seem to me that the conclusion has come first. According to the central party's view, the fact should come first, and then a conclusion draws from it. This case boils down to what competitive disadvantage it has to be registered in NOR versus being registered in the Danish ship register. The numbers we've got, you're from 2012. That's $118 million. kr. In 2013, it was 154 million. kr. When we're going to make a decision in 2018, I think it's pretty relevant to know what this figure was in 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017. So my question to the council is, does he have these numbers, and does he intend to share them with the council? And can the Council of State possibly do it now?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2203	The committee has also asked about this, and I have said that we have not done new, detailed calculations in recent years. It is also obvious that the framework has changed since 2014 – everyone knows that. Everyone knows that the exchange rate is different and is favourable to any shipping company in Norway. Everyone knows that lower oil prices, for example, are coming out positively. What's important is the last part of this, and it's that the company also mentioned here comes out more favorable just because it's now NOR-registered. And once the government and the Storting have strengthened the net pay system for seafarers, the shipping company also comes out positively. I have to go back to two of my main points. One is that this is about long-term politics, not just seeing a snapshot here and now. This is the only Norwegian passenger company on international voyages left in Norway. The second is that this was also the subject of political agreement in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection – by a majority, not unanimously.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2210	I'm recording that the government doesn't want to give us those numbers. I think that the Council of State should do that, and if the Council of State reads the comments from the majority, I see it there that a desire is not just a full review of the old numbers, a desire for up-to-date numbers. My next question is simply: for a fleet team operating ferry operations between Kiel and Oslo, which register is best, NOR or DIS?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2217	It is a very healthy thing in Norway that we are not the elected representatives, neither big-scale politicians nor state councils, who sit and take the decisions that companies and businesses must make, and for which we also have clear rules: there must be processes, there must be good dialogue with trade unions, etc., etc. That means I'm not able to give that kind of judgment – we're not on the board and have no detailed overview of everything going on in businesses in Norway, that way, with the exception of state-owned, of course. What we can do is, to put it very simply, we can take from what a public sample has worked thoroughly with, a number material that was agreed. The trade union side also agreed with the figures, not all in the conclusion. And then we can make an assessment of what makes sense in the longer term. We also have to deal with a business that says they're in danger of moving out of the country. We must take that seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2226	I also took note of the opinions of the Council of State on the majority comment, but I believe that it will be well taken care of. After all, we have now addressed it in the context of the revised national budget. In that note, there is a problem which is quite specific, and which I want to ask the Council of State. It is part of the consultation process around the shipping regulations. When it was put out for consultation in January last year, the minimum length of sailing was 175 nautical miles. When one now announced that one would change the regulation, it had changed to 300 nautical miles, and as far as we've registered, the proposal for a new shipping regulations has not been reconsulted. That later to be contrary to the investigation regulation § 3-3 second paragraph. I would like the Council of State to assess whether he sees this as something that needs to be corrected before someone implements it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2233	I wasn't a business minister then, but I can still say something about it. Overall, there is a consultation obligation in Norway. But then there is also a rule that there should be significant changes to a proposal and some other different criteria to re-consult it. It goes without saying that there's a beauty element there too. When it comes to the changes from 175 to 300, it was a very simple thing. It was that both from our neighbouring countries and from the trade unions, it was said that with a limit of 175 you would risk doing just that minority that has now made a proposal, namely to start a kind of race in the Nordic region. In order to prevent that, you put it in 300. The scheme thus became more restrictive. It was then assessed by the Ministry of Industry that the change did not involve such a substantial or different type of device that it was necessary to send it to a new hearing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2242	Then the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2247	This is serious. There are 700 Norwegian seafarers who, together with their families, know a lot of uncertainty now. It's a broad commitment across the country to make sure that these 700 families still know about security in the next few years. The question is whether skilled workers in Norway should be replaced with low-paid workers. The question is whether we should give priority to ensuring good distribution, or whether the richest will be even richer. Differences in Norway are increasing, and this is a completely conscious choice from the Right, they want to take from 700 Norwegian seafarers their jobs and replace them with low-paid labour. This issue is therefore far more important than allowing oneself to stand here and use technicalities and policy-making languages. It is as Francis Sejersted writes in the book on Right History: «Rights have always served as an interest party for the bettered in society.» The right now makes sure to outrun them in the government that may be fighting for the seafarers, so that these 700 seafarers might lose their job and their safety. Kim Mathisen is one of the 700. He is alone father of two, and he says to the Newspaper that he is very uncertain about how he will possibly deal with losing his job. The job is family security. You can come up here and draw both one and the other reasoning that development can be different if you don't. But it shows something even more serious. It shows that the Right-Let Color Line dictates what the policy should be like in Norway. In other words, you are an interested party for the better. Clearly, it cannot be said. And when you admit it yourself from this pulpit, yeah, then the story is complete. It's not just the seamen who get poorer if this should get a majority. Society's getting poorer. For the honest job that the seafarers do, it's not just about their families. No, it's about experiences, it's about security, it's about service on board. One of the passengers who is faithful to Color Line today, Bjørg Vestvik, says clearly: "It is absolutely terrible that these jobs are put to stake." She tells the newspaper that she is delighted to go with Color Line precisely because of the service that skilled professionals provide her. This matter is therefore a matter of social views. Should Workers Become Poorer? Should society become poorer? Or are we going to say that there's something more important? It's about living in a country where the differences between people have to be small. People are going to have work, and it's going to be a better future for kids growing up today. That's why I want to give the Council of State, the Minister of Industry, right in one thing today: it's politicians' language that's been used. There's one way to fix this. It is to ensure that the 700 employees at Color Line can continue to exercise their profession, provide people with experiences, security and service, and not least that their kids will be able to face a safe future. I sincerely hope that in Stortinget we can manage to create the better future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2264	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2269	First to the Council of State: this is not about entering into the assessments that the company is to make; it is about having an overview of which framework conditions are best – the Norwegian or Danish ones. We must be able to expect a government council to have that. This debate has also dealt a great deal with the history of the Progress Party, the creative story of history that brought us back to 1987, but the jam had not been faulted by the representative Ørsal Johansen, too, for the Maritime and Fisheries Committee to deal with in conjunction with Innst. S No 37 for 1986–1987 a proposal from Carl I. Hagen to introduce the NIS register. So in that case, too, the Progress Party was one driver. The story that Ørsal Johansen wants to tell is wrong. I think it was a reasonable decision. I took her to illustrate the double game that the Progress Party is involved in this case. They have a national meeting that says: ‘The party considers it to be unfortunate if the consequences of a change of rules result in Norwegian seafarers being put on land.’ To the newspaper, First Nestleier, Per Sandberg, said: ‘ Frp is the seafarer’s last chance.’ [[...]] And Sandberg went on to say, ‘It is incredibly important to have Norwegian seafarers on Norwegian ships.’ Now we see what happened when the party is in government. I see that the Council of State Sandberg is in the Chamber, and I think it would have been real if Per Sandberg had taken advantage of the opportunity he has as the Council of State to go to the pulpit and complain to the seafarers that the Progress Party has failed them in the most serious way in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2293	The advance party has sailed under a false flag. For a long time they have given seafarers and us who are concerned with Norwegian seafarers, a hope that the Progress Party would help save the jobs of 700 Norwegian seafarers. The Workers' Party has proposed to ask the Government to wait to introduce the regulation allowing shipping companies to transfer the ferries to NIS. Now that the Committee has spent a great deal of time giving its position to the Stortinget, it has given hope that the Progress Party, like the Workers' Party, would also be concerned that there will be Norwegian seafarers here to land for the future, but that will not be the Advance Party. The lesson is that the Progress Party is more concerned with supporting its own government than securing jobs for Norwegian seafarers. The progressing party thus shows that they are closer to shipowners than most seafarers. By not taking responsibility in this matter, the Progress Party shows that they are a party to a government that makes a difference to people. The representative, Dag Terje Andersen and I are involved in promoting this proposal from the Workers' Party, and there are many good reasons for this. Every one of our seafarers in Sandefjord and in Westfold is among these good reasons. We appreciate our seafarers, and we want them into the future. It is a pity that the Progress Party and the government do not share this desire with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2303	The representative Pollestad described the story as it really was in 1987. There was something quite different than what came out of the representative Ørsal Johansen's mouth. Secondly, in 2005 there were 9,200 seafarers in Norway, in 2013 there were 12,100, and now it is assumed to be 11,500. So it's pretty much nonsense that comes out when you argue the way it was done instead. At least that wasn't the truth. This, of course, is a value debate. Media has been used to try to represent the Progress Party as a party that stands up for Norwegian seafarers. This debate clearly shows that they do not. The second thing that has emerged quite clearly in the debate is that the hope that lies in a majority comment is actually much more unclear now, after the Council of State has misjudged it so much that there should be considerable uncertainty about it. The next, which is quite essential, is that the Council of State and the Government do not have an up-to-date factual basis for what they are now going to decide, if they choose to do the regulatory change. It is a crossroads of thought that the Council of State is unable to answer about, for example: the relationship between NOR and NIS. It's quite essential. It is quite essential to know what must happen in the continuation of NOR if we are to have Norwegian seafarers in the future. But you don't know that, and the majority today agree to a proposal to acquire that knowledge. Understand the one who can. That's why there's every reason to stress what the Minister of Industry of the Degrees agreed to in his statement, that the Right is the shipowners' party, and that the Advance Party is heading for. It might be interesting to hear the representative Morten Ørsal Johansen explain what he intends to achieve in relation to the revised national budget. It might also have been interesting to hear what the representative Steinar Reiten thinks about it, and it might have been interesting to hear if the Council of State Sandberg wholeheartedly supported them in government, considering that the party of progress is to be the «last score of the sailors». The government isn't the last chance of the seafarers. The party of progress today is not the last chance of the seafarers. Maybe it's time to get a little reality in terms of what they support in the Storting, and what they allow themselves to say outside the Storing, in relation to a microphone or a journalist.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2320	The president can't find the word "stupid" on the list of unparliamentary expressions, but it wasn't very nice, so it might have been there.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2325	As far as the half-parliamentary expressions are concerned, it has been good with them during this debate, from Princess Will not – I'm sorry, Queen Moxnes – to what was now presented from the pulpit. I think the whole debate and Norwegian seafarers deserve us to take it down a little bit. I fully agree with the Sandtrøen representative that it is serious, but at the same time one should realize that neither one side of this room has anything but real and proper care for those who work on board Norwegian ships. To those who describe the Right as the shipowners' party: sailors need ships, ships need shipowners. Is there none of them, neither ships nor shipowners, nor are there seafarers. So this is related. All of these are dependent on each other, and if you make the ratios good for the totality of the Norwegian maritime cluster, everyone gets better out of it. We have two different risk assessments in this room today. I want to ensure the most Norwegian seafarers on Norwegian ships by ensuring me and us against the possibility of flagging too much, that the probability of flagging is too high. Others in this room do not share that assessment, but there is no doubt that you also take a relatively high risk if you choose to put at risk 2,300 jobs because you think it saves 700. We're going to include that in this. I want to say that there is no one in this room who does not care for the seafarers on board – we all do – but we have different risk assessments of how that should happen. It is clear that if this company were to fly out – if it were to fly out – every three times they can do what they have said here today about the danger of the 700 families. That's what we share. And that's the responsibility we share: to ensure that in the long term this becomes safe jobs, with proper working conditions for Norwegian seafarers. Then we agree that we have slightly different assessments of how we best do it, but it doesn't make sense that we use harsh words about each other's intentions in these matters. On the contrary, we all – all – have the best intentions to do the best we can to ensure the best possible conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2336	In the Questionnaire, Prime Minister Erna Solberg was given the opportunity to say what she wanted to communicate to the 700 employees on Color Line – if she dared to see them in her eyes. Unfortunately, this was a politician's language. There was political language, as the Minister of Industry pointed out, that we have to try to avoid. I think it was very good, as one of the very engaged Norwegians wrote. She thought it was alarming that we could have a prime minister balding and choosing with other people's lives in this way. That is the whole reason why there is a temperature in the case. Of course, there is a temperature in a matter that is about the future of 700 seafarers, their kids and families – it should just be missing. This is a fundamental value debate. Therefore, it is only weak by the Prime Minister not to give a proper answer to the specific question. Then it is weak that she is not here either, now that the matter is being discussed. She could have taken part in it and explained why the Color Line should dictate the policy. I got a message during the debate that was quite illustrative: Where has the Progress Party gone off on this pulpit? We've just heard a little bit. Councillor Sandberg has received an invitation to come up here – he has not yet appeared in the pulpit. There are some things that deserve extra attention, both because in this room the life of people in Norway will be determined, and because one says that politics is serious. Therefore, it would have been right for more people to come up here and tell us why it is right that Color Line should dictate the Norwegian policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2345	There were two things that made me draw myself all the way down. One is that the representative Pollestad asked me questions about where it was best for Color Line to be registered, in DIS or NIS. The representative of Aasland then tried to make a point that the ministry had no evaluation of DIS or NIS at all. Of course, that's not right. That is what the representative of Aasland knows, because the committee has asked questions about this. The Committee has asked many questions as to whether this has been the case. Some of them have even received an answer within the same day because it is an important matter. The reason why the Ministry believes that DIS and NIS are comparable is that they are both international ship registers, but also because they allow foreign seafarers to be employed on their home country's wage and working conditions in order to be competitive globally. I have responded fully to why the government has made the assessments it has made, which are similar to what a majority of the Committee on the Navigation Area has done. What, of course, is not acceptable to a Council of State to respond to at all times is – given the economic consequences – where it is right now, with 100 pst. security is best registered. What we can say for sure, is that the company we're talking about here, repeatedly to the Storting, publicly, has underlined that such a change will make all plans to flag out, be put in the drawer. The second is the claim that this will mean some sort of fury for Norwegian seafarers. The truth, as I also stressed in my article, is that the policy that has been pursued means the opposite. Since 2012 until today, we have increased the payments, the net pay system for Norwegian seafarers, by 400 million. kr. We have extended the net pay system to new areas, including: NIS ships, precisely because we are busy having maritime competence, Norwegian seafarers, a full Norwegian cluster. It is quite right, as the representative of Aasland says, that we also have very favourable tax conditions for the shipping companies – with exactly the same reason. Therefore, a blue-green government for public support to Norwegian seafarers, while the Workers' Party now – I'm not sure if it's historic – says they're in favour of a tax subsidy to the shipping companies, and therefore also the shipowners. It's to maintain the maritime cluster. Finally, there is no one who later like this case is simple, but it is not the most difficult for us. Of course, it is most difficult for those who now wonder if they have a job further. It is a tough decision to make, but my job as a government council is also to make difficult decisions. I do this because I believe that in the balance, it is important that we have a stable framework, but that we do not endanger another 2,000 jobs – or a little less.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2360	The representative of Terje Aasland has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2365	Let me start by saying that I'm sorry that I used the word "fucking" first. With that, I meant to say that when someone says something and does it the wrong way, it's both dishonest, dishonest and not least unfair – and then I've stayed in good parliamentary vocabulary. It's quite provocative. It is not least provocative for those who experience the injustice that a majority now imposes on many Norwegian seafarers. It's unworthy. And it's unworthy that big business representatives do it. We had an opportunity – and we still have an opportunity to vote tonight – to ensure that the Stortinget gets sufficient knowledge before the government makes any decision to implement the regulation. If not, I think it is worth stressing at the bottom of this debate that the Council of States cannot confirm very many of the information Stortinget's demand. We're going to follow up the majority comment in the position of the point and the dot and see what the Council of State is doing. If he does not follow up, the other proposal we have to consider in Stortinget will be.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2372	What's sad in this case is that there are actually multiple numbers on the Stortinget to stop implementing this regulation. It's actually plural. The progress party has really shown its true face. I see the next leader of the Progress Party, who is also in the government, sitting here. He said that the Advance Party was the last chance for the seamen. Yes, it was a bit of a chance to trust. Here you could really trust the Progress Party. When it really got tough, they left the scandal. The big question here is, everyone who sits in the Stortinget can vote exactly what they want – including people in the Advance Party. They may vote after having been over-interpreted, such as: Per-Willy Amundsen did for only some meetings since when it was about snowmobiles. He voted against that government and his own party had decided that one should vote, and voted after their own over-interpretation. The representative of Bjørnstad from the Progress Party did so in case of surrogati. He voted for his over-intelligence. Gisle Meininger Saudland from the Progress Party did so in case of start-up loans in the Husbank. Solvency Horne, former Minister, agreed with SV on measures to combat urban environmental damage. And Ørsal Johansen did it himself in the matter of Norwegian drug policy when he voted after his own over-interpretation. We'll see what this scan is worth. How many are there in the Progress Party who want to break with the plural they're part of, and vote after their own over-interpretation? How much money has been, all the statements they have had in newspapers, loud speeches at national meetings, and so on. How much is it? We're told, because not so many people from the Progress Party are needed to get a new situation in this room. If we don't know what that party is worth, and who they're with.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2381	The representative Geir Pollestad has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2386	I would also like to give the Council of State a signal on the tame of the debate that the Central Party will follow the plural note that is close, and we have a clear expectation that it will be reported back to the Storing properly, and that the parties in the Storing will be treated in a non-discriminatory manner when the information is provided. A brief comment on Per Sandberg's sketch: It seems to be a sketch made of paper, which is quite easily destroyed by seawater. I thought it was clever that the Vice-leader of the Progress Party, who is present in the Chamber, not to take the floor, but to leave to the Right to take this debate. There is no doubt that the Progress Party in this matter has failed Norwegian seafarers in the most serious way. The last time on May 2nd, they had the timely announcement of the national meeting. Now we have a fall off and a failure. There's a cause for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2393	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2409	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that – within the allocated speaking time – up to six rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2418	This is also an important issue for our maritime cluster, but perhaps not a matter of the same temperature in this room, because there is a unanimous nutrition committee that supports the amendment of the Export Credit Act Norway AS, in order to provide the opportunity to finance the purchase of ships from shipyards in Norway when these are also to be used in Norway. The scheme is on market terms and under the same conditions with access to equivalent national export credit systems with other OECD countries. It is also part of the EEA and WTO legislation. It will be temporary for three years and will be evaluated. The aim of the change is to increase the activity of shipyards in Norway and to remain competent in Norway and further develop it here. The scheme will apply to, inter alia: ferries, fishing boats, wellboats, short-sea vessels, speedboats and also conversion. The shipbuilding industry is of great importance for employment, value creation and district policy as well as for maintaining our leading maritime position. Fleet renewal allows testing of new innovations in environmental and climate technologies. The proposal has been widely consulted. Norwegian shipyards indicate that many new construction projects are planned, and they fear export leakage. They also refer to major fluctuations in the fishing industry and that, therefore, there should be the possibility of exemption during demanding periods. Norway’s Shipowners’ Federation calls for temporary top funding for short sea shipping in order to renew the fleet and test new innovations in environmental and climate technologies. New construction statistics for orders over 50 million. kr shows the importance of vessels for the aquaculture sector, while only five of the new Fjord1 ferries are to be built in Norway, and a large proportion of other special ships are to be contracted in Denmark and Turkey. Three out of four fishing boat contracts go abroad — including those mainly in Denmark and Turkey. Business organisations indicate that EU countries have better arrangements than Norway, even after its entry into force. It therefore asks the Government to implement a temporary top-level financing scheme under market conditions for short sea shipping, which is submitted to the Stortinge in an appropriate manner. The system should be designed to stimulate fleet renewal with the aim of reducing environmentally harmful emissions from the short sea shipping fleet. The Labour Party believes that the government should already look at measures to ensure that several ferries and fishing boats are built in Norway. For fishing boats, Denmark has become more attractive than Norwegian shipyards. A more flexible amortisation scheme should be considered which takes into account that fishing may fail one season. With this, I recommend the Committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2437	The yard is an important district industry, and therefore it is positive that we now have this case, which is a follow-up to a previous decision to raise funds. When I take the word now, it's because several of the hearing agencies wanted one to make this system permanent. However, what is at stake – which is also supported by the Centre Party – is that there should be a temporary loan and guarantee scheme for ships, and a notice that it should be evaluated before taking a decision on a possible continuation. An important point for the Centre Party is that this evaluation is done early enough, so that one can ensure that it is prudent for those who use the Scheme, so that one should not wait for months – or days – before the three-year period is over before knowing whether the Scheme will be permanent or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2444	Norway is one of the few countries with a complete maritime food cluster. It is the result of centuries of Norwegian shipping and shipbuilding. The continued leadership of Norway in what is perhaps the most globalised industry in the world, and where competition is tough every single day, is a result of innovative and forward-looking actors, in good interaction with authorities that value the innovation power and value creation found in this industry. In my home country, More and Romesdal, we have a maritime cluster that delivers world-class technology and competence, and we have reason to be proud of. It is incredible h innovative, adaptive and willing to stand in this cluster. The temporary loan and guarantee system we are debating today is helping to ensure the competence of the maritime cluster in the future. It was one of the really good news about the presentation of the state budget last fall that this came into place. The change will help Norwegian shipowners to obtain financing under market conditions and on equal terms with others in the OECD with access to equivalent national export credit schemes. This change will contribute to increased activity at shipyards in Norway and to maintaining competence in Norway. The scheme will, within the guarantee framework of 10 billion. kr for 2018, include a range of vessels, such as ferries, fishing boats, wellboats, short-sea vessels and speedboats. We believe this in the Christian People's Party is very good, and of course we want to welcome the arrangement. The Christian People's Party is also very pleased that a joint committee supports our proposal for an investigation into a temporary environmental top-level funding scheme. Such a temporary arrangement for short sea shipping has been called for by several actors which can also contribute to the renewal and development of more environmentally friendly shipping technology. Short sea shipping has a relatively old age and operates in a segment with high and rising costs and low margins. Newer and more energy-efficient ships are needed both to ensure that more freight transport is moved from road to sea and to reduce emissions of climate and environmental damage from the short sea shipping fleet. Fleet renewal can also facilitate the testing of new innovations on the environmental and climate technologies side. A temporary top-level financing scheme for short sea shipping, e.g. through GIEC and Export Credit Norway, in line with the other country established, will be important for the maritime environment in Norway. The Christian People's Party meets the investigation into a temporary top-financing scheme for the short sea shipping fleet, and we expect it to be submitted to the Stortinget as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2459	Here's the consensus, that's good. This is an important scheme. I will not go through it in detail again, just mention that it has been sent out to the hearing. We have received 14 hearing opinions, all hearing opinions with comments that are positive to the Ministry's proposal for legislative amendments. No objections or alternative proposals have been made in the consultation round. I also see that the Committee has requested temporary top-level funding for short sea shipping and come back to Stortinget with it appropriately. I'll do that. I also hear what the representative Pollestad says, and I would like to agree with that – also as a general principle, that we need to have evaluations so that we have enough time to see how the system works, but that it will not be an unnecessary stay until we can do something permanent. Since the office is also present in the hall, I then save the e-mail time to tell it from Stortinget's pulpit instead.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2468	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2473	Norway has a strong maritime cluster. While we were dealing with the matter, there were several recordings, including: whether it is with top finance, because after the financial crisis the requirement for equity has increased from 10 to 20 pst. and now up to 50-60 pst. But it has also come up with the notion that, for example: Spaniards have a top level of funding and some EU countries have requirements specifications that are adapted. The question is: Will the Minister also look at other measures, so that we really get equivalent framework conditions with the EU in particular?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2478	There is one specific and one overall answer to this. The specific answer is that with the wording ‘come back to Stortinget’ I follow what the majority of people ask me to do. The overall answer is that the government's policy is that Norway should be competitive as a maritime nation, and not just that – we should be world leaders, we should be best at sea and at the best at maritime level, we should grow further, defend and further develop our maritime clusters. All the input from and all the dialogue with the industry about framework conditions, things that change in other countries where we have to follow, I am interested in, and I will always meet those proposals with open ears and will be ready to investigate – mostly, at least.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2483	Thank you for a positive answer. Now we're looking forward to the result. One thing that surprised me is that only one in four new fishing boats are contracted in Norway, and Denmark in particular has become more competitive and preferred than the Norwegian shipyards. Some of the explanation is that we have built supply ships, and that we may have reduced our competence a little bit in building fishing boats, which are also an incredibly important part of the maritime cluster, and where we are also going to be completely in front. The question is, can you look at how to quickly rebuild your skills in the Norwegian shipyards, but perhaps also take into account that it is not as predictable for the fishing fleet? Even if you make money in the long term, you may have poor fish in a few years, which may turn out unlucky, and you may need a different risk assessment because of your peculiarity.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2490	It is a little difficult to address such a general issue – whether you can look at fishing boat schemes. The overall history of Norwegian shipyards is that after the fall in oil prices and after the order books from offshore dried up, there are a lot of people who have managed to change, ready to build new ones, among other things. within cruise, but also within fishing boats, within farming and within some other areas. I am not able to say on the stand whether you need own arrangements for exactly fishing boats, and how you might build up that competence, but now there is an emerging optimism in Norwegian shipyards, and I would say that some of the things the government has done have contributed strongly to it, among other things. through the tools GIEK and Export Credit.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2496	The cord shift is over. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2514	The issue of Norway’s fisheries agreements for 2018 and fishing under the agreements in 2016 and 2017 is an annual matter. It provides good information on fisheries policy and provides a useful overview of how the international fishing community operates and what is not working. Fisheries agreements are based on good and long-term traditions of long-term management work, which in turn provide the basis for us to harvest robust fish stocks, which in turn provide value creation and activity in and from our marine areas. We're dividing the whole 90 pst. of fisheries resources with other countries, and the cross-border cooperation that we have, is essential for us to have both long-term and sustainable management of resources. An example that has great value for Norway is the fisheries agreements concluded with the Soviet Union and later Russia that have served our country well. The cod in the Barents Sea is the most commercially important population in Norway and the Norwegian quota in 2017 was about 7.3 billion. kr. That is why more than half of the total values of the fisheries agreements come from Russia's agreements. The Committee takes the view, of course, that the best possible agreements are being reached for Norway, in the context of the overall objectives we have, which are about sustainable management and are intended to ensure that we have our legitimate share of the quotas, and that there is both good control over the enforcement of the management. The Committee has also said that it is important to take illegal fishing seriously. There is a serious threat to resources, and the Committee stresses the importance of international cooperation against this. It is also said that it is important that Norway has an active role — and that is important — in international maritime cooperation, both in legislative and administrative matters. Here it is important that Norway takes on and plays an important role. The Committee also considers that the recommendations of the National Audit Office following their findings on the management of fisheries in the North Sea and Skagerrak need to be followed up, as a number of weaknesses have been identified in the management of these areas. The Committee has also made proposals for an assessment of the availability of Norwegian fisheries legislation in English. With that, I would like to thank the Cooperation Committee and the vote is recommended.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2541	As the rapporteur points out, the fishing industry is of great importance to Norway and is likely to have a greater impact on Norway in the future. Therefore, sustainable management of marine resources is becoming more important and important in contributing to safe, robust fish stocks and value creation across the coast. And, as the rapporteur also points out, Norway shares 90 pst. of the fishing resources we harvest, with other countries. We cannot therefore manage these populations on our own, but depend on solid and long-term international cooperation. We have, and especially with Russia – it goes all the way back to the 1970s. The Committee highlights the importance of international control cooperation. This cooperation has been very important when we look at history, especially when we look at the decline in illegal fishing in the North-East Atlantic. The control agreement with the Faeroe Islands entered into force last January and we agreed to continue the control cooperation with the EU and Russia in 2018. Norway and the EU have also agreed to set up a working group for even better control of North Sea populations. In addition, the government has considerable efforts to combat fishing crime and focused on this issue during the Norwegian Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers last year. In September, the eight Nordic Fisheries Ministers issued a joint declaration against organised crime in the fishing industry. This is the world's first regional Ministerial Declaration on Fishing Crime. The Government will continue to actively contribute to the development and shaping of regional fisheries management organisations and contribute to other international cooperation for the good and sustainable use of marine resources. Norway is among others: one of the initiators of the International Port State Agreement, which entered into force after 25 countries had ratified it in June 2016. This was an important milestone in the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. There are now 53 parties to the agreement, and Norway was the host of the first state party meeting during the agreement last year. The Committee draws up the essential scientific basis for agreements. Then I want to say that the government prioritises marine research very high. In the period 2014 to 2017, allocations to marine research have increased by a total of 374 million. kr. One of the main objectives of international fisheries negotiations is to ensure that Norway receives a fair share of its common stocks. We have challenges in reaching agreement with the other coastal states on the distribution of mackerel, nvg herring and coal. This is something that I am very concerned about, and I stress that it is a goal for Norway to conclude agreements with all the coastal states concerned about shared populations. Everyone deserves to have coastal state agreements in place, but a future agreement must and must be balanced and not least safeguard our legitimate interests. It is also positive that we have managed to reach agreement with all the parties on a management plan and a total quota of both NVG and coal. Norway and the EU have also entered into a bilateral zoning agreement for NVG and coal. It is also positive that, since 2014, we have had a tripartite agreement on mackerel with the EU and the Faeroe Islands for a duration of five years. These are agreements that ensure good stability for Norwegian fishermen in 2018, although the mackerel agreement is now in its last year. Of course, I will continue to work because we will continue to negotiate the pelagic species during the year. Fisheries cooperation between Norway and Russia is and has been strong and good. This year we have celebrated the 60th anniversary of Norwegian-Russian research cooperation. The Committee points out that a large proportion of the Norwegian fisheries legislation exists only in Norwegian. There is no consistent practice in this field, nor does Norway receive translated texts from Russia, the Faeroe Islands or Iceland. The translation and maintenance of the entire legislation applicable to foreign vessels fishing in the Norwegian jurisdiction will have clear administrative and significant economic consequences. It is not a translation work that can be done by anyone in the administration, as there may be serious doubts about the legal status. That is why it will require a very large amount of work. Of course, based on the Committee's position, I would like to reconsider this and come back to Stortinget in an appropriate manner. Finally, this Communication illustrates the importance and breadth of international fisheries cooperation. Like the Committee, I want Norway to remain an important international partner in the future. We are one of the world's leading fishing nations, we are engaged in fisheries policy and have enormous competence and experience to contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2564	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox The President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 12 to 15 is treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2616	No one has asked to speak on the matter. 12–15.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2628	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2637	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Freddy André Supreme Court on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 4 and 5, by Jonas Gahr Støre on behalf of the Workers' Party There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to propose the necessary legislative changes in order to introduce the statutory right to full-time employment.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2663	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate the introduction of an equal pay law inspired by Iceland’s new law decision.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2680	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to investigate the introduction of third legal gender options and to return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner by the default session 2018–2019.’ The Labour Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2697	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a review of the gender effects of economic policy and for proposals to help reduce the economic differences between women and men.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2714	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to draw up an obligatory plan to reduce the proportion of part-time workers and to strengthen a full-time culture in Norwegian working life.’ The Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2732	The President proposes that the statement by the Minister for Children and Gender on the status of promoting equality and diversity in all sectors be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2740	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Kari Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, by Kari Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Olav Urbø on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 4, 5 and 8, by Geir Jørgen Bekkevold on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposal No 7, from Kari Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party There is a vote on proposal No. 8, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to ensure long-term and ongoing agreements with non-profit providers that lead to an increase in the proportion of non-profit child protection services, as well as the ownership and operation of institutional premises by the non-profit institutions serving households, to 40 pst. by 2025, while not reducing the public share of child protection services and facilities.»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2773	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the municipality of Bufdir and Oslo, which acquire child protection services, uses the space for action in the procurement law and engages in dialogue with the ideal providers prior to the conclusion of a contract, focusing on how they can ensure coherent and comprehensive offers to the children. The aim must be to maximise the continuity/long-termity of the offer and minimise broken relationships.’ The Labour Party and Red have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2790	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the government to ensure that child protection institutions are operated to a greater extent by non-profit actors and to present a plan for the gradual escalation of ideal ownership and the operation of child protection institutions.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2807	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size requires the government to terminate the use of competitive outsourcing and offers in the child protection sector and to ensure that private non-profit institutions serving households are guaranteed long-term contracts with the public.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2824	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking how commercial actors can be phased out by other elements of child protection, so that the entire protection of children is operated in public and non-profit-making terms.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The centre party has notified subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2844	It was a technical error. Now the system is going to work again, and it's going to do it again.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2856	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the government to ensure that child protection institutions are operated by public and non-profit actors and to present a plan for the progressive escalation of public and non-profit ownership and the operation of child protection institutions.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2873	There is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to secure long-term and ongoing contracts with non-profit institutions serving households, leading to an increase in the proportion of non-profit institutions serving households to around 40 p.m. by 2025, while not reducing the public share of institutional places.» The Group of the Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European The Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Red Party have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2892	I voted wrong. I was supposed to vote in favour, but voted against.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2897	The result is that 51 voted in favour and 46 voted against the proposal from the Labour Party – and the proposal is therefore accepted. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2913	Behind it is the right, the right, the left, and the right. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2927	Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e2935	Behind it is the right, the right, the left, and the right. The Green Party has announced its support for the vote. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e3001	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e3011	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e3020	During the debate, Freddy André Øvstegård put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with proposals for a change in the Cultural Memory Act so that the automatic protection also includes women’s cultural memories.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e3077	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e3087	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e3096	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No 1, from Kristian Torve on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Olav Urbø on behalf of the Center Party and the Christian People's Party
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e3108	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Center Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to review the coverage obligation when farmers are required to carry out surveys under the Culture Memory Act §§9 and 10 and to ensure that extensions and new buildings on common farms are subject to provisions for ‘minor private measures’. The review shall be submitted to the Storting in an appropriate manner.»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e3123	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to review the coverage obligation in the context of the Landfill Communication on the Cultural Memory when farmers are required to carry out surveys under the Culture Memory Act Sections 9 and 10 and to consider including «extensions and new constructions of agricultural buildings on common farms» in the provision for «minor, private measures».» The right, the Progress Party, the Left, the Greens and the Reds have announced their support for the proposal. The Central Party and the Christian People's Party have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e3141	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e3149	Behind it is the right, the right, the left, and the right. The Green Party has announced its support for the vote. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party, the Christian People's Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e3169	During the debate, Terje Aasland put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide a large-scale report on the Norwegian food industry dealing with both the land-based and the sea-based food industry.’ Alternatively, between the proposal and the Committee's setting up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e3178	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e3186	Behind the setting are the Right, Advance Party, Left and Christian People's Party. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e3204	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e3229	During the debate, Terje Aasland put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked not to implement an extension of the area of international ferries in the Norwegian International Ship Register until sufficient justification for such a change has been submitted to the Stortinget on its own initiative. In particular, the government is asked to consider the following: a) the factual basis, as well as the stability of those who developed parts of the basis of the Governmentally appointed Committee for the Navigation Area; b) the current framework conditions for international ferries with routes to non-Nordic ports registered in NOR; c) provide an overview and an assessment by the government of the framework conditions applicable to scheduled ships to the rest of the world with passenger cargo in NOR, NIS, DIS and other international registers, respectively, including all support schemes benefiting both indirectly and directly from the shipping companies; (d) measures which may, where appropriate, improve and ensure the basis for the competition of international ferries with routes to non-Nordic ports within the framework of NOR; and e) consequences for Nordic workers on Nordic passenger voyages where an extension of the international ferry area in the Norwegian International Ship Register is made.’;» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e3256	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e3264	Behind the setting is the Workers' Party, the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. The right, the Progress Party, the Left, the Greens and the Reds have announced support for the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e3281	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e3344	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e3355	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e3360	Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e3380	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e3405	Case No. 12–15 are the second time legal proceedings and concern legislative acts 54 to 57. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-28.ana.ud216e3455	So the things on today's map are done. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
