ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e64	There are several permissive requests: by the representatives of Solveig Sundbø Abrahamsen, Norunn Tveiten Benestad, Nils Aage Jagstad, Bente Stein Mathisen and Marianne Synnes on leave from 1 June to 7 June – all to attend the summer meeting of the Conservative Group of the Nordic Council in Canada. from representatives Jette F. Christensen, Svein Harberg and Tor André Johnsen on leave from 4 June to 15 June – all to participate in strategic crisis management courses at the Defence College. On a proposal from the President, the following agreement was reached: The applications will be dealt with immediately and be accepted. The following alternates will be convened to meet during the leave period: For East-Agder counties: Arne Thomassen For the West-Agder counties: Mathias Bernander For Akershus County: Anne Kristine Linnestad and Kjartan Berland For the state of Hedmark: Johan Aas For the province of Hordaland: Leif Audun Sande For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Anders Riise For Telemark County: Emilie Schäffer
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e133	The President will propose that a seat president be elected for the Stortinget meeting today – and see it as agreed. The President will propose Svein Harberg. – Other proposals are not in line, and Svein Harberg is elected by consensus as the seat president of the current meeting. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that today's meeting will continue beyond noon if necessary. 16 until today's map has been processed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e157	I would like to begin by saying that I am very pleased that the Minister of Justice has come to the Grand Duchy to answer questions about a very important topic, but I am disappointed that the Minister of Health is not here too. Originally, the representative Kjersti Toppe promoted a similar interpellation to Health Minister Bent Höie, while promoting the interpellation that we now have to deal with. The intention was to get a debate across health and justice on how to solve the situation of mentally ill people who are in prison and who are exposed to isolation and coercion instead of receiving health care. State Council Höie sent the interpellation from Kjersti Toppe to the Minister of Justice, and therefore the representative Toppe has chosen to draw his interpellation. Psychiatric disorders and drug problems are more common in prison than in the rest of the population. A comprehensive 2015 survey showed that as many as nine out of ten prisoners have evidence of mental or personality disorders. 42 pst. of the prisoners had symptoms of an ongoing anxiety disorder, 23 pst. had symptoms of ongoing mood disorder, and 4.1 pst. have symptoms compatible with ongoing psychosis. There seems to be no reason today to assume that this picture has changed significantly. Prison inmates have the same right to health services as the rest of the population, but access to psychiatric health care is more difficult. Health services in prisons are part of municipal health services. In some prisons, outpatient psychiatric services are provided inside prison; in other prisons, prisoners have to be manufactured for psychiatric treatment outside prison. The 2015 Safety Psychiatric Status Survey showed that treatment capacity had decreased since the previous status study, in 2008, while the number of patients had increased. Four out of ten referrals to the safety psychiatry were rejected at that time. The development of criminal services has been characterised by constant economic cutbacks over several years, including: as a result of the red tape and efficiency reform. The centre party is seriously concerned that over time financial savings have incurred significant human costs. The reality is that budget cuts have for a long time gone directly beyond the first line and staffing in prisons throughout Norway, and activity offers and programme activities have been cut. This has led to heavy pressure and demanding employment for employees, poorer rehabilitation for prisoners, an increase in violence and threats and increased use of isolation. For the group that is the topic of today’s interpellation, mentally ill prisoners, this situation is particularly critical. Instead of follow-up, rehabilitation and health care, many are met with lock-in and isolation, which worsens the state, a situation that has met with severe criticism from both prison officials themselves and bodies such as the Bar Association, the Civil Ombudsman and the UN. The use of safety cells and belts as a coercive agent to mentally ill prisoners is well documented by several teams. I'll draw out a couple of examples. Through several articles, Bergen’s Official Journal has explained very critical conditions in Bergen prison, among others. in the report ‘Desperation on cell 6143’. I quote from the ingress: ‘They cut themselves with razor blades and peel their heads in the wall until they bleed. Psychiatric prisoners are isolated on smooth cell in Bergen prison. The youngest is 15 years of age.’ Prison inmates are already deprived of their freedom in response to crime. To isolate someone on a safety cell or to use belts is the most powerful means of power that the state can use. Many of those exposed to coercive drug use are people with severe psychiatric disorders, which are exacerbated by such treatment. The Ila prison and detention centre visit report of the Civil Ombudsman of August 2017 states that over several years, there have been a number of long-term excluded prisoners with severe mental illness in Title G. At the time of the visit, two prisoners had been detained almost continuously excluded from the community since July 2013 and April 2014. There were also regular prisoners who were isolated for shorter periods of time due to suicide risk, anxiety or mental illness. The report states that: ‘Most long-term excluded persons should have been transferred to mental health protection, and some prisoners’ condition deteriorated in prison. Several had been hospitalized, but were brought back after a short time as they were not considered to have a serious mental illness, which is the law's main requirement for forced entry. The prison disagreed with this, and thought it was not used enough time for psychiatric diagnosis». It goes on to say that: ‘there are people with severe mental disorders who have been exacerbated during prison detention who have themselves questioned whether the regime that can be offered today can be classified as inhuman or degrading treatment’. [[...]] [[...]] [[...]] These conditions are not unique for Bergen prison and Ila prison. Prisons all over the country signal a precarious situation and use of isolation as a result of the manning situation and inadequate health services in prisons. Prison officials, who do not have medical or psychiatric competence, are put into practice to deal with very demanding patients. Prisoners may be at risk of aggravating their condition during detention, which is contrary to the purpose of criminal care to help prisoners to live better and crime-free lives after acquittal. I believe we can certainly assume that Norwegian prison staff have no desire to isolate serious mentally ill inmates. Nevertheless, this is happening steadily, often as a result of resource scarcity. Staff remain in situations where they do not have the capacity or other means of dealing with unsteady or unstable prisoners, while at the same time ensuring the safety and need of other prisoners. The solution will then be used by isolation or coercive agents as a safety bed, on grounds of serious self-injury, self-damage or threats of harm to themselves or others. Basic human rights impose a ban on degrading and inhumane treatment. There are now several examples of Norwegian settlements for prisoners with psychiatric disorders breaking these fundamental rights. Inhuman treatment is particularly serious against people with severe psychiatric disorders. The United Nations Committee on Human Rights has asked Norway to eliminate isolation of the mentally ill on smooth cell. Norway’s national human rights institution recommends in its 2017 Annual Report, in line with the recommendations of the Civil Ombudsman, that measures be taken to ensure that long-term isolation at the Ila prison and detention centre is given a treatment offer and that their isolation is interrupted. There is reason to stress that this must apply to all prisoners with mental disorders that are being isolated and that the issue is relevant to prisons throughout the country. I have come to the question: how will the Council of State ensure that the practice of isolation of prisoners with mental disorders ends in Norwegian prisons?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e202	Isolation may be harmful. The Jeloya platform states that the government will reduce the use of insulation. It is an important task for criminal services both to limit isolation and to counteract isolation damage in prisoners who, for various reasons, are excluded from the community for periods of time. In the event of entry into custody, the courts may lay down restrictions on the contact of the prisoner with others. Such restrictions may not be applied to criminal matters. In addition, criminal services have the right to decide on exclusion from the Community and the use of coercive measures when the conditions laid down in the law are fulfilled. The use of the safety cell and safety bed are examples of coercive agents that may be used in exceptional cases. A study carried out by the Centre for the Safety, Prison and Judicial Psychiatry of the South-East Health Region, the Cramer report, shows that the incidence of psychiatric disorders among the prison population is significantly higher than in the general population. 92 pst. had signs of personality disorder or mental illness. The study also suggests that a much higher proportion of prisoners than among the general population have mental disorders that last a lifetime. Prisoners in Norwegian prisons have the same entitlement to health care as the rest of the population. This also applies to specialist health services. The prison health service is a central link between the prison, specialist health service and the home municipality of the individual prisoner. The host municipality and the health region where the prison is geographically located provide health services to prisoners. The host municipality of the prisons receives earmarked grants from the State. In 2018, Stortinget granted 167.4 million. DKK in grants to host municipalities and host counties for health care in prisons. The government has increased the contribution to the prison health service by 10 million. SEK in 2017 and 5 million. kr in year. In addition, in 17 Norwegian prisons, drug retention units are established. These are units arranged for prisoners with drug problems. There is often a link between drug use and mental disorders. At each of these drug treatment units, health professionals from specialist health services are in place who can contribute to the provision of health care to prisoners with drug problems. As part of the government’s escalating plan for the drug field, three new such units were established in 2017 according to the Stifender model. Furthermore, the aim of the year’s mission document to regional health businesses is to implement measures to increase the availability of mental health protection for prisoners in prisons. With regard to regional safety services in the field of mental health protection, Health South-East has started the design of a new regional safety department at Oslo University Hospital. It is foreseen that the construction of this new department will take place at Ila prison. It's set at 33 million. kr for the preliminary design of the new safety department. Such a department could provide better health services and help to strengthen cooperation between the criminal and specialist health services for the very sickest of inmates. A few prisoners in Norwegian prisons are in a very special situation. These are people with extensive mental disorders. They have committed serious criminal acts and often have a difficult background and violent behaviour. For them, imprisonment may involve isolation. These include: a statement of the need to protect other prisoners and employees. This is a demanding group, but although it is difficult, we have to work to find good solutions. In 2014, this government provided for the creation of a resource team for the very sickest in Ila prison. The Resource Team has assigned prisoners who are unable to adapt to an ordinary Community department, activation in the form of aeration, training, conversations, cooking and action. This was an important measure, which has had a positive impact on the group of prisoners in question. As the resource team has now existed for almost four years, it is natural to summarise the experience with the team before we launch new actions. From what I've heard, the resource team has been useful. The issue of mental illness in prison is one that will have to be on the agenda for the future. The government will continue to work to improve the conditions for mentally ill prisoners. This will be followed up in a cooperation between me and the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e221	I would like to thank the Council of State for its response. I think it is good that the government has started some projects, including: building several safety departments, which will improve the situation of access to mental health protection. But I think the Council of State was little in line with one of the fundamental challenges to the situation of mental illness in prison, namely that the manning situation in Norwegian prisons is so critical that it is very difficult to follow up prisoners who have mental disorders, which are exaggerating, without isolating them or, in the worst cases, using belt beds. The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights had some time ago, among others. a committee mission to Bodø. In Bodø prison they could tell that some inmates were so unbeatable that you had to have three to four employees just to be able to open the door and go in to him. A whole high-security department had three employees at work. When the three employees who are at work, all of them have to be used only to take care of one employee, it goes without saying that the calculation does not go up. Then you either have to choose to isolate one prisoner, so that you can handle the other prisoners in the department, or simply stand in a very unmanageable situation. Of course, this situation goes beyond the prisoners, who get a worse condition, but it also affects the employees, who have a very demanding working day. They have to face the situations that prison officers shouldn't have been in. When prisoners suffer from mental ill health, mental illness, they are entitled to health care to the same extent as the rest of the population. That healthcare is the healthcare professional who has to provide, not prison officers, who do not have that competence. I would like to encourage the Council of State to respond more specifically to how he wants to improve the situation in prisons. In addition, I wonder what the level of ambition of the government is, because some important individual measures have come about, but the fact is that there are currently situations in which questions can be asked about whether a violation of fundamental human rights is a violation of the prohibition of torture and inhuman and degrading treatment. Is there a situation that the Council of State can live with that he is responsible for?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e230	Let me start by saying that this is a very difficult group, and there is no doubt that in recent years the government has increased their resources, among other things. through resource teams. So it's also quite correct, as the representative says, that there is often a very large crew required around these. I think it's important to remember that there are some important things that must be at stake, centrally, and that's that you can protect your employees, and that you can protect other prisoners. But it's also important that this group is protected from itself. It's resource-intensive, and it's hard. It is in the health system, but it is also in the prison system. After all, isolation itself is not an objective or an instrument; exclusion from the community is sometimes essential to protect it from itself and from the others in prison. So it's the health service that's responsible for mental health protection, and they've got their budgets strengthened for this. Priority has also been given to this in the letter of award to the health region. It is important to say that there has not been a general cut in the health sector – the operating budgets have increased by hundreds of millions of dollars, from 3.4 billion. DKK to SEK 4,3 billion. kr from 2013 to 2018, so it is a strengthening. As we have now succeeded in removing prison queues – it is important to say that we have done more or less completely too high security, and we are now going into a situation where we have too many on low security – it is very important that we are allowed to put down prisons that we do not need, so that these resources can be used to strengthen the content of the compensation for those who are left. Dismantling prison queues becomes the number one job in many ways, and now, hopefully, we can have resources to strengthen the content of the settlement, while it is perfectly obvious that the same rights to access healthcare apply to prisoners as to the rest of the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e243	One of the best objectives of quality in a society is how to treat the most vulnerable. Serious mentally ill people who are in prison and who have a combination of debilitating behavior, psychiatric problems, intoxication and crime must be seen as some of the weakest in our society. That's why you have to look there to see how things stand in the Kingdom. These are people who need the necessary health care. There are people where the goal is rehabilitation and help to return to society, and isolation in prison is probably about the least appropriate way to prepare people for such a return. It's also, which has been clearly documented both here in the hall and in several headlines in the media about this, so that we now expose the staff in prison to an almost inhuman expectation that they will go into treatment, which they do not have training for, and because of resource scarcity, which is again a product of many years of starvation of prisons. Employees are forced to choose measures as isolation, which they – as was mentioned by the representative Enger Mehl – do not really want. So this is a consequence of how you have treated prisons, including prisons. through so-called red tape and efficiency measures. It is worrying that we are manifestly acting in violation of fundamental human rights principles. It has been very clear to the UN Commission on Human Rights, and it has also pointed out domestic institutions, as the Norwegian National Institute for Human Rights and the Civil Ombudsman. Then I want to say that human rights are serious. They're meant to be followed. And a country like ours, which has obligations towards its own citizens, must take them seriously – also in order to substantiate the arguments we use in the world. Because when we want to have a clear and clear tone in the international human rights work – as we have, and as we need – we always have to remember that our own work to maintain human rights at home is also an important start to it. The work of human rights begins at home. I would also like to say that I am pleased that the Council of State expresses its recognition of the challenge, acknowledges the problem, and says that the government will address it. But here, on the part of the Labour Party, we expect clear action, both by the Minister of Justice and by the Minister of Health and Care, to address these challenges, so that we in Norway can align ourselves with the commitments we have made in international cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e254	Thank you so much for giving us this very important debate, and thank you to the interpellant, Emilie Enger Mehl, for taking up an important matter. I would first of all like to say that although we are now placing the Minister of Justice responsible for this, it is not his fault. This is a situation that has remained for many years, and it was definitely such a situation even when the red-green ones crashed. Although I have great respect for my name brother Espen Barth Eide, who also referred to the international dimension here, it was not that this was cleaned up when the Workers' Party had the Minister of Justice. I believe, in the name of honesty, that this has been an omission for many, many years – through several changing governments – and now we are taking it up on this Minister of Justice's watch. But it's not like he's wrong. I just want to emphasize that. We're talking about a very small group, there's probably 15 to 20 people on a national basis. They have all committed serious crimes and are sentenced to longer sentences. They have also been sentenced to criminal prosecution, so they are to be in prison. As far as I understand, these people are victims themselves, these are people who have failed in their own childhood, in child protection, in school. These are people who have failed throughout their life’s career, and they will eventually also fail when they go to prison — both as prisoners and as patients. SV and the undersigned have been very involved in this matter, so in addition to the interpellation debate we have here, I have recently presented to the Stortinget a proposal for a representative that is quite specific in order to clean up this situation. I will refer to the main points of the proposal that Stortinget is being dealt with right over the summer. One concrete proposal is that we specifically ask the government to avoid decisions on the isolation of mentally ill people — as simple as that. Psychiatric diseases shall not be isolated. This should be dealt with by Stortinget. Then we ask that criminal convictions taken out of the community because of serious mental illness be immediately sought in the field of mental health protection – a very concrete proposal that we want the Stortinge to adopt. I'm not going to frame all the proposals, but I'm going to take a third that's important: to ask the government to make a stepping-up plan to strengthen the capacity to handle these mentally ill in a proper way. When I want this matter to be dealt with in concrete terms in the Stortinget, it is because we want the solution to the situation of these prisoners and patients to be given a formal clarification in the Stortinget, both who is responsible for them, and that the situation for them should be very clearly fixed in the future state budget. I've been concerned about the dimension of human rights. It has been suspected that fundamental human rights have been violated, that the torture ban has in fact been broken in this context. I asked the Minister of Justice a written question about this a few weeks ago, asking for a guarantee that the ban on torture or cruel, inhumane treatment will not be broken, i.e. that the Minister of Justice would guarantee that this ban will not be broken. Unfortunately, I did not get any guarantee – there was no guarantee in any way. In the answer from the Minister of Justice, there were a number of naturalities, the answer did not even touch in what was my question. The answer was about completely different things. When I register that the Minister of Justice cannot give the Storting a guarantee that the human rights are not broken, I have to interpret that answer. Then I interpret that answer so that the Ministry of Justice cannot guarantee that human rights are not violated, in other words, that professionals in the Ministry of Justice themselves suspect that human rights have been violated. It's a very serious situation, which is really very alarming, that in fact even in the Ministry of Justice there is a suspicion that the human rights here are being violated, and that the state in its handling of this group is actually breaking Norwegian law. So there is a basis for making the State criminally responsible for that situation. Of course, we don't want to do that, we want to deal with this through concrete proposals in Stortinget. But it is clear that we do not need to solve the situation in the long term, we also need to test the situation in the legal system.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e275	First, I would like to thank the representative, Mr. Enger Mehl, for bringing up a very important theme, a theme that you'll never really get to talk about for a long time. I'm glad to hear that we're really quite united in this challenge you have, because this is a complex. There are many prisoners who have a complex challenge with mental disorders. A few prisoners have very special needs because of their mental health. These are people who have committed criminal acts and who often have a difficult background. It's a demanding group, but they deserve a decent treatment, even though it's challenging to find good solutions. We know that isolation can be harmful to prisoners, and we have to work to reduce the use of isolation. The government itself mentioned Ila and this resource team that was established there a few years ago. This was an important measure to activate prisoners under Title G. We've seen in recent years that this resource work has had a positive effect on the prisoners, so this is very important. There's no doubt about it. It is then natural that we now assess the need for new measures. One of the measures being assessed is nationally strengthened Community departments, which we hope we will see if not too long. The representative, Enger Mehl, mentioned the young people in prison. In Norway, we have seven pieces, and I myself have visited the juvenile prison at Eidsvoll, where four of them sit. There I was told how good the results of these four have from coming in with strong complicated disorders in the field of drugs and psychiatry, and how they manage to treat them there. There they could tell that no insulation has been used, nor has any coercion been used in them. That's at least a very positive thing. I am very happy that I see that the government's goal is to strengthen the offer to the prisoners with mental disorders. Therefore, close cooperation between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Health and Welfare is very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e288	I would like to thank you for a debate with good points, and I am pleased that several parties engaged today. I want to start with something that the representative Petter Eide said. He said it's not the Minister of Justice's fault that the situation is the way it is today. I agree with that premise. It is not his fault, but it is his responsibility to do something about it. We must not forget that, because the situation is precarious. It's precarious for the prisoners, for the employees and for society, and we can't go on dealing much longer with the mentally ill in prison this way and at the same time claiming to be a good legal state with good justice. It's a very demanding group we're talking about. The Minister of Justice himself said that there is a group that requires a large crew. The representative Petter Eide referred to the SV's proposal that mental illness should not be isolated. I really think everyone agrees with that. Today, I think one would say that mental illness should not be isolated. No one is saying that mental illness should be isolated. But in the practical reality, that's what happens over and over again. It's not because you have an intention to do it, but the actual conditions force you to do it. The prison staff have no other choice, as I was in my previous posts. When you have as low a crew as you have now, when it's been cut off in activity offers, in rehabilitation and programme activities, it's clear that we don't achieve what I think must be the basics of criminal care, namely that the prisoners are going to get out of prison better equipped to meet society and stick to a life without crime than they were when they came in. In practice, we are now at risk that prisoners who have been in prison with mental disorders will get sicker when they come out again, become more dangerous to society, and the risk of recurrence is increasing. I can never imagine that is what the Progress Party wants, but that is what the policy in practice leads to. The words in the Jeløya platform that the government will improve rehabilitation in prison and its members are good, but now it's completely unsubstantiated. Finally, I would like to remind you that the Director of the Directorate of Criminal Welfare commented on the budgetary situation for 2018 as almost unmanageable. That is the reality of the Progress Party's policy right now. There won't be any better rehabilitation of that. I hope that the Minister of Justice will also take responsibility for the situation in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e301	Let me stress that I think this is an important debate, and I think the interpellant should have praise for engaging in it. It's important, and this is a group that we very easily forget to focus on. I have some comments on the posts. First of all, what the representative Petter Eide says about an interpretation of the opinion of the Ministry of Justice, of course, we cannot do well. It's not an interpretation that we have, but it's an attempt from Eide to substantiate opinions we don't have. I also think it is useful to have a small comment on this term “torture” that is used. In this case, it's not as precise as it sounds, because we're talking here about exclusion from the community of an institution because you're a danger to yourself or other inmates or employees. Then there is an assessment which label to put on it. It's not a desirable situation to exclude them. But some, most people, might associate the word "torture" with something else. It is also useful to remember that initially this is a person who has committed serious criminal acts, and the division of labour in this society is such that it is the courts that decide where they should be. These are not sentenced to mental health protection; they are sentenced to a prison sentence. It's a premise that we can't do anything about, and we're not going to do anything about, because that's the division of labour in it. When they arrive at the prison, they are entitled to the same healthcare as all other citizens. But it is obvious that it is important for us to focus on them in particular, and that is why prison health services have also been strengthened by 10 million. kr last year and 5 mill. kr in year. That is why it is also a priority in the letter of assignment to regional health companies, and that is why we are planning a new regional safety department in Ila. But, of course, that's not enough. This is one thing that we have to follow all the time. Of course, it's my responsibility, and it's the Minister of Health's responsibility, because we each have our share of this. I can assure you that this is something that I and the Minister of Health have discussed many times, and will also discuss again – also next week. Finally, I would like to say once again that this is an important debate. It's useful to focus on this group. I think the debate has actually been good, it has been useful, so I would like to say thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e316	The debate on substance is closed. So 1 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e332	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five series of replies be given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e341	Let me start by thanking the Committee for a good and effective cooperation. The Government has proposed additions and amendments to the Foreign Affairs Act and the background to that proposal is to ensure that the provisions of the Foreign Affairs Act are consistent with the EU Data Protection Regulation. The processing of personal data is very relevant in foreign matters. Those who are going to have access to our country must also provide information about themselves. If we are to seek asylum in Norway, it is quite obvious that if we are to be able to process that application at all, we need to give up personal data. It may include identity information, contact information and information on economic conditions, but also information on criminal offences, ethnic origin, political or religious beliefs or sexual orientation may be relevant to the processing of an application in foreign matters. In addition, it may also be relevant to collect and store information about a wider range of persons than the stranger himself. This could be done, for example, by: be relevant to the processing and keeping of equivalent information on the family or circle of the stranger. Although it is absolutely necessary to collect and process personal data in foreign affairs, it is also a fundamental human right that we all have a right to good privacy. There shall be a good balance between the protection of individual data protection interests on the one hand and the social needs justifying the need to collect personal data, inter alia. Foreign affairs, on the other hand. The new data protection regulation requires clearer provision for the processing of such personal data, and it is positive that stricter and clearer data protection rules are introduced, inter alia. by increasing the transparency of the collection, use and processing of personal data that we provide. This proposal, which has been promoted by the government, gives the authorities a clear authority to process personal data in foreign affairs and also meets the requirements of the EU Data Protection Regulation. It is clear from the proposal that the information is collected only when necessary and that it is also possible to draw up rules on the processing of this type of personal data. With that, I recommend the unanimous vote of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e354	The Ministry says that the reason for the proposed law that has been promoted is to provide the authorities with a clear basis for the processing of personal data in foreign matters. The aim of the legislative proposal is therefore positive in the view of the Centre Party and also strengthens the legal certainty of those affected. As a result of the implementation of the EU Data Protection Regulation in Norway, this bill comes into force by means of new data protection laws. In this context, we have a note from the Centre Party asking questions about whether Norwegian data protection legislation should have been designed more according to national needs, rather than as a mere copy of the new EU legislation. The central party therefore believes that Norwegian legal work should be based on greater national efforts to balance different aspects of the protection of society’s and Norwegian interests on the one hand, and not least individual privacy interests on the other. However, we fully agree with the need for clarification of data protection provisions both in general and not least in foreign matters. I see that some of the hearing bodies also ask about the same thing as us when they think that the ministry should be more clear on a number of points based on what the law is to protect. For example, the Data Protection Authority says: they are disappointed that the department does not take advantage of the opportunity to set up a more precise basis, and not least a comprehensive regulation. The Data Protection Authority therefore considers that the proposed legal provisions on the processing of personal data are so transparent and discretionary that one does not really say anything more than what is covered by the Regulation. In general terms, therefore, the hearing bodies agree to the legislative work being done, with more input to the degree of concreteisation. The centre party is going to follow closely what the department is putting on in practice, and we might have to get back to the case when we see the results of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e365	I just need to give some brief clarifications. SV has agreed that we need a new personal information law, and it has a maritime impact on foreign legislation as well. It is important to stress that there may be very sensitive information that refugees have and that can actually be life-threatening if they stray. Here it is important that privacy is really well maintained. The second is the point now raised by the representative of the Central Party, namely the clear observation by the Data Protection Authority that they believe that the bill is too transparent and discretionary, and that it is uncertain how this will work in practice. SV will follow this closely, because it is important that we have a law that is strict and that allows personal data to be handled correctly and safely. It shall be manageable for those who are to use it, but it shall not be liable to the detriment of safety and no more than strictly necessary information shall be provided for them. Finally, the SV would stress that we agree on the need for a new data protection law, but we have disagreed on the implementation of the regulation in Norwegian law, in particular because the negotiated outcome of the EEA Committee is somewhat different from that provided for in this case, when the case was dealt with in the Justice Committee as a whole. There is therefore some uncertainty about the future of this legislation. We believe this shows that this may happen a little too quickly, that the Norwegian authorities have wanted to be quick. It may have its reasons, but sometimes it's smarter to wait until a clear result is on the table when it comes to implementing a regulation. It does not prevent Norway from adopting new and better data protection laws.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e376	I am pleased that the Committee, acting unanimously, seems to support the proposal to introduce a general basis for processing personal data into the Foreign Affairs Act. The Foreign Affairs Act has not yet had a general basis for the processing of personal data. The current legal basis is based on the general rules of the Data Protection Act, the consent of the data subject and the consent of the Data Protection Authority. By providing a separate provision in the Foreign Affairs Act, the conditions for the use of personal data become clearer both for the person obtaining the information and for the information from which it is obtained. It also strengthens the basis of law. In order to deal with foreign affairs, authorities need to collect, retain and process personal data on a large number of Norwegian and foreign citizens. Many of the data processed are so-called specific categories of personal data, such as ethnicity, sexual orientation and health. Such information requires special protection. In addition, data must be stored over a long period of time. The scope and duration of the treatment and the nature of the information indicate that the use should be authorised by law. There can be no doubt that, through its proceedings, the non-resident authorities take care of important societal interests and carry out tasks which are in the public interest. It is in the interests of society to know the identity of non-residents coming to Norway and to control immigration under the conditions imposed by the legislation, a law which also ensures the legal certainty of foreigners. It is therefore important to facilitate the access of the authorities to the information they need in their proceedings. The proposal only authorises the processing of personal data necessary in the specific cases. Arbitrary proceedings not relevant to the case are dismissed. The processing of personal data must also be linked to the tasks entrusted to the authorities by law, with some specified exceptions. These restrictions are necessary in order to comply with the requirements of the law in order to intervene in private life. At the same time, the limitations contribute to raising the awareness of those who obtain the information. The treatment of foreign affairs offers comprehensive and demanding assessments, and it is important to ensure as broad and sound a basis as possible within the framework of the data protection requirement. I believe that this proposal serves both ends.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e393	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e409	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e418	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Good Cooperation. Now I have not been the case rapporteur on this matter, but I am taking this post for Kari Kjenaas Kjos, who has been the case rapporteur. Never before have so many people been settled as quickly as you do today. This government has managed to settle more refugees in one year – in 2016 – than the previous government managed in four years in its first period. It's very positive. It's very good that that development is much faster. It is important for integration. When we manage to settle refugees much faster, it is also extremely important that we follow it up with early efforts to start good integration. A very important measure in this way is to start early with Norwegian education and training in Norwegian cultural understanding and Norwegian values. It's very important because we see that time and again there are challenges with poor understanding of Norwegian values and Norwegian culture. It's a very good proposition from the government, but it's not like this is all the government wants to do with the law of introduction. The government has announced that there will be a new, major review of the entire law of introduction that will take care of very many of the inputs the opposition has made in this matter. One important thing this proposition points to is more labour and education correction in the training of introduction centres. It is important at an early stage to identify what the wishes, abilities and qualifications of the individual are already, and then to adapt the training further to reach work. It has probably been the case that, in the past, there has been a little too much training that has led many people to get through the Norwegian system, how to find out, for example, how to do this. Navel and elsewhere. That's not the right way to go about it. The right way to move forward is to start from day one with a plan for how to get into work. If we do not succeed in getting new immigrants into work, neither will we succeed in integrating them. It's very good that there's actually an overall committee that's behind the vote. There are some additional suggestions from others that we take with us as input further.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e431	Finally, we get a little hint about Sanner's pagan integration virtue, which was launched by both the representative Abid Q. Raja and the state council Sanner when the government statement was ready this winter. This effort has been discussed for half a year without any policy being launched. Finally, we have now received a little signal about a change that could mean something to those who want to be qualified for work through the introduction system. This is far from good enough, but a little step on the way. We're facing a new freedom fight. The path to self-sufficiency and the ability to stand on one's own legs is far too many. We must create freedom for the individual, molded by and in a community. If we are to get more people to work, we must make demands on the training and the qualification offered. If we are to cope with this, we need to focus on language training and working practices for those who are being trained in the introduction programme, qualification programme and adult training. Too few of those participating in these programmes become self-sufficient. As it is now, we can't give good enough skills to those we want to qualify for work. We must dare to ask the fundamental question whether the arrangements work as intended. This is why we support the proposal that the government should go back and find out how the various training courses in the introduction programme, Norwegian training and adult training can be coordinated and streamlined, so that participation in these programmes more facilitates professional participation. Why don't Immigrants get jobs after the program is finished, like the introduction system? What does it take to actually get the relevant skills to get them a job? We say in our remarks that we need to invest massively in language training and working practices in the future. Therefore, the majority of the Committee proposes that the government should return to Stortinget with a plan for how Nav, IMDi and the municipalities can work together through the introduction programme and provide more relevant practical places for the participants in the introduction programme. Furthermore, the government is asked to consider introducing training courses for some letters in the introduction scheme. So these are the government parties against it. How are we going to integrate our new neighbours better and faster? The government will have to answer that soon. Too few of those who participate in today's qualification course come to work or education, so that they can be good role models for their children. We cannot accept the developments we see in the rest of the world in some areas of Oslo. Action must be taken to prevent re-formulation and alienation. The parent’s presence in children’s lives is essential for children’s growth. We must therefore demand that parents present themselves in children's lives and are good role models. Getting to work is the first step towards active participation in the lives of children.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e442	With the proposed amendments to the Introduction Act, the government invites the Stortinget to take targeted and important steps to strengthen the integration work in our country. The whole of the proposals presented makes clear the course of government, namely participation in working life as the main policy objective, and that the way to doing so is through individual human resources and opportunities. It is good to note that all parties in the Grand Duchy agree on this approach and that there is broad support for the proposals presented. We also note the impatience of the opposition in this area. That's good, not just for the individual immigrant, who is of course the central one in this, but also for Norway as a nation, if we see it in a slightly longer time perspective. In the age of globalisation, integration work and our basic attitudes to what is new and different are more important than ever. I am absolutely sure that tomorrow's winners are the societies that grow on new impulses, and that use human resources, regardless of background – societies that are based on tolerance, and that provide all secure frameworks for different lives. The losers become those societies that, through protection mechanisms, marginalise the new, and which refer those who fall outside, to social security offices and crime statistics. No one protects himself for progress. The signals coming from the government on new measures are promising. I'm sure the State Council of Sanner on his tour is experiencing a great enthusiasm, expectation and inauguration against very many of those he meets. At least it's been my experience meeting new countrymen. I think it is important that the work we are going to do, which will deal with new issues and new initiatives, is based on a positive approach – an approach that is about the expectation of our new countrymen – and not on the description of misery, although of course there are many who have a demanding life situation and strong life stories in this. The introduction programme with training in Norwegian and social skills is the main instrument we have to contribute to the integration of new countrymen. Norwegian integration policy is very good, but unfortunately statistics tell us that there is still a lot to be done. For the right, integration policy is an area of activity in the future, and we are looking forward to the initiatives announced by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e455	The central party believes that it is of great importance for the integration of asylum seekers to receive training in Norwegian and social knowledge. This makes time in reception more meaningful, it prepares the basis for the implementation of the introduction programme when living in the municipalities, and not least helps refugees to get to work more quickly or further education – a goal that this room shares. We have therefore supported the proposal that asylum seekers be given an obligation to participate in training in Norwegian and community knowledge, and that municipalities are required to carry out this training. The Ministry’s legislative proposals are justified by the fact that training in Norwegian and Norwegian culture is one of the most important means of helping new immigrants to get out and remain in the labour market. I think that's probably the right thing to say. Thus, the Centre supports the proposals that make the introduction period more flexible by making work and education more coherent. This is how one seeks to achieve the goal better and not least faster. All participants in the introduction programme and Norwegian training shall have an individual plan. The plan shall set out the objectives of the participants’ programmes and training and the activities and actions necessary to achieve those objectives. The municipality shall review the plans through it. So the centre party supports the proposals that are being promoted, but we still believe that there is reason to note some of the counter-representations that have been raised by the hearing bodies that have given their opinion on the matter. Other, including: IMDI and KS, are sceptical about using lawmaking as a tool. IMDi has shown that 90 pst. of the host municipalities provide Norwegian training to asylum seekers, and the KS believes that many municipalities will have problems in obtaining teachers and interpreting assistance – a challenge we know from other areas of training as well. So something that can make it possible for municipalities to comply with that legal requirement is going to be difficult, with access to teachers. The Hearing Officers are also divided in the view of the proposal which clarifies that individual levels should be based on measures that they have implemented before the settlement in a municipality. Both the municipality of KS and the municipality of Oslo say that the municipalities have the best overview of the opportunities for work and education locally. It's quite obvious to the Center Party. Individual levels must not become a measure that imposes legal obligations on municipalities to follow up actions that are not appropriate for those to be assisted into places in society and in the labour market. It is important that we bear in mind the contradictions with the proposed legislative proposals. While supporting the legislative proposals, as the Centre Party does, we must be open to the opinion that a legislative decision should not prevent an adaptation to benefit both asylum seekers and municipalities. So the practice out there is important. We also need to be willing to see that new requirements for municipalities give rise to new costs. The legislative nature of tasks must be monitored by means of funding. I see with excitement whether there will be a reality under this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e474	I'm glad that there's finally a little proposal to improve integration. But first I want to thank the representative Thommess for his contributions, for what he does, is to tell you that integration is best done in a climate where you talk respectfully about each other, and it's a correct one by the line that the government parties have had so far, and perhaps especially the Progress Party. Because it's not easy to integrate when you're told that you're unwanted and useless, and it's always spreading scary stories. I have brought a book with me today – I know it’s not so popular, but I’ve brought one with me – and it’s Fafo’s research on the introduction program and Norwegian education. I have a pile in my office, so if anyone's interested in seeing all the research done in this area in the last few years, it's with me. It's clear what we have to do, and we have that for a long time. We have to qualify people for the work life we have. We have to close the gap between what people can do and what work life needs. Then we have to individualize the schemes, and we have to let people complete the qualification. SV proposes it today, because we believe it is far overtime. Today, there is too much of putting people into the same situations, and that is not true, and you are not allowed to complete the necessary skills. That's what you have to do. It's going to cost a little bit more in a transitional period, but we're going to earn on it in the long term, because then people get a job. SV is not afraid to make demands on people. We believe that they will be offered to complete this, and you should be required to stand. There is also the experience of a permanent capacity that employers appreciate when they look at the CV of people, that they have been able to complete training, and that they are able to complete qualification. Therefore, SV proposes major changes today, which is necessary, because now a lot of money is being wasted on courses that do not lead to work, both in the introduction system and in Nav, because you are so living afraid that it will take a little longer, and that people should not take the first and best small job that may give little income, so that you get family reunification, for example. It is devastating for integration, and it is also devastating for integration to continue for years to look for some very small error in the application that was made 20 years ago, so that people can’t rot – because they have to. So we're going to make strict demands, we're going to make arrangements that make employers see that this is qualified, good education, that the working life needs, and that the jam Norway also needs. I would like to address the suggestions in the vote, which the Socialist Left Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e485	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. The president will repeat that it was good that at least not the whole book pile was in the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e492	Today I think it's in place to say dear President! If we are to succeed in our immigration policy, we are totally dependent on a good integration policy. So I want to start by thanking the government for presenting this proposition. It contributes to important steps in the right direction. If we are to ensure that those who come to us because of war and persecution become well integrated, we are completely dependent on starting language training as early as possible. It is therefore very good that it is now included in the law that those who live on asylum reception receive the right and obligation to participate in training in Norwegian culture and in Norwegian values, and that the municipalities are obliged to offer this. Knowledge and competence are crucial for understanding the society to be a part of. In addition, it is very good that we today decide that the time you can be part of the introduction programme can be extended to three years when it will strengthen the individual’s ability to get into work or education. It is positive for the individual, but also for society as a whole. People are different and have different challenges. We must then ensure flexibility in the introduction programme, so that the scheme does not impede integration but actually promotes it. Language is the key to so much. Not only does it increase the possibility of getting jobs and education, but it also contributes to a more active participation in society. Self-sufficiency is important to ensure a sustainable society, but it is so important for the individual. We all want to contribute to society, but then, as politicians, we need to make better efforts to succeed. We must absolutely dry down demands – there is a lot of human dignity in making demands, but we must also take responsibility for their success. Together, we can create a warmer society for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e503	One of the main government projects in this period is to implement an integration promise. Immigrants, like everyone else, should have the opportunity to create a good life for themselves and their own and to become part of large and small communities in Norwegian society. The most important thing is that more people come to work. High levels of professional participation are essential in order to ensure a sustainable welfare society. It is also important that we succeed in everyday integration, so that we ensure the trust and cohesion of the Norwegian society. The changes we are now proposing in the introduction law are a first step in the process of the integration promise. The path to work, self-sufficiency and participation in Norwegian society goes through knowledge and competence. Norwegian knowledge and understanding of Norwegian society are essential for success. Today it is up to host municipalities to decide whether to provide training in Norwegian and Norwegian culture and training. I have even met some of the people who are eager to start learning Norwegian, but who did not receive an offer. We believe it is important that all municipalities start training quickly. We therefore propose that an obligation be imposed on municipalities to provide an offer of reception training and an obligation to participate for all in the target group. The government has already launched several other measures for the reception of residents. These include competence monitoring and career guidance. The legislative proposal specifies that the actions undertaken in the introduction programme should be based on the monitoring carried out. We know that labour-oriented measures and education work. We also know that there are too few who have such measures per day. Therefore, we propose to legislate that everyone should have work or education-oriented measures as part of their introduction programme. Such measures may, for example: include work practices, professional tests, primary and secondary education. For example: to complete primary or secondary education, you may need a little more time than two years. About half of the municipalities do not use the option under the Introduction Act to extend the introduction programme beyond two years. We therefore state that the programme can be extended to three years if this strengthens the individual’s ability to move to work or to regular education. I am pleased that the Stortinge joins the legislative changes proposed by the government, which will provide faster and better integration for many. However, this is only the first step in the process of the integration strategy. The next steps will include: is about how we can obtain formal qualification as part of the introduction programme, clearer language training requirements, and stronger work guidance. It's a pleasure that multiple batches are expressing their support for this line.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e520	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e526	Yes, it was just to be lacking that we did not support this. It's too small and too late. The sustainability of the welfare society depends on as many of us as possible working. Therefore, it is also essential that the level of self-sufficiency among those who come as refugees increases considerably. At that time, we need to have several relevant practical places for the participants in the introduction programme, and then the introduction of training courses for some professionals in the introduction scheme is something that needs to be considered. We also suggest that Nav and its municipalities should work together and provide more relevant practical places. The municipality of Oslo is doing something great in adult education at Helsfyr and has now launched a model where participants can receive a letter after four years. Why does the Council of State not support the proposal to allow any participant to take the letter of formal notice during this scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e535	Let me first say that ‘too little, too late’ is not a particularly reliable rhetoric in this matter. I have been a Minister of Knowledge and Integration for four months, and we have been paving the way for future integration policy. I travel around the country and the beach to raise the good examples – for example. at Lillehammer, where immigrants have the opportunity to take vocational training. We will present an integration promise for the autumn and a reform of the introduction programme next spring. We're doing great. Then I'm glad of the impatience, I'm glad of the input into this process, I'm glad that there's a total accumulation pointing in the same direction. It is not true that the government or government parties are opposed to these proposals, but when a government is to make proposals, it must be knowledge-based and it must be taken into account in the context. We have announced that this will come to the autumn and next spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e542	The working party believes that if a participant is absent from primary school and this is not considered to be a current training offer, justification should be provided at individual level. If you're going to be self-sufficient over time, most people will need primary school. Provision of primary schools for adults is not available in all municipalities; therefore, such a need for justification is important in monitoring the provision of services by municipalities. Getting qualified for Norwegian work can be a long canvas to bleach for some of our new neighbours. Why is it so hard for the government to see just this, that someone needs a longer race and closer follow-up than others? The question is: why does the Council of State not give priority to qualifying those who lack primary school for Norwegian working life? Does the Council of State think many of the refugees will be able to be sustainable self-sustaining without primary education?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e549	The answer to that question is no. Governments don't think so. That is why we are now implementing a reform of the introduction programme. That is why we need to implement an integration promise. That's why we're betting on real qualification. However, a government may not adopt such proposals on the table. We're investigating them. We're collecting knowledge. We see what works, and we implement measures that make us succeed. We have to succeed in ensuring a society that remains to be influenced by trust, transparency and small differences, and then there is formal qualification that is the way to go, in a labour market that just requires it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e554	There was a lot of work to be done in the posts of the Council of State, among others. that the investigation had now suddenly become so important. You know what some other issues, which have not been sufficiently investigated, have done. The entrance of the Council of State was that he had been Minister of Knowledge and Integration for four months. The representative of Engen-Helgheim from the Party of Advancement, one of the government parties, showed that it was done too little under the previous government. This government has now been sitting for five years, and I noted with interest that after four months the Council of State took hold of the introduction program and got it revised. I can hardly see it as anything but criticism of the previous Council of State. Then the question is, is it that the Council of State shares the description of Engen-Helgheim, that the previous government had an introduction program in which many people would be ‘good at troubling through the Norwegian system’? That's what Engen-Helgheim used.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e561	I have not brought any criticism against anyone, either my former or current government colleagues or against Stortinget. I'm glad we're now looking in the same direction. Then we also have to bear in mind that in 2015 we experienced a refugee crisis that I don't think any other government has been in. That means that what was the main task in the last period was to deal with the refugee crisis. It was to make sure that we got control at the borders. It was to make sure to cooperate with the municipalities in order to get good housing. And we did that. Now we are in the situation that there are many who are on the introduction scheme, and it's my task number one to make sure that they get the best possible starting point for success in work, becoming part of small and large communities. I look forward to working with all the parties in Stortinget to succeed in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e570	We are also looking forward to new proposals, because it is time. I know that the Council of State has been short on time, but we have the knowledge and competence we need to do this. We don't need new research reports. There are NOUs and research reports here. Like I said, I've got the stack down in my office. Then the question is, why can't you be more clear on this in decision-making now, when even the Council of State answers the representative Gassemyr Staalesen's questions about the Council of State think that someone gets a job if they don't have this competence. Governments say no, he doesn't think so. Why can we not then state that that competence must be completed within the introduction system, when everyone agrees that it is necessary in order to get a job in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e577	I understand very well that both the SV and other opposition parties would like the government parties to vote for their proposal, but when we are in government and are about to implement this and prepare matters for the Storting, it is not necessary to vote in favour of the opposition's proposal. But as I say in my post: I record that we are now pointing in the same direction. I am pleased with the proposals that are coming, and I think that more people will recognize their proposals when the government gradually comes up with both a strategy and a reform of the introduction programme. I agree that we have a lot of research on this. It's not like we need a lot of new research. But when I travel around, I also see that you do the problems a little bit differently. That's a little bit of the point of spending little time now learning from the best, the ones that actually succeed, whether it's with everyday integration, like at Furuset with Alna School, whether it's with work correction, that you succeed with many other places, or whether it's with competence enhancement.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e584	That experience has also been found there for a long time, and it has been announced for a very long time. It is on the basis of the practical experience and research we have promoted these proposals. It's overdue, and then it's very stupid that the government has chosen to shut down the receptions in some of the municipalities that have been the best at integration. It's kind of not so well connected. I have one final question. We're not discussing it that much right now, but it's a problem for some of our immigrants who are going to work, that in Norway there is actually also racism – applications from people who have a foreign name are being put quite far down in the pile, despite being qualified. That's part of the problem of getting a job. What will the Council of State do in this area, while now improving the qualification – I understand that we agree on the direction – because it also needs to be solved if we are to get everyone to work that is qualified for work?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e591	Let me first say that when it's laid down, it's because immigration goes down. But it is also the case that they are maintained in the successful municipalities. I myself have had the pleasure of visiting Vinje, who has been brought forward in this room on several occasions as an example of a small municipality that is successful in integration and has spent a long time on good everyday integration and qualification. I share the analysis that it is difficult for some people to get a job because they have a foreign-sounding name. I believe that working practices and the programmes we can run through the introduction programme can help to make things easier. If you have first been in practice and shown what you can do, it is also easier to get a job next time. Then we have a job to do in the public sector. Both state, municipalities and county councils can go ahead. We also have some formulations that are related to it in the JELUEA declaration.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e600	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e608	We have to succeed better in getting people into the world of work. It is essential for them to be able to stand on their own feet and for their families, but equally important for the welfare society of Norway and its sustainability. There are municipalities that get it, and the success factor for the municipalities that get it – and I expect the Council of State to have experienced the same tour as me – is two-way. One is that they succeed in qualifying newcomers, but they also succeed in making them part of the local environment. These are the two most effective measures. That is why it is good that we already want to start qualifying asylum recipients, to have Norwegian and social skills there. I also think that is a recognition from a government that has previously proposed to cut Norwegian training on asylum recipients: that it is important to start Norwegian training there already. Then it's important that we both manage to get newcomers in, and look at the experience we've done historically: that many people don't endure in the world of work over time. That recognition is serious, because it's again about the sustainability of the welfare society, and how we're going to give the people the basic knowledge they need. It is then that the successful municipalities, such as Sunndal, which I've visited, gives people primary school and a course and an opportunity to get into work, in combination with along the way – where you set up and thus get an entrance to the labour market, which is safe and lasting, and thus contributes to the community. Then I think that when these examples exist, we must not wait: we must implement. It's crucial. Then I think that we need to have a discussion – at least it is clear to the Workers' Party – that some cash benefits, which are also mentioned in the notes the Committee has provided, such as the cash support, are not good for making immigrants stand in the labour market over time. And that's especially what makes Norway an amazing and rich country – it's not just oil or fish: it's people, and there's a high level of employment among women and men. Then we don't have to have arrangements that make them qualified and going into a working life, they choose to be at home, and that the kids don't get into kindergarten, so they can Norwegian at school.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e621	I think, as the Council of State was concerned, that we agree on the direction, and I look forward to revising the introduction programme with the aim of getting more people into permanent work or into further education. What made me take the floor was that the Council of State specifically mentioned that it had not stopped the receptions that had very good results to point to. But in Meld. St. 30 for 2015–2016, i.e. from this government, one went for example. Sunndal received as a reception that had succeeded very well with the integration, far above the national average, of those who lived. That was the reception of the previous Minister for Integration. Obviously, if we put down those who have built up competence, in this case for over 30 years, at least we don't take care of the knowledge that's out there, to actually make sure that our new countrymen are integrated. It's a shame, but it's a little special that the Council of State pulled it up, as he did. In addition, I did not get an answer to my question – that is, the question I asked here in the reply box, whether the Council of State shares the description of the representative, Engen-Helgheim, that the previous government offered to ensure that the immigrants were ‘good at troubling through the Norwegian system’ – it was probably the words that were used – or whether he does not. As the Council of State had in mind, in 2015 we had a very great challenge to face up to everyone who came. So the Council of State has now taken up the introduction programme to ensure that the new ones who are coming and who are to be accepted will be able to qualify for good integration and not least for language training. And that's what this is all about. It's about what opportunities we give our new countrymen to learn languages, so that we can ensure good integration. But it takes money. I had a play on this in my first post: how do you imagine this should be financed in the municipalities, when you see the lack of teachers and other challenges, including on the interpretation side, with which I assume the Council of State is well aware? It did not want the Council of State to respond to this, and I note that there are several parties in this Chamber who have not responded to the remark that this must be financed if the municipalities are to be able to succeed. At least you don't want to go into which areas the municipalities might have to deprioritise. It's clear that when you're going to prioritize everything, there's some government councils who are happy to say that it's not possible. It's not, either, unless you actually let money follow the tasks you're imposing on them. So here is a directive that the Central Party agrees with, but the central party does not agree with the government, is how it might be financed. I repeat the question: is the Council of State planning to finance the increased objectives of competence?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e632	I notice that the Council of State is justifying a lack of commitment to the fact that it was a refugee crisis. Yes, that is exactly why more effort should be made to integrate and not wait. Then it's so vital that those who can almost go straight out to work can get it done, and those who need training get to start with it very early. Then you can't cut Norwegian training, as the government did. So one of the most important means of integration was cut off, so if you knew that many of the people who came were going to be, because they were refugees from Syria. In my view, it proves that until now the government has not had, it seems like neither a heart nor a commitment to this. But I'm glad that the Council of State now seems to have a different attitude. We need to analyse what kind of work we have in Norway. It is a working life that requires a high level of competence. We have to take that on board both when we talk about measures and qualification for all those who go on the Nav, but also for refugees. There is also a working life for those who are unskilled, but it is not so great, and it often requires very good physical condition. It also requires that you know Norwegian. A great many of those who come here have a high level of competence and not least many talents and abilities that can be triggered by good, meaningful and qualifying empowerment. Then SV and my claim that it is much better that we ensure the economy that people can stand three years in qualification, than that they end up in social security for the rest of their lives. It's better for us, it's better for them, it's better for everyone. We have to do this because the working life requires it. I would like to refer to that draft representative, one of them, as the SV promoted in the previous period, where we made more than 50 proposals when it came to integration. When you connect advanced vocational training with the introduction system, you get those who do it, much faster through – to jobs that the municipality of Norway and the labour force in Norway are screaming for. It's smart to do it this way, and it's possible. Someone's done it, so it's really just getting started. So to the Job Dance. It is the system for women who are far from working life. There the government has restricted the personality. If you're so bad out there that you come for social assistance, you can't get the job. Job opportunities need to be broadened in terms of personality and scope, as women are needed to get into work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e645	I think the Council of State is somewhat high and dark in its answers, but I would like to thank him for being open to our proposals, although he cannot support them until he launches them as his own. I just have to get a welcome after. The government has had five years. If the Council of State needs more inspiration, he can only look up all the good suggestions we made in the last period, which the government parties voted down.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e650	Double communication turns out to be full flower in Stortinget. The Government – the Advance Party, the Right Party and now the Left – at the Council of State, and the representatives of Engen-Helgheim and Thommes have been excellent examples. Engen-Helgheim opens up by saying that the Introduction Act has agreed to teach immigrants to wander through the system, implicitly to dig as far as possible of the welfare goods, without them being interested in giving anything back. It's the entrance of the Progress Party. This is the position and view of the Progress Party in the matter – and without having done anything about it in the coming five years that the Progress Party has been responsible for in government. That's this picture the Progress Party wants to draw. They do it all with open eyes. That's the rhetorical Progress Party presents. Then the government partner comes to the right, at the representative Thommess, on the track with the post he's making, which has a completely different angle. The representative, Thommessen, is actually putting the cabinet in place in front of the representative, Engen-Helgheim, and that's good. It was right of the representative Thommes to do it, as I perceived his posts. Then the Council of State comes on the track, corrects the Workers' Party and places emphasis on the importance of trusting rhetoric – and does not answer the question from the representative Nordlund about what the Council of State thinks about the rhetoric of the government partners Progress Party and the representative Engen-Helgheim. I hope the Council of State will take its government partner Progress Party in school on the theme of ‘Trust-building rhetoric’. There is a strong need for that. That the Council of State will not correct its fellow government here in the main hall, I can understand to this extent, even if it had been entirely in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e661	I think it is appropriate to remind Stortinget that the topic of this matter is actually changes to the law of introduction and how we are going to get language training in the receptions. I stand in the line of the impatient. I also understood that the Council of State is in the same line. That is why I am quite surprised when I hear the direction in which the debate develops. We shouldn't discuss who's the best, who's the worst, and who said what? I am concerned that results are delivered in this area. This is the first step, and to me it doesn't matter whether it's the Workers' Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party or the Advance Party that promotes the proposals. I'm busy with the people this applies, because this needs to be done to get a good integration.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e666	Sometimes the greater the consensus in the hall, the higher the degree of discord becomes in the debate. This is actually one thing where everyone has pointed in the same direction. We agree that something should be done. In my post I said something about what has happened before. We have been too poor to handle applications quickly enough. We've been too bad to live fast enough. This government has done something about it and brought down the times dramatically. I pointed out that it is important that we start the integration work earlier, which we all agree on. It has been pointed out that there was a major challenge after 2015 with all those who came then. Even then, we were able to make people live and bet on integration with our integration recipients, who have had great success – and the government takes the experience further into the work. When I say that we have too much lacked focus on the correction of work in the introduction system, that is quite right. There has been too much focus on how to get through the Norwegian system — perhaps a little without goals and meaning. That's why we're doing something about it. That is why the whole Storting agrees with what we are about to adopt. We're going to change what we've been doing, to something that's new and better. If it's bad rhetoric to point to what's the basis for what we're doing, then I'm very surprised. It just indicates that the opposition in case after case is just trying to create disagreements that really don't exist, instead of discussing the issues. It has also been announced by the government that there will be a new and greater review of the law of introduction, and then you can go even further in order to put in place all the good measures that I am absolutely sure we agree on. The government wants to bring with it – I'm sure – the recordings that have been made. Coming here and creating disagreement and criticizing a rhetoric that we all really agree with, I think is nice. This only suggests that the opposition in this case does not dare point out why they actually agree with the government – that it was too bad, that we want to improve it, so that it can actually start working.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e677	The representative, Karin Andersen, has had the word twice before and thus gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e682	First to the post that was last made, to create a disagreement: it's an old saying that by itself you have to know others. Something else I don't think it is necessary to say about that matter. I would like to say to the representative Bransdal that the reason why there is a bit of temperature is that all of us who have proposed this is concerned about the matter. We're busy with people, and we've been busy for years. It's over-mature to take greater action – and we know it. Two governments have dropped two public samples, there's research report on research reports, there's reports from those who work on this in the receptions and in the municipalities, telling us what to do. And it's urgent, because we know that if it goes year after year without people getting into work, or you might get a lot of negative experiences -- you get into work, but you don't get fixed work, out and out again, lots of losses -- then the threshold is also raised to finally succeed. It's serious, and the commitment comes because we're busy with the people.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e691	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e707	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e716	The case concerns Innst. 319 L for 2017-2018, on amendments to the Kindergarten Act etc. In the proposal, the government proposes that a minimum requirement be laid down for basic personnel in kindergartens. Furthermore, it is proposed to legislate an obligation to cooperate on the transition of children from kindergarten to school and SFO, requirements for Norwegian skills for directors and pedagogical managers, and offers for alternative and supplementary communication if necessary. An overall committee agrees that a standard of personnel should be introduced in kindergartens. It is also very much in agreement with the hearing bodies. Then the views of the various parties differ in whole or in part. Today, on the part of the Labour Party, we are promoting ten proposals, with the hope of improving the norm and correcting the weaknesses of the government proposal and in the position of the majority of the committee. The Labour Party has been working for many years to introduce a standard of service in the kindergarten that ensures that children meet enough safe adults every day. For us, it's obvious that investing in kindergarten is one of the funniest and most important things that politicians can do. It pays off for work and for equality, and it gives our kids a better starting point for the meeting with the rest of their lives. In kindergarten, our kids are going to have a good place to be. They shall socialise, integrate, learn languages and skills through play. Some employees with the right skills are the most important factor for good quality. There is broad support for the standard of living in the kindergarten sector, but the government has managed to meet the resistance of almost all teams to its proposal. The working party, like KS, PBL, employees and parents, is not satisfied. The government lacks solutions for what many people are busy with, such as long opening hours, increased part-time or temporary work. The government does not put a single penny on the table to pay for its own norm, but pushes the bill over to others. The working party cares that our children will receive the best possible offer. Government parties have not provided any solutions to ensure adequate staffing even early and late in the day. We therefore propose requirements that ensure that children have enough adults around them in kindergartens with particularly long opening hours, and we also want to know more about children's periods in kindergarten. Government parties do not propose solutions to avoid increased use of part-time in the kindergarten sector. We want a decision to ensure that time use in municipalities and kindergartens does not increase. Instead of pushing the entire bill onto the kindergartens and municipalities, the Workers' Party wants a transitional arrangement with additional funds from the autumn 2018. In this case, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre also propose that the norm be properly evaluated, so as to keep an eye on the implementation and to provide a basis for improvement. Even so, the government parties and the Christian People’s Party have announced that they will vote against it. When the Storting is going to deal with the matter today, not the government parties and the Christian People's Party's main proposal is to correct the weaknesses with the norm, but to ask for a transitional rule that means a postponement of the introduction of the recruitment norm in the kindergarten. Instead of solving the problems, the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and, unfortunately, the Christian People's Party choose to postpone the norm for one year. It's not responding to the challenges, it's not offensive, and the government's putting the kids on hold. It wouldn't have been necessary. As early as 2015, the opposition at Stortinget asked the government to come up with a plan for how to reach the requirement for a standard. The government has had the opportunity to take action and improve the implementation of the norm and prepare it. The government hasn't. The result is, as we know, that the KS, a number of municipalities and the Landsförbund of Private Barnehager are protesting, among other things. against underfinancing. The Education Association and the Trade Union and others point to clear weaknesses in the norm. In order to ensure that the standard of living gives children more adults and becomes a real quality lift for the kindergartens, the Workers' Party believes that improvements are necessary. The employees, parents and kindergartens provide for the children. We have to do the same thing. I would like to promote the proposals put forward by the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e741	The representative Martin Henriksen has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e746	I want to start by thanking for a good cooperation in the Committee on a case that has created a lot of commitment, and where it has been important to get together on good solutions. Early efforts are incredibly important, and research has shown how targeted actions can make a strong contribution to raising our kids up and down, so that we can all get a more equal start in life. The role of kindergarten as an important and early part of a training course is central to today’s debate. I warmly welcome the commitment of parents and sincerely believe that the increased focus of society and the Big City on the quality and content of kindergartens will contribute greatly to a good growth and a better starting point for more of our children when they are about to start their schooling as well. Even I am the father of two small children, and I know what the nursery has done for my four-year-old, so that he handles social situations, learns to play and share with others, connect friendships, masters, be challenged and build confidence. It's learned through play, and the social skills contribute to lifting more than we that parents had done alone. I understand that a large proportion of the parents in the studies therefore actually express great satisfaction around today's nursery services. But at the same time we know that it can get better, so this law too. The introduction of the framework plan, for example, contributes to ensuring the focus on quality, content and a common sector target. As we increase educational density, we are committed to raising the number of professionals, which gives greater opportunities for development and quality work, in the sector. It is similar with the introduction of the standard of living now, a norm we do not already have, which will contribute to an adult density and capacity in the kindergarten sector that help to provide more opportunities and not least support during the educational work of pedagogical pedagogues and those with professional depression do daily in their day-to-day activities in kindergartens. It's important to clarify here too today that this is a minimum standard. This means that all kindergarten owners have a responsibility to ensure a safe manning throughout the opening hours. In this way, it's just to see that the sector has already, through a series of grips, actually gone beyond what we through law here on the Great Britain have adopted. This means that, through diversity, we have actually contributed to a quality development that I believe will also contribute to further development of this diversity in the future, and that is a quality that we need to protect strongly. I note that there are different views on this diversity even when we take this debate. We know that 73 pst. by day-care facilities complying with these requirements. That means that more than every four kindergartens will take hold of the time that comes. Thus, there is every reason to believe that those who have expressed their dissatisfaction and want us to go further will see real changes in the sector. I believe that the transitional arrangement we have now agreed on in the majority helps to ensure the necessary flexibility when we say that the law should be introduced two years before what we promised in the Sunvolden platform. We're going to bring it into force from August 1st this year, but we're going to make a transition until August 1st next year and then give the flexibility that is needed, and that I know a lot of people have wanted. It is also important to say that there are exceptions in the law to be used very narrowly, because there is no doubt that we should have high pressure in the future when we are going to have great ambitions for the sector. In addition, when we tighten up and send out clear signals about this with local leaders, when it comes to temporary employment – which will of course apply to the whole sector, private and public – when we point to the need for an independent supervision system to follow up the individual kindergarten, and when you also look at the funding system and address, among other things. The challenges of private kindergartens now during this transitional period, I believe that we have come to those who have expressed themselves and pointed out some of the challenges, far in the face, that we are now going to see major action being taken out there in the sector and that there will be improvements. We're going to follow this closely, as opposed to what the representative Martin Henriksen might say. We from the government parties and the Christian People's Party have asked that we have an evaluation and that we get a report in spring 2019 and spring 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e763	This issue is about several measures we are taking to ensure a smoother and better transition for the children from kindergarten to school. It's on the table, among other things. a proposal for an obligation to cooperate on the transition of children from kindergarten to school and SFO, which seems to be a very good proposal, because it is important that children have a soft transition from kindergarten to school. The mutual obligation now established between kindergartens and school will ensure that children will have an introduction to school that will make it easier when they begin their first day of school. The case also includes requirements for Norwegian skills for managers and pedagogical leaders in kindergarten. It is also a proposal The Progress Party wholeheartedly supports the fact that, in order to ensure that leaders and pedagogical leaders have to document basic Norwegian skills in order to obtain these positions in kindergartens, it also means that early efforts and better language training in kindergarten will ensure better integration. So it's the matter of staffing standards, basic staffing for kindergarten, which has caused some reactions. The majority of adults agree that there should be one employee per three children under three years of age and one employee in kindergarten for six children over three years of age. So with that, it's national expectation of what a crew in the kindergarten situation is going to be. I think this is very important, because you can see that there is a big difference in Kommune-Norway now. Three-quarters of Norwegian municipalities already comply with this norm, but it is important to take firm action now on the expectations of kindergartens, regardless of whether they are public or private. Then it is important to say that, in general, the inhabitants of Norway are well satisfied with their nursery services. This year, the largest parental survey of the ages has been conducted, with 94 pst. parents respond that they are satisfied with their kindergarten offer, regardless of whether it is public or private. We should be incredibly proud of that. 78 pst. Of the same parents, they are satisfied with the current situation with regard to staff density — yes, it is actually 78 pst. of the municipalities that are complying with the norm today, which I suppose is the reason for that. Another important element of the survey that has been carried out is that parents are evenly more satisfied with private kindergartens than with the public. That is why, in the Progress Party, we are now concerned that we ensure that this standard is set up in such a way that both public and private have the opportunity to follow it up. We ensure with this better transitional arrangements to ensure that private individuals receive the same grant to run kindergartens. Today, there is a funding system that grants private kindergartens from two-year-old accounts in municipalities. Now it's important to close this gap. With new staffing requirements, the private should also receive better grants. When we talk to private kindergartens in the Progress Party, some of the things they often point out are that the subsidy scheme in Norway is so different. It can vary from NOK 40000 to NOK 100000 for one nursery place what you receive from the government, depending on the municipality you live in. We think that's wrong. The promotion party had wanted a national rate for the cost of a kindergarten in Norway. Unfortunately, we do not have a majority for that. But what we can do is to ensure that the facility for the grant is improved, that the local manager is a requirement that the municipalities now have to follow up and ensure that they are included in the grant calculation, and that they also ensure that the temporary employment of municipalities is included in the grant calculation. This will ensure a better and fairer funding system for all private kindergartens from one day to the next. They will now receive a one-year transitional period, and we expect all kindergartens in Norway to comply with this standard by August 2019. Then there's another element that the Progress Party has been concerned with over time, and it's about independent supervision. We cannot currently have municipalities that both own kindergartens and are responsible for overseeing their competitors. In complying with this standard, it is important that both public and private kindergartens take responsibility for ensuring a safe manning, and then we must have independent supervision to ensure that both public and private kindergartens are able to deliver on it. I suspect that some of the municipalities around Norway do not want to comply with this norm, and we are not going to have any of that. We do not accept that the municipalities do not take the responsibility they actually have for running kindergartens. It's a municipal responsibility. It is not that we at Stortinget should have detailed management of how all kindergartens in Norway should be operated, the municipalities are responsible for it. So this standard means that municipalities are free to give more money to kindergarten if they want to. By that I also mean that the municipalities are funded. They have received money over the budget framework every year to ensure a variety of services, including: kindergartens. Municipality-Norway has record profits. All of the municipalities that have now failed to comply with the norm have the opportunity to do so. It is a matter of priority, and the Progress Party has a clear expectation that the municipalities will give priority to complying with this norm.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e782	Predictability is one of the key factors in having a safe and good framework to develop to be good, and continue to be good. Kindergartens in our long-term country are currently at risk of major changes in their framework conditions and requirements without any compensation at all. It wasn't predictable. The increased focus on the transition from kindergarten to school and on Norwegian skills is good. We are all pleased that the standard of manning is being adopted. The problem is that when we have introduced a standard of teaching and pedagogical standards that have been compensated, but the pediatric norm does not do so, it is not good administration. It does not provide a good framework for the drivers of kindergartens and the employees of kindergartens, and at the end of the day it makes the future uncertain for many families and children. In a survey conducted by the Landsförbund of Private Barnehager, one of four small private kindergartens announced that they could no longer operate from August as a result of the standard. The government’s opening for the use of dispensation is also critical. Then we're at risk of getting an A and B team of kindergartens, where the B team plays on borrowed time. Further figures show that in 2016 there were 111 municipalities with an average crew of 6.1 children or more per year. In these 111 municipalities there were 75 420 children in the private kindergartens, which corresponded to over half of all children in kindergartens in these municipalities. If the municipalities are now manning in their own kindergartens to meet the standard of manning from 1 August of this year, this will mean that the private kindergartens will not receive a grant for manning until the autumn of 2020. It is not sustainable in a publicly funded sector. The financial system is overly mature for change. It's good that we get a majority to look at models to ensure the diversity of kindergartens. At the same time, when the government parties and the Christian People's Party here in Stortinget ask the government to look at a transitional arrangement until 1 August 2019, we risk that not all the children in these kindergartens will be guaranteed an offer in line with the new national recruitment requirements before the earliest in 2021. Then enough of these children are finished in kindergarten, and new children have arrived. It is not difficult to accept that this is a practical challenge. The kindergarten admission has already been completed and the places filled, the employees have negotiated their employment contracts, and staffing and holiday settlement have been set, not to forget the 2018 budget, which will make the ends meet. How should it be practicable for these kindergartens to operate in a good way without any kind of financial compensation? How can children in small private kindergartens be confident that their kindergarten will continue to exist? The standard of manning comes during a debate on profits in kindergartens. The centre party believes it is a mistake to cut all the kindergartens over one and the same comb in this case. The kindergarten sector is as diverse as our country is. Some few should not be able to destroy the many who are serious and not least non-profit-making. Now, when the ministry introduces a standard of manning, and calculates the costs and consequences of them on a national scale, it's quite obvious to most of us that it's going to be enormously out of control. Should the standard of navigation be relevant, it must apply to all children in all kindergartens and must be funded. From the autumn onwards, the introduction of pedagogical norms is already giving rise to a certain alarm in kindergartens, a concern that people and wage costs need to be reversed. Redisposing people and resources takes time. The party called for a one-year deferral of the entry into force of the Staff Regulations in order to give the kindergartens one year to take care of their employer's responsibilities and the government one year to finance their promises. It could also have provided for a transitional arrangement for small and private kindergartens, which are currently receiving grants based on two-year-old accounts from municipal kindergartens. The norm was to calm down, not to worry, asked the nursery uprising. We wanted greater security for the children and the employees. Worst of all, we're going to have the closure of kindergartens. At best, we will reduce the number of children in kindergartens, but then we will also risk losing the coverage we have worked hard and for a long time to get in place. This is a joyous day: We adopt a standard of crewing, and we are agreed that there will be an increased focus on the transition from kindergarten to school and on Norwegian skills in kindergartens. That's good. But the funding was to be in place. I'm dealing with the proposals of the Centerpartiet alone, and what we have with SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e812	The representative Marit Knutsdatter Strand has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e817	First, I would like to say that Norwegian kindergartens provide children with a safe, good and sound offer, and that a good standard of staffing is important to ensure that all children have a good kindergarten offer. Nevertheless, we know that there are considerable variations, and that is precisely why the introduction of a national recruitment code is very important and something that has been longed for by parents and employees. And there's been cross-political agreement on that for a long time. When the proposal is then submitted to the Storting, however, the government has been able to destroy a cause of joy and a feast day for the kindergartens. The standard of living, which was supposed initially to be a cause of joy, has created frustration and great commitment among parents and employees through the nursery uprising and the parental uprising, and I understand that. Last Friday, I visited a kindergarten in Eastfold. There the employees told us honestly about many children per adult, especially at the beginning and end of the day, about framework plans that they do not have nubjeschanse to fulfill because of low staffing, and that in reality there are only a few hours in the middle of the day everyone is working at the same time. These kindergarten teachers claimed that a nursery norm only looks good on paper because it should not apply throughout the opening hours. A story from the stories of the kindergarten workers in #unrequitable is: ‘I have often been sitting on the floor from 1 p.m. 16:00 to 5:00 as the only adult. Alone with 10 children. Only waited for parents and made sure that no one was hurt.’ You can have as many competent employees as you want, but when you're alone with ten children, there's not much else to do than this kindergarten teacher tells you about. Unfortunately, this story is not unique. I cannot conclude, after a day of so frank reports, with anything other than the fact that it is alarming that when a proposal for a standard of personnel is finally promoted in the Stortinget, there will be massive criticism from several teams. This testifies to poor political craftsmanship on the part of the government. Not only has the government failed in facilitating a good implementation in the kindergarten sector, they have also not put a single penny on the table to compensate the kindergartens for increased expenditure. More seriously, the concern is that this is a standard of staffing that looks fine on paper, but does not solve the need for staffing in kindergartens and in the departments. The government is once again showing its true face – they are skits with the children, while at the same time giving great tax relief to the richest in this country. SV believes that the large money has to go to the small children, and I agree with the employees and the parents that the norm needs to be strengthened to ensure good staffing throughout the opening hours of the nursery. The SV therefore proposes that this should be strengthened, inter alia: by: Minimum 50 pst. by staff shall be nursery teachers; the ratio between children and employees shall not be calculated as a percentage; Additional annual works shall be required for a long period of opening and, last but not least, that: need to be inserted in case of absence These are very important measures to address the concerns of parents and employees and to provide timely warnings against government proposals. It is obvious that the Minister of Knowledge does not have the will to find constructive solutions when he rejects both parents and employees for their claim that the norm is effective throughout the opening hours, costing 14 billion. kr. I would like to refer to the SV's proposal, which shows that it is possible to strengthen the manning so that it has a real effect on the whole opening time of the kindergarten, and I encourage this hall to listen to those who know the best everyday life – so that this can be a kindergarten party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e860	One of the most important tasks we have as politicians is to make sure that our kids get a good upbringing. A playful and educational childhood provides the basis for a good adulthood. Kindergarten and school are our most important common institutions, and they must ensure that all children have equal opportunities to live their lives as they wish. Fortunately, we have very many good kindergartens in Norway today, and I am absolutely sure that most Norwegian parents have the same experience as I have when I deliver the two-year-old in kindergarten. We feel that our kids are in good hands. We know that they're fine when they're in kindergarten while we're at work, and we're not least impressed every time we hear about all the fun and exciting things that employees do with our kids, and when we see how they contribute positively to the development of our children. But we also know that the manning and therefore also the quality varies too much. We can talk a lot about the importance of the skills of employees, and this government also demands it, but in many situations it is important to be enough adults. To date, there has been no national minimum number of employees in kindergartens. It suggests the government in this case to do something about it, and we in the Left are very happy about it. The staffing and overall competence of the kindergarten are of great importance for the quality of the offer. In order to meet the needs of children for care, play and learning, a sufficient number of adults — competent adults — are important in kindergarten. Today, as several representatives have also pointed out before me, the vast majority of kindergartens already meet what we have set as a minimum standard, and therefore in many places a national standard will not necessarily lead to major changes from day one. But in the kindergartens that have too low staffing today, this norm will provide more employees at work, and this will very concretely lead to more young people than today getting a good follow-up. Then I will, as among others. The representative Gudmundsen made his statement, stressing that the standard of manning is a minimum requirement. The nursery owners are free to have more employees than the norm. It is the municipalities and other kindergarten owners who are responsible for ensuring that staffing is sufficient at all times to provide a satisfactory pedagogical offer. In many places it could mean that you need more employees than what is the norm Stortinget here today decides. The requirement for a satisfactory pedagogical offer applies regardless of the standard we are now proposing. So to the parents and kindergarten employees who think that this norm is too ambitious, I would say that there is always room to prioritize using more resources locally to further strengthen the nursery provision. Then there are many, especially small private kindergartens, who fear that it will be too demanding to implement this promise financially. To that I would say that the Left is committed to preserving a diversity in the sector. We don't want to reinforce a trend where we get fewer and fewer independent actors. We will therefore follow developments closely and make sure that we manage to implement this quality promise without taking the break of the many small ones who do a great job. Finally, as Mr Bruun-Gundersen also said in his speech, I would like to stress that this matter is more than a standard of manpower, although it is the proposal that has been the most discussed and debated before the debate. In addition to the standard of navigation, we have a proposal on the table here today to legislate on a requirement for Norwegian skills for managers and educators and to clarify the childcare provision for children with the need for alternative and supplementary communication. The government also proposes in this case that an obligation be imposed on kindergarten owners and school owners to cooperate on the important transition from kindergarten to school and school leisure — a theme that we might come back to in a later debate today. Today’s legislation does not provide clear rules for cooperation in this area, and legalising an obligation to cooperate on the transition of children will help make it safer and better for all children. Together, we are absolutely sure that these four legislative proposals will provide an even better day for all Norwegian kindergarten children.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e877	Our children deserve only the best, and we politicians have a responsibility to ensure that all children have good kindergartens. The Christian People's Party has therefore worked for a long time to establish a standard of personnel in the kindergartens, and I am pleased that there is now a total greatness that will adopt this. Several adults in kindergarten will provide increased quality and ensure that children who go to kindergarten, which is the vast majority of Norwegian children, will have more adults who can see them, comfort them, provide care and facilitate a quality increase in the offer. Today's adoption of a standard of manpower is therefore a great victory – above all for our children – which ensures more equality in the supply around our country. This matter has been marked by a lot of debate and wishes for improvements from different teams. I would like to take this opportunity to thank parents, kindergarten teachers, private kindergartens and municipalities for the commitment shown in this important matter for our children. It's good to see that we all have a common desire for a good kindergarten for our children. For the Christian People's Party, it has been important to ensure that the standard of manning will actually contribute to a difference, and that conditions are well suited so that both private and municipal kindergartens can meet the norm. We are therefore not satisfied that the government's proposal for a standard of living will be financed without funds to finance this new requirement, and understand the concern of the kindergarten owners, both the municipal and – not the least – the private, for how this will affect our children. In particular, this is a challenge for private kindergartens, which, under today’s scheme, will not be increased until two years from now. We are particularly concerned about the small and ideal kindergartens, which tell us about closures and too tight a economy to carry such a boost. We have therefore proposed that the government should come back with a financing plan to address these concerns and cover additional costs for municipalities after a fair distribution and a transitional arrangement for private kindergartens. It is natural when the Storting adopts a new requirement to be met quickly, that it also includes funds. We need these kindergartens, and we need to facilitate the diversity of the offer by, in particular, caring for the small, ideal kindergartens. Another point of concern is the time of introduction. The government has now delivered this matter just before the summer of 2018, with proposals for the introduction of the norm from 1 August this year. We in the Christian People's Party agree that there is an urgent need to establish a norm, but we also understand that municipalities and private people need some time to change and mannify to comply with the norm. We are therefore pleased that there is an agreement that the norm will be introduced from 1 August 2018, but that it will be given a one-year phase-in period, which will ensure a good implementation until 1 August 2019. I call this no postponement, as the representative Henriksen describes it as, I would call it time to make the necessary preparations. We're writing today on May 31st. It's two months to August 1st. This is a requirement that, among other things: PBL and Martin Henriksen's party colleague responsible for kindergartens in Bergen have requested. We give them a little bit more time, so that this can be a good reform, which can be well prepared. The Christian People's Party has long been concerned that there is a need for independent supervision of the kindergarten sector. The fact that municipalities supervise themselves and the private sector is not good enough and has led many private individuals to report that they experience the supervision as distorted between them and the municipal authorities. I am therefore very pleased that the government parties now agree with the need for this, and that there is now to be an independent oversight. Finally, I would like to say that it is important to continue to monitor how this norm turns out, evaluate and follow up the various issues that arise in this debate, so that we can put in place a norm that can work for our children. We therefore expect continuous updates from the government to this effect and, based on these, will assess the need for changes, possibly in the standard of manning. I am promoting the proposal behind the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e895	The representative Hans Fredrik Gruvan has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e900	The kindergarten shall be a place of care, play and learning and provide the child with a good sense of self-image, social competence and language. What happens in kindergarten is an important part of our children's lives. Red will give all children the opportunity to go to kindergarten, and those who have children in a kindergarten will feel that it is based on the needs of their children. Kindergartens are also the workplace for a lot of people, and we know that the most important thing about the offer to our children is that there are enough employees in kindergartens and that they have the right skills. That's why we in Red listen to both the Barnhage uprising, the Parent Rebellion, the Education Association and the Trade Union because they know where the shoe prints in terms of the situation in the kindergartens. It is good that there is a national staffing standard, but the government's proposals have many obvious shortcomings. Red will have a better norm, which also takes into account that one-year-olds need resources. We know that 73 pst. by kindergartens, comply with the norm that is now being introduced. In other words, it's too tight. It also does not take into account the opening time, the length of stay or working time, and what we hear from kindergartens is that employees are not present with the children fully for more than a few hours in the middle of the day. Many have also experienced and have experienced that kindergartens do not insert temporary workers in the absence until after 16 days when the government takes the bill. The campaign #unresponsible reveals many stories that are worrying. What's good is that brave employees have gone to the top to tell us about this and require better staffing, because they see the consequences of poor staffing. Their requirement is quite clear: the standard of manning must apply throughout the opening hours of the nursery. We agree. We also have to go in to call for temporary workers from day one in case of absence if the recruitment norm is to be real. We are also opposed to granting exemptions from the requirements. There will be a lock door for those who do not want to meet the requirements on the basis of e.g. commercial motives. That door must, in our view, be closed. The report received by the Council of State a few days ago states that the large commercial kindergarten chains have a profit of 28 p.m., i.e. more than three times the profit on the stock exchange – money taken straight out of the kindergartens – our common tax money. On Tuesday, the Minister of Knowledge said that these profits mean that we have to look at the legislation again. It is high time that the government also realized that when money is taken from kindergartens for private profit, it is a problem because the money is taken from the children. The report from Telemark research shows that the large commercial kindergarten chains have greater profits than other types of private kindergartens, and they also have the lowest staffing of the private kindergartens. This suggests that the commercials have held back from manning to increase profits. It is not the task of the Storting to reward such a policy of increasing the grants to these kindergartens. We must ensure that the money goes to the best of the children – not to the welfare professionals. Therefore, we are in favour of a better standard of staffing with increased transfers to the municipalities to compensate for this, but we are against increased appropriations that subsidise profits from the welfare professionals. It's a completely meaningless use of tax money that Storting must not happen. We therefore propose that additional appropriations to finance the standard be reserved for non-profit-making and municipal kindergartens or otherwise ensure that kindergartens and kindergartens with lower staff and large profits are not given additional appropriations. I would like to take up the Red's proposal in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e915	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e920	The kindergartens are important as common arenas for us as society, and they are important everyday arenas for many thousand children every day. It makes kindergartens an important playground for play and development, but it also imposes a great responsibility to ensure that children have safe and good days in kindergartens. We have had quality requirements in kindergartens, but until today there has been no national minimum staffing requirements. The government wants to ensure enough adults in kindergarten through a responsible standard. Kindergarten is part of the educational cycle and an important arena for integration and early intervention. It is important for children to have the follow-up they need to meet competent, committed and caring adults. There are too many differences between kindergartens today, both in terms of the number of adults and their competences. Through the action group Kindergarten Rebellion 2018, kindergarten employees have recently shared stories from kindergarten everyday life. These stories hit me, and they show that there is a need for clearer regulation. At the same time, stories and stories about how they make it work in many places show that good organisation and good management are important. As a national minimum, we propose that there should be at least one employee per three children under three years of age and one employee per six children over three years of age. This will give more children better follow-up than before. The Staff Code has been notified since the Kindergarten Law Committee in 2012, and the Stoltenberg Government proposed this standard in 2013. So the cost calculation and the arrangements for the proposal have been the same since 2012. I am therefore amazed that several parties now believe something quite different than when they themselves put with government responsibility. The proposal for the standard will provide more staff in kindergartens who currently have low staffing. Kindergartens retain the flexibility to organise their daily life according to the needs and activities of the children. This flexibility is important if we are to have sports children’s gardens, outdoor children’s gardens, music children’s gardens, community children’s gardens – yes, that we take care of the diversity that gives children exciting everyday life. It will, as today, be the responsibility of the nursery owner to ensure that the staff is sufficient at all times to provide a satisfactory pedagogical offer. I believe that a statutory standard will help to ensure the quality of kindergartens. At the same time, we have proposed an exemption scheme that will ensure flexibility. This will include, inter alia: be important for small and individual kindergartens and private kindergartens in municipalities that do not currently comply with the standard of living. The proposal for a standard of navigation is part of our great work to improve the quality of kindergartens. The new framework plan for kindergartens has clear ambitions that require both sufficient staff and good competence of employees. That is why we have also strengthened the demand for the number of kindergarten teachers, and we continue to invest in continuing education. The government also proposes to legislate for kindergarten owners and school owners to cooperate on the transition of children from kindergarten to school and SFO. This transition may be difficult for many children, and especially children with special needs. We also propose to legislate that persons with foreign professional qualifications must document their Norwegian skills in order to become a manager or a pedagogical manager. The requirement for Norwegian skills is a continuation of previous regulation. The proposal also proposes to clarify the childcare provision for children with the need for alternative and complementary communication. For these children, it is essential that they use such forms of communication in kindergarten to be able to relate to adults, develop, make friends and play. Today's proposals have in common that they create better kindergartens and better transition to school for the children, which is our future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e954	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e959	We're glad there's a standard of personnel in the kindergarten. We are critical that the government has done a poor job and caused a lot of concern in the sector of parents and employees. And we disagree with the government that you're not going to put one penny on the table. The council says that the Workers' Party believes something other than what you have done before. Well, I refer to what Kristin Halvorsen said in Stortinget, namely that she would discuss the introduction of the staffing requirement with the municipal sector and make a concrete proposal for the design of the provision and ensure that the municipalities would be fully compensated for the additional costs of the staffing requirement. The government proposes that the educational code be financed differently from this. They propose and have agreed that the teacher’s norm is financed differently from this. What are the principles that the government believes should be applied to a standard for pedagogues at school and kindergarten if it is not to apply to other pedagogue employees?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e968	I would recommend the representative Henriksen to read the section on the economic and administrative implications of the communication made by the Workers' Party when they were in government. The exact same principles have been applied in terms of both the number of employees and how they should be financed. The wonderful thing about this matter is that the Workers' Party in the opposition believes something quite different from what you did in the position. We believe that we should deal with the principles for financing new tasks for municipalities. That is what the Workers' Party did when they were in government, we do when we are in government, and we believe that the crew standard is funded. It turns out that some of the big chains have large profits and low staffing. It also shows that it is possible to get to what is stated in the proposal that we have made and to which the Stortinget seems to join.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e983	I note that the former Minister of Knowledge Kristin Halvorsen believes something different from the Minister of Knowledge of today. Halvorsen said that the municipalities should be fully compensated for the additional costs. Today's knowledge minister believes that the municipalities have enough money. There is very much that is unclear because of a poor preliminary work, a poor investigation by the government – but also in the setting that has come to Stortinget and that we are dealing with today. I want to ask the Council of State about what is going on funding for private kindergartens. In the nomination, government parties ask for the introduction of ‘temporary calculation methods’ that provide private kindergartens with ‘adjusted grants’. What does that mean? Does this mean disregarding the fact that private kindergarten grants are calculated from two-year-old financial statements? Does this mean that all municipalities are forced to base national grant rates? Or is it what we fear, that the municipalities should pay the bill for submitted by their own norm, which the government should actually take? There are two months until the date of entry into force – this should be the response of the government today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e990	It is natural that we wait until the Storting has made its decisions. Once the Storting has made its decisions in this matter, we will consider how this should be followed up. But I record that the representative Henriksen continues to refer to the former Minister of Knowledge from SV, Kristin Halvorsen. She said about the same thing that I have also said that the nursery norm, the staffing norm, is funded. And we use exactly the same principles as the Workers' Party did when they were in government. It's quite fair to change your point of view, it's completely fair, but then you're told that's what you do – from you go to the position and you're responsible until you go to the opposition and you can make demands.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e999	I record that the Council of State does not answer the question. He refers to the Stortinget and that the Stortinget should take its decisions. Everyone involved in such processes knows that there is close dialogue between the government and the government parties before submitting such settings. I am absolutely sure that the Council of State has been involved and knows what the temporary calculation for adjusted grants means. I want to ask about another thing. Now the representative of the Right, Gudmundsen, said that transitional rules should not mean postponement, but to VG 22 May, the High Education Policy spokesman says that the general rule is that the crew will be introduced from 1 August 2019. It's hard to interpret in any other way. What does that mean, for example, when it is in the setting that ‘a certain flexibility’ is to be introduced? Does that mean that there should be some kind of sanctions against kindergartens that violate the norm in the next year, or does this mean that we actually have a postponement, a paper norm, for one year – where the children are put on hold?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1007	Let me just first say that I've answered the questions. Then I register that the representative Henriksen is most concerned about being in opposition and criticising, and that is completely fair. What's going on is what's said here in the hall. We aim to ensure that the standard of manning will apply from 1 August 2018. But it is also the case that we implement this standard two years earlier than the original plan. This means that we aim to ensure that kindergarten owners can decide to implement this first from 1 August 2019. It gives some flexibility in the transition from not having any demands that we actually implement a minimum crew. It's good for kindergartens, and it's good for our children that more children now have more safe adults around them.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1014	This is both a day of joy and potentially a tragic day for some kindergartens. The Centre Party is concerned with the practical implementation of the Staff Code and the actual number of staff employed in the kindergarten today and after the introduction of a basic crew standard. The funding is an appeal point, and a lot has happened since 2012. Today we have the municipality's own audit and County, which check that the law is being followed. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party propose a decision to establish an independent system of supervision for the kindergarten sector. What does the Council of State think about the potential use of resources on a new system of supervision, rather than adding funds for compensation or, where appropriate, a transitional arrangement for kindergartens?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1021	I am pleased that the representative is concerned about the practical implementation, so am I. I don't think this is complicated – of course it's demanding – but here we have some high ambitions, and then we give some flexibility in the implementation and transition. As far as supervision is concerned, it has been shown that there are very few municipalities that have financial supervision of the private kindergartens. I believe that we should look at the pediatric sector's supervisory system. That is why I am pleased with the decision that is being taken today. So we have to consider how to do this. I have also announced that we should look at the regulation of private kindergartens, which enables us to ensure both legitimacy and trust, but also to preserve the important diversity that is in the kindergarten sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1028	It's interesting to discuss supervision. Unfortunately, I feel that part of the distribution responsibility was added to the Stortinget and the Education and Research Committee, perhaps partly in this case as well. When a review of funding and supervision is announced, what will the Council of State say to those who indicate that there will be actual additional costs in the implementation of the Staff Code?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1035	This includes, inter alia: The BDO report has shown, is that some of the big kindergarten chains that have the biggest profits have the lowest crew. There, the standard of manning will help children to benefit from more of the resources. I'm glad. Then – as has also been pointed out – there is a challenge related to private kindergartens because the grant is calculated on the basis of the costs of the municipality, and two years are left behind. It's a challenge. There is a question that I know is also discussed in other negotiations in the Grand Duchy these days.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1042	One of the main reasons for introducing a standard of navigation is that young people will meet well-known, safe adults in kindergarten throughout the week. Therefore, increased use of part-time in the nursery sector will be a negative development both for children and for employees. SV believes that the standard of living must be met by increasing the existing office fractions in the kindergarten, and believes that the government must express a clear expectation of this towards the kindergartens and municipalities. Will the Minister express this expectation? And what will the Minister do to ensure that the standard of manning should not lead to more use of part-time in the sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1049	I want increased use of full time. Once we've put in the formulations we've made, it's also to illustrate that a small nursery doesn't necessarily have to hire a whole new person. This may also mean that an employee in the nursery such as has an 80 pst. position, can get a 100 pst. position. So the recruitment norm and the way it's arranged can also help make it more full-time in kindergarten. This is a problem that I know that KS, the municipalities, both administratively and politically, are also concerned about – that there should be more full-time culture in the municipalities. I have both a strong wish and a hope that it will happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1056	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1063	High adult densities and skilled professionals are essential for good quality in kindergarten. I think we all agree on that. The Labour Party will have made the best efforts around the children, but the challenge in this case is that good intentions are not followed up by necessary investigations and necessary means. Municipalities and kindergartens are not driven by buttons and glossy images. With the proposal we are now discussing, a large extra bill is sent to the kindergartens and to the municipalities. Sarpsborg, my municipality, gets an extra 50 million. kr per year. For Fredrikstad, the neighbouring municipality, it equals 40 million. kr. It has been pointed out that the standard of manning is not met at municipal and kindergarten level, and it has been pointed out by KS that it is underfunded by 1 billion. kr. My municipality is a low-income municipality. We don't have too much of anything there. For every budget, we turn to each krona to find money for good purposes – to get the best possible school, the best possible well-being and the best possible kindergarten of every single krona. On today's front page of Sarpsborg Arbeiderblad you can read that the councillor proposes to lay down 35 hospitals as a direct consequence of the staffing norm, despite the fact that there are people in place waiting. Sarpsborg also has higher child protection expenditure. I don't understand – does the Council of State mean that we should cut here? Sarpsborg is about 70 pst. of kindergartens private. For the private and ideal kindergartens, this can mean the hook on the door. It's an honest thing to prioritize tax cuts rather than welfare, but then I think you should be honest about that. The government has run from the table without paying the bill. I believe that the rapporteur in Sarpsborg sums it up well – ‘depreciation’. A curious thing is that the Right and Advance Party in Sarpsborg, in their draft budgets, have not proposed a single penny more for kindergarten. Then you can ask, why not? The answer is simple. There's no more money. I also see that the government parties point out that an exceptional tax entrance will be used to finance the operation. We all know that is a bad policy. We can't pay the bill with Mastercard. The Workers' Party will have a transitional arrangement with funds for municipalities and for the private and non-profit kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1074	The working party wants all children to receive the best possible offer when the government's nursery norm comes into force in just two months from today. That is why we are promoting eleven proposals to correct weaknesses in the government proposal. The working party has worked for a staff standard for a long time, but it is a norm that accompanies money. Municipalities have never had more and bigger tasks. Well-being to the oldest and to the youngest takes more and more of the budgets. That is why it is not just too easy – it testifies to a lack of respect and understanding for the challenges facing municipalities, when the Minister of Knowledge says that this only manages the municipalities they prioritise, and the Minister of Older People accuses the municipalities of prioritising bathing areas in front of hospitals. The Labour Party agrees with the KS that it is a scandal that no fresh funds come from the government to the norm. There is a billion missing, and in view of that, it is unfair and disappointing that the government continues to act as if the norm is fully funded. The working party will have money for the introduction and a transitional arrangement. We will avoid the norm leading to an increase in part-time and promote more proposals to ensure that the norm gives more adults around the children, because it is alarmingly much unclear in the poorly prepared standard. There are, for example: no solutions to avoid the use of part-time in kindergartens. The council just said from the pulpit that he wanted and hoped for a full-time culture, but there is legitimate reason to believe that increased part-time would be a consequence of the government's proposal for the norm. For this reason, we have proposed that the Stortinget ask the government to clarify to the municipalities that the norm should preferably be met by increasing existing posts and taking action to increase the proportion of full-time jobs in the kindergarten sector. We have also proposed measures to combat non-retirement, such as: The PBL says it's going to be a problem. The government parties are voting us down, so what will they themselves do to ensure that the use of part-time increases? The Minister of Knowledge received a call from 106 local authorities from the Workers' Party where one of the requirements was that the norm should not increase the use of part-time jobs. On this propeller, Sanner replied that the government was of course open to look at adjustments to get a good phase-in of the minimum personnel requirement. What kind of concrete adjustments is what the government sees for itself?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1087	I would like to start by thanking all those who have engaged in the action of the Barnyard uprising. There have been strong stories, and we have listened. We are now proposing a responsible standard to ensure more safe adults around the youngest children. With this proposal, the government is two years ahead of the Staff Regulations and we are well on track with the phase-in of the educational norm, and we have doubled the bet on continuing training for kindergarten workers. It's about creating the safe framework for the smallest children. At the same time, it is very important to carry out our high ambitions properly and to take into account the diversity of the kindergarten sector and the ability of kindergartens to organise their everyday lives differently. The transitional regime will ensure some flexibility while there is no doubt that a standard of manning is now coming. Over 100 municipalities will have to increase their crew, and that is a minimum standard. The local economy has not been that good since the last millennium. We're going to spend 40 billion dollars. kr in kindergarten this year, and I expect Norwegian local politicians who are kindergarten owners and who make elections next year, their responsibilities are also conscious and ensure that the staff and quality are sound. Unfortunately, we know that the quality varies. This applies not only to staffing but to sick leave, good management, the quality of supervision and pedagogical practices. Therefore, in addition to introducing a requested crew standard, the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left and Christian People's Party today proposes a number of other measures to enhance the quality of the sector. We will make more stringent demands to the local head of kindergartens because we know that good management is essential for good pedagogical practice. We want to establish independent supervision, and we want to tighten up on temporary employment. This is particularly important for those small private kindergartens which have a two-year lag on their operating grants. It is striking how the opposition in this debate is trying to ride more horses at the same time when they decide to criticise the fact that there is a civil government that goes ahead and introduces a standard of manning. I note that we are introducing a standard with the same funding model as the red-green ones provided, and the same financing model that we have used to finance other regulatory changes in recent years, including, for example, extension of the right to kindergarten and cheaper kindergarten for low-income families. In addition to this, the government parties and the Christian People's Party introduce a number of other important restrictions to improve the quality of the nursery sector. There are changes that the red-greens did not make and that they have not proposed. The standard of living and the transition between kindergarten and school is one of several important measures we are now taking to increase the quality of the kindergarten sector. We're going to follow the implementation of it carefully and make adjustments when necessary, because our goal is for all children to experience a good day of kindergarten no matter where they live, no matter what kindergarten they go in.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1101	Some of the recordings that have been made in the debate have been about the fact that private kindergartens have not had enough transitional arrangements, and that the Landsförbund of Private Barnehager has had a concern that more kindergartens had to be reduced as a result of the norm. Well, it has taken responsibility for the Advance Party, the Right Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party. Through this case, we have made proposals to ensure good transition arrangements for the private sector. We ensure a transition period of one year, until 2019, we reduce the lag, and we create a new model that ensures funding so that the private kindergartens can also meet the new norm. It is an important principle for the Progress Party that no one should lose the nursery for the autumn or any other time. Full child care coverage is essential in Norwegian society. That is why we also demand that implementation be realistic. Then I have to point out Red's posts, which criticize the big kindergarten chains. Red would have to do that, but the reality is that the vast majority of kindergartens today operate on the margin. We have 800 private kindergartens in Norway that are actually running short. We're really worried that the private kindergartens won't have enough profit. That is why we need to ensure a funding system that makes it possible to operate in the private sector in Norway today. What the Red actually suggests here is that you start to discriminate from how much profit you have in your chain. Actually, it doesn't matter. In Norway, equal grants should be granted to all kindergartens, irrespective of who operates them. The important thing for us must be that the parents are satisfied with the kindergarten and have real freedom of choice to choose for themselves the nursery they want to send their children to. Kinderhagene is a municipal responsibility. It seems to me that the Workers' Party does not want to take responsibility for the kindergartens in its municipalities, and I find that regrettable. More than half of the kindergartens that have not complied with this norm are Arbeiderparti-steered kindergartens, and they have to take responsibility for it themselves. If they believe that the manning situation in their own kindergartens is not good enough, yes, they must give priority to it. Red and SV want this norm to apply throughout the opening hours of the nursery. It is easy for Red and SV to think, because they want to send that bill to taxpayers. It was estimated that this would cost 14 billion. kr. This will either lead to an increase in parental pay by NOK 21 000 per year or to a bill of NOK 3 500 per year being sent directly to all taxpayers. It's easy to spend other people's money. The progress party thinks it's completely wrong, especially in a sector where 94 pst. by the parents are already satisfied. Then it will be referred to Sarpsborg and Fredrikstad. Sarpsborg had a surplus of 100 million. kr. That's an incredible amount of money. To spend $24 million. of it until the kindergartens they manage. Fredrikstad had 163 million. kr in profit, the planned norm will cost 5.8 million. kr, for this surplus alone, Fredrikstad may increase the crew standard for 28 years to come. It's about priorities. The Labour Party must take responsibility for its own municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1116	As a father of four I have had the pleasure of being with kids in kindergarten for many, many years, both in ideal kindergartens, in private kindergartens and in municipal kindergartens. Now, as grandpa of six, I have had the opportunity to be with and deliver and pick up grandchildren in kindergarten, and there's something grandparents seem very polite – to meet the very smallest, who with big eyes would like to show what they've done today, what they've been doing, and show the whole kindergarten. But what might make me the most proud is to see all the employees who work there, who meet us gently, pleasantly and in good words, despite the fact that they have both one and two and three kids in their arms, and who are going to give these children a good growth and a good content in the nursery, which is going to give them both comfort and care and not least activities that they can enjoy and develop through. That's why we're going to have a crew standard. The most important thing in a kindergarten is to create quality, and it's clearly important that we have adults who are there and who can take care of the kids in a good way, not just socially and all of this, but who can also give them good guidance linguistically, etc. It should be a good transition from kindergarten to school. We're all talking about early work, but early work isn't in high school, it's already in kindergarten, at the beginning of a long and demanding school. If we are to succeed in this, I think it is absolutely necessary that resources be included. All the feedback we have received from the municipalities in Norway is that it requires more resources to do this in a good way. They are concerned that this should be introduced both in the middle of a fiscal year, because they have enough people to apply for the posts, and whether they get educated people to these positions. Therefore, I think it is absolutely necessary to give the municipalities an extra understanding, so that this can be done in a good way. The working party is very concerned when we look at not least the small ideals and private kindergartens, not the big chains. I think the representative before me might have missed out a bit when she talked about Arbeiderparti-steered kindergartens, it might be Arbeiderparti-steered municipalities that have kindergartens. It is important that the small ideals that wear out today do not have to be laid down and possibly bought up by commercial operators. We want a diversity that offers a good deal, and then we have to bet on this diversity and give them a predictable framework, so that they can exist in the future. This diversity means that there are several well-trained employees. I have a son who is a kindergarten teacher. When he tells about his daily life in the kindergarten, it's about a quite demanding everyday life, from early morning to late in the day. Then the standard must be met not only for a few hours, but all the time while the kids are in kindergarten. In this way, we give them a good offer, which is also early action, which provides a safe framework for the very least in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1127	In Ås Municipality, where they are now budgeting with a marginal surplus, they have the issue of nursery standards for treatment this week. Initially, Ås had to finance eight–twelve new positions in municipal kindergartens, and it is a difficult promise to make. Now they are saved in the last round of lower applicants than expected, but it is a very temporary situation – it is only this year. The next year, the number of infantile herds is increasing again. As rapporteur Ola Nordal said when we talked about this matter – he would like to see the state actively involved in the financing. However, the State has notified the municipalities of decreasing, not increasing, municipal income in the future. Then I would remind him, who belongs in Akershus, the same state as the Council of State, that the standard of manning affects growth municipalities that still have a young population, large birth rates and relatively few fat 50-year-olds, extra hard. In Akershus we are so lucky to have growth. Around Oslo we take more of a younger wave than an older wave. The government uses averages for municipalities when they claim that the norm is fully funded. What's the real challenge is what my example was supposed to illustrate. A standard without sufficient funding weakens local self-government, and it can reinforce the diversity of service provision around the country when municipalities have to deprioritise other areas of service, for example: care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1134	It is good that we today have a crew standard in place. We've fought this for too long. For the Workers' Party, the aim has always been for employees to have more competent colleagues and for children to have more capable adults. Maybe some people today take a small party to celebrate the decision that we'll get a crew standard in place, but unfortunately they'll wake up tomorrow with a powerful head bank. For the decisions of the right-hand party, the next day will be a black-and-white one. There's going to be a lot of disappointed parents and a lot of disappointed employees who see that the things they've been fighting for, the stories they've told, have not led the government parties to listen. They will see that the decisions taken today, unfortunately, do not change much. Listening to a debate that goes into this room now, both the Right Party and the Advance Party really do have a misalignment – they misjudge the reality: they haven't answered what they will do with staffing throughout the opening hours, what they will do with temporary employment and the possible use of dispensations, and what they will do to meet increasing part-time. This means a real postponement of the norm for one year, and the reality is that it comes without funding. But at least at home in Rogaland, some of this fog talk is revealed. In Stavanger Children's Gardens today's decision will not change anything, and the group leader of the Rogaland Right, Janne Johnsen, has written a pretty good reading in Stavanger Evening Leaf today, where she writes that a crew standard without funding is a scandal, that today's decision will not solve the challenges in the kindergarten, and that this kind of detail management weakens the local space of action. She points out that in Rogaland there is a total of 79 million missing. kr for the financing of this, and the Right-Representative is disappointed with its own government, acting as if the norm was fully funded. I think Janne Johnsen has a very good description of the reality of this case. And I have to challenge the right parties now at the end of this debate to give some answers to what it means with these temporary calculations, this increased flexibility and not least where it's going to be cut. It deserves all the employees and parents who are now to try to look at and understand how this Decision is to be implemented today. The representative Melby from the Left said there's room for priority in the local economy. Yeah, but where's that gonna be cut? I challenge the Left to answer: Who will get less? The representatives of the Right and the Advance Party are hiding behind empty rhetoric, but if the norm is not funded, they will not answer: who is to get less, the representative of the Progress Party? Are those the older ones? Much could have been solved today if the right parties had supported our ten good suggestions. They don't. They close their ears, and they hide in the fog.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1153	Some of the debate here today has focused on the uncertainty regarding the financing plan and the coverage of additional costs related to the implementation of the norm. We've chosen a little bit of different solutions. The centre party wants a postponement, just to get a complete overview of what this costs, before a norm is introduced. So I have noticed during the debate that the Council of State is partly choosing to go into a polemics with the Workers' Party instead of going into the issues of full funding and discussing the realities of that issue. I also notice that the representative Tybring-Gjedde here says that the municipalities must be responsible for the implementation of the norm. Here, too, the government must be conscious of its responsibility to get an overview of both how to fully finance the norm and how to implement it. This is why the Central Party wishes to vote in a subsidiary way for the proposals of the Christian People's Party, so that, in the context of the 2019 State Budget, a plan for the implementation of the Staff Code, which includes a coverage of the additional costs, provides an overview of the distribution between municipalities and also between municipal and private kindergartens. I ask that the voting be put up in such a way that it is possible for us to vote subsidiaryly for the proposals of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1164	The representative Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde says she's been listening. More than 100 municipalities will have to increase staffing. The representative Tybring-Gjedde has listened, but I would argue that the government parties have not done enough to facilitate a good implementation in the kindergarten sector. And I would argue that it is critical that the government is not willing to finance that kind of reform costs. One has received clear signals from the KS and many municipalities about the lack of funding, and that when the norm is introduced in the middle of a fiscal year, there is no way to plan the municipal budgets in a good way. This will make implementation very demanding. Then the representative Tybring-Gjedde also says that the government's funding is the same as the former Minister of Knowledge Kristin Halvorsen had. In Kristin Halvorsen's last budget, she started an escalating plan, an escalating plan SV has put into its alternative budgets, a escalating plan that the government of Solberg stopped. Finally, Åshild Bruun-Gundersen said in his post that our arrangement would cost 14 billion kroner. kr. Then I don't think she has listened very well to my post. I want to repeat what is our arrangement: Minimum 50 pst. employees shall be nursery teachers, the ratio between children and employees shall not be counted as a percentage, additional annual work shall be required for a long period of opening and, last but not least, temporary workers shall be filled in in in the event of absence. Our actions, which in total will cost 1 billion. kr, is part of our alternative budget, and we have already included a stepping-up plan in our alternative budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1173	When I take the floor again, it is because it has burst violently here and come up with a good deal of claims that cannot be contradicted. For example, in the line chord exchange, it has been suggested that I should say to the VG that the law should not actually come into force until 1 August 2019. Well, it's both wrong media and completely wrong. It was in the NRK that I indicated that when the transitional regime is over, until 1 August 2019, it will only be available for exemptions. And as I've pointed out in my main post, it's going to be a narrow access because there's something about our high ambitions for the kindergarten sector. It is obviously a little difficult to bring with it for the opposition, but it is such that we have had a high pressure on this matter. That's why we're going in order for the law to come into force now on 1 August 2018. At the same time, we have met the necessary flexibility in recruiting staff and moving to work in large organisations such as municipalities and private kindergartens. In this way, I think the approach that some here have in this matter is somewhat amazing. It seems like you're closing your eyes because there's a real world out there, where people have jobs, you're going to have to move, and you're going to have to find new tasks to do if you're going to stick this big crew that's going to fit in to fill both the standard of education and staffing within the deadlines and ambitions that we're going to adopt in this room. I would also like to point out that, although there is always more money in every sector – nobody says no to increased appropriations – it is a fact that the local economy is liberal under the budgets of the citizens. In the case of the municipality of Bergen, which has, for example, been the highest on the track when it comes to pointing out the economic weaknesses of this kindergarten law we're introducing, it's interesting to hear the council say that there are 160 million missing. kr. So I know that the municipality of Bergen in 2016 had a profit of 1,097 million. kr – over 1 billion. kr, nearly SEK 1.1 billion. kr. And then others have pointed out, this might be one-time money? Well, they went in 2017 – the year after – with more money in profit. Then they had $1135 million. kr in profit. Two years in a row, it's over 1 billion. NOK in profit, and then they come to Stortinget and say they lack 160 million. kr to introduce a requirement of 73 pst. of kindergartens already meet today. It's a fact. So it is nevertheless desirable, of course, to follow this process closely. That is why we have asked for a report in the spring of 2019 and in the spring of 2020, because we are also concerned that this is a standard to be introduced in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1182	The representative Åshild Bruun-Gundersen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1187	So the working party in this room asks what the government wants to do with the dispensation and part-time and manning all day. Does the Labour Party still not understand that this is a municipal responsibility? It is the responsibility of municipalities to operate a kindergarten offer and handle the dispensation and part-time and staffing properly throughout the day. So the working party controls 50 pst. of the non-performing municipalities. It's not the government's responsibility. Now we're introducing a national minimum standard. There is no need to cut anywhere, because Kommune-Norway has record profits. I want to explicitly draw out Bergen with $1140 million. kr in profit this year, and then they get a staff standard that requires them to spend 83 million. kr. I cannot understand that you will give Bergen more money. Will the Workers' Party give municipalities more money as a reward for not giving priority to kindergarten? Three-quarters of Kommune-Norge have already achieved the goal, now the rest of the municipalities must give priority to the enormous surplus and ensure better kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1192	I record that the government parties are once again more concerned with talking about the Workers' Party than defending their own solutions – or lack of solutions. I would first like to say that I think it is very good that the government parties and the Christian People's Party say something about temporary employment in the setting. The working party will go further – but that's good. It is also good to note that you will consider the financing system for private kindergartens. I've brought that up with the Council of State before. He didn't think it was necessary. So the debate has led to movement. It is also nice that the government parties here in the Chamber say that they see the challenges, that they write something in notes about the challenges they see, whether in terms of funding systems, small, ideal kindergartens or long opening hours. But it doesn't keep saying it or writing about it, you have to help solve it. I believe that in this case we have a number of vague or non-binding decisions from the government parties. It is vigilant in the case of the so-called transitional regime, which in reality quickly becomes a paper standard, for one year, rather than contributing to the financing of the scheme, and totally, totally non-committal when the government parties in the hall here say they are in favour of an evaluation. It would have been nice if the government parties were for an evaluation. After all, a standard will affect almost 6,000 kindergartens, over 280 000 kindergartens, 75 000 year-olds, 94 500 employees and all Norwegian municipalities. With the uncertainty that exists, we should make sure that we have knowledge of reality out there in kindergarten. SV, the Centre Party and the Workers' Party want an evaluation of the norm within two years, which can help municipalities and private owners implement the norm correctly, and provide us with knowledge to decide what kind of changes should be made to ensure that the norm becomes a good tool. Government parties and Christian People's Party say no to that. Their alternative is that the government should come back to the Storting with information on what is happening with educational and adult density in kindergartens. That is the proposal. I don't understand what the government parties want to achieve with that. It is totally meaningless and a proposal for a non-content decision, for these are already available figures and statistics that are reported to the BASIL reporting system. The figures are available online. And with respect to reporting: The size is not so small that we have to ask the government to refer from a website. I can do that job for the government parties. After the debate, I can send an e-mail to all deposit representatives with the following link: basil.udir.no – or to the SSB, where the figures are also referred to. We don't need a link to a website. What we need is a proper evaluation, that the Storting is informed about the norm, how it spreads widely in municipalities and kindergartens, and that you take care to involve the sector. Yes, it may be difficult to see the government's high ambitions for kindergartens. When an overall industry, researchers, Education Association, Trade Union, Parental Committee, School Leaders Association, Private Barnehagers Landsförbund, PBL, and thousands of individuals are concerned, the government should go on its own and perhaps think about whether their own lack of solutions is the challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1211	I think it's almost on the verge of arrogance when I hear the representatives from the Right and the Progress Party talking about a community economy. Their articles may well show that they have not listened to either the parents or the employees regarding the concerns that have arisen, when one allows to use figures from 2017 as one in this room knows was one-off cases, and in addition, behind the reality described in the revised budget of its own government, is that the expectations of municipal incomes are that they should go down. I am pleased that the Council of State will take the floor afterwards. He should probably clarify whether this is the way it was driven by the fact that there is a surplus in the municipalities means that this government goes beyond the requirement that municipalities should go with profits, which I understand the government – as long as at least – has stood behind. But one might go away from that. I also want to challenge the Council of State to respond to some of the challenges that party colleague Janne Johnsen, whom I think he knows well, also gives him, when she says this that his colleagues will not answer, that a standard of manpower without funding is and becomes a scandal. It is only to note that at least the representatives in this room close their ears and – as I said – are hiding in the fog. The debate is not over yet. There is still time to give some answers on how to understand this with flexibility, what this temporaryity is, and not least on whether a person is able to rectify the financing. Part of the solution would have been to vote for the ten good proposals of the Workers' Party. It would at least have been part of it and solved a part.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1221	You can understand that the Workers' Party needs to show up as an opposition party. But when the reality is that we are proposing – and now being implemented – the same thing as the Workers' Party was for when they were in government in 2012 and 2013, this rhetoric becomes a little meaningful. You're talking about paper norms without content, arrogance, hiding in the fog -- nobody's hiding here. We are clear that the standard of manning is to be implemented. I am pleased that we are now getting an impact on important reforms that will improve the quality of kindergartens. And we're going on. It is the blue-green government that, in cooperation with the Christian People's Party, has implemented a pedagogical norm – in other words, more qualified in kindergartens. It's the blue-green government that, in collaboration with the Christian People's Party, implements a minimum crew standard that you didn't have before. And it's the blue-green government that, in cooperation with the Christian People's Party, is betting on continuing education also for employees in kindergartens, so that there are more qualified and safe people around our children. We do it because we think it's important. It is important that children get more safe adults around them. I have a lot of understanding that someone says it's not good enough, that they want to feel even better. But it is not that when we implement a pedagogical norm and a standard of manning, it is becoming irresponsible or inferior to quality. On the contrary, there will be more adults, more safe adults. And we're going on. We have high ambitions for the children and for the kindergartens. We're focusing on early work in kindergarten and school, and we're doing it because we think it's important.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1230	The councils are, as he has often been before, occupied by the Workers' Party. We think that's fine. We're flattered by attention. He says that the Workers' Party is busy showing up as an opposition party. Yeah, that's right. The Council of State referred to the financing system. I've read what the section the Council of State referred to in the reply, and I can take the short version of it. That is, the Minister of Knowledge said to the Evening Post in 2013, when the notification was submitted, that the standard of manning should be introduced by 2020, that is, once before that, and then the municipalities should get what it costs. That's the short version. When the council also says that the stories of the nursery uprising hit him, I'm very happy about that. It's fine, but I wish they hit the government parties a little better. We in the Workers' Party have prioritised competence in kindergarten, quality and places as well as a lower kindergarten price over several budgets. When the government now transfers the bill to the municipalities and pushes the responsibility on, I think it is very unfortunate. The government parties will also allow us not to be very impressed with what is happening right now. The Barnehagellift, introduced by the Stoltenberg II government, is one of the most important welfare reforms in modern times. It introduced the right to a kindergarten with a maximum price for parental pay and a number of other bets and provided two child care quality reports. What happened in the eight years? What happened was that the kindergartens got a real increase in the appropriations of 15.5 billion. kr – at the top of SEK 1.9 billion. kr of the year, a real will to bet. Therefore, the government parties are excused that we allow ourselves not to be very impressed with the lack of investment we see now.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1241	I understand that the message from the blue-blue government after this is that it is the blue-blue government that is implementing, as the Council of State said. But a non-financing implementation is not an implementation. It's stopping halfway over the course. That's never breaking the goal line. That is why the entire committee, all parties in that room, wants to implement the standard of personnel, but some of us also want it to be fully financed. That is where the distinction goes, and that is where the debate stands today. Then my claim is that if the blue-blues are to be implemented without funding, there is no implementation. That is why I was also very surprised when I heard the representative of the Progress Party, who said that as long as the municipalities can show that they are going in profit, they should not get any funds from the State to carry out the reforms imposed on them. I really have to say that is a new and very borderline principle in Norwegian administration. This must mean that it is only when the municipalities fail that they can expect the State to contribute to the financing of reforms that the State has ordered the municipalities to implement. Actually, we can't have it that way. I don't know what it is that makes the Progress Party come into such thoughts. It is possible that it is Sylvi Listhaug's journey in Finnmark, where she began by accusing the rapporteurs of not doing his job, which makes it the kind of strategy and ran the Progress Party put up for the future. However, there is a totally misguided idea of how the relationship between state and municipality as a level of government and performs on the welfare side of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1248	The representative Kent Gudmundsen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1253	It's a little eye-catching to hear some red-green representatives interpret the blue-green government and Christian People's Party's intention in this matter, especially when it comes to my contribution to funding. I have just pointed out the simple fact that very many today meet these requirements, and there are a good many municipalities that are going with profits. When a national calculation has been made to show that this is a reform that is funded in the same way as before, I believe to have evidence for that context. Then it becomes extra strange to hear e.g. Asphjell is standing here on the pulpit and talking about the norm being met throughout the opening hours, costing 14 billion. NOK, I have not heard Henriksen mention that they are adding 14 billion. kr in its revised budget. Or when Henriksen talks about all the measures they've done and the whole sector, you cut 300 million. kr to non-municipal kindergartens in their state budget for 2018. That's the fact of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1258	I wanted to take the word to say a few things. I have spoken to the representative Asphjell who took a lot of Møller's tran and was very eager on behalf of the kindergartens, but the Labour Party has not agreed to the proposal that the representative Kent Gudmundsen referred to, but we want to have solutions that ensure better staffing in kindergartens with longer opening hours, and that is what we have proposed here in the Chamber today. Then I have a comment on what's going on about funding. Government parties must themselves take responsibility for introducing a scheme as one of four small private kindergartens, in a February survey, so that fear will lead to closure or sale to major commercial chains. When we hear the statements about local government finances and profits in the municipalities, it is a bit alarming that the government parties believe the municipalities should solve the challenges in the way they now say. The municipalities received higher disposable income, among others. in 2017, due to higher tax revenues, and it is not expected to continue. On the contrary, there are small expectations that the local economy will be just as good this year, and in the years ahead. No responsible municipality will use one-off income for permanent operating costs; it is irresponsible. What would be responsible and responsible is to provide better funding for this standard, which actually results. It is clearly a challenge for municipalities when the norm is both presented and to be introduced in the middle of a budgetary year, and a challenge for the private kindergartens that receive funding for two years in deficit. All these objections and recordings were included in the consultation round. The government then chose not to take that into account, and now I fear that we will have several such paper decisions, paper norms and paper tigers that do not help with the situation. Finally, I would like to say that with regard to the Workers' Party's position on exemptions, we believe that there should be no derogation in kindergartens one day longer than necessary. Once the standard has been introduced, access to the exemption shall be removed, preferably before it is introduced. After hearing the debate, I think this may be something we need to consider earlier than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1273	First a few words about municipal economy. I believe there is reason to rejoice that we have had a blue-green government that, in cooperation with the Christian People's Party, has now secured the municipalities for five years good and predictable economy, which shows that the municipalities have record profits, and that there have never been so few municipalities on the ROBEK list, under economic administration. These are not disposable income in 2017. It has been a reality over the five years we have been in government power, that it has been good development in the economy. The answer that has come from the Progress Party here is more to show that when Labour Party rapporteurs say they have such tight economic conditions, the reality is that it has been a liberal economy, and that there is room for prioritising both kindergarten and other issues. It is then repeated that the reform is not funded. Let me just say that we use exactly the same principles as the Workers' Party did when they were sitting with government power. The working party should think a little about which course you are choosing. It may be that the Workers' Party, sometime in the future, will come back to government. Using entirely different principles for financing tasks for the local government sector could have some major consequences, including for the future. When the Workers' Party, the Centre's Party and SV sat in the government offices, they applied for the same recruitment standard with the same funding as the blue-green government has now established. He is funding reforms. Then we would like to discuss whether it should be lubricated during a transitional period and whether there should be increased flexibility. I am sure you will find good solutions in the discussions between the parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1282	I think it is an interesting debate to follow, and the main points have definitely emerged. But I feel like taking the word to express some thoughts that may also be useful to involve myself in the work of the Committee and not least in the work of the Council of State. First to finance: it is hugely extreme whether we use the best or worst example from the municipal sector as the basis for the administration and for what economic framework the municipalities have to finance the introduction of manning standards. There is no doubt that there are many municipalities that have the opportunity to do a lot in the kindergarten sector and to redispatch, not least. There is no doubt that many are already meeting this requirement on the way. But putting all of them to the bottom and cutting all over one comb – that's exactly what much of the Central Party criticism applies. We also have to bear in mind that there are some municipalities that are not well-equipped or have such good conditions to implement the standard of personnel in kindergartens, and then it falls on stone ground that the standard of manning is introduced and implemented. It will not – not in all kindergartens, not in all municipalities, and it will not apply to all children. The variety of kindergartens also honoured the Council of State in its contribution, and I'm very pleased, but then again the question is how do we ensure that the diversity of kindergartens continues to exist. Then it is precisely the economic assumptions that are absolutely crucial. It is, as the Council of State also drew out in the exchange of lines, some of the larger chains that have bigger economic muscles, larger space of action than the smaller, small and perhaps also ideal actors have. These are the very ones we have to take care of in our treatment and in our administration, because they are the ones who have helped to ensure that we have full child care coverage in our long-term country. I think it is tremendously overwhelming to hear the representatives of the Right Party and the Progressive Party praise the Kommune-Norge and the economic space they have, especially in the light of the municipal reform and everything going on in the municipal sector. But that's what we're taking into further debate and we're happy about it. Then we really hope that the standard of manning is as good as it might sound from here.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1295	The representative, Torstein Tvedt Solberg, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1300	I just had to comment on Sanner. Of course, the Labour Party also enjoys positive results for the municipalities, but I notice that this is part of the strategy of this government – a desire to take credit for everything that goes well in the municipalities, but is hiding in this so-called fog with what goes bad. But I really think it's a little surprising that the only answer the government parties can give to the challenge that has come from the municipalities, employees and parents on the poor funding is a little talk of profits in the municipalities. So one pushes the kids in front of it. I would like to call the representative Bruun-Gundersen of the Progress Party to call his colleagues in Bergen, because in Bergen the Progress Party has also expressed its support for a hearing where full funding of the norm is required. As the debate approaches the end, I just have to note that there have been no answers to the questions we have asked regarding the meaning of ‘a certain flexibility’ in the transitional rules and what these temporary methods of calculation will mean.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1316	I want to end the debate by commenting on some statements that have emerged in the last few minutes. The representative, Arnstad, is concerned that the municipalities are not going to have to finance new state bets and changes in the law, but that's exactly what they're doing. They are funded in line with the State Counsellor on compensation to municipalities for task and regulatory changes – the same type of compensation model as the Centre Party has used in all other legislative changes in the kindergarten sector. And so did the red-green government when they proposed a crew standard. It is precisely because we are listening to the various actors in the nursery sector that we are now presenting this standard, and I have to say that it is quite alarming that the centre party in this setting is proposing to postpone the introduction of the standard for staffing for another year. The feedback from all the actors we've talked to – absolutely everyone, including the nursery uprising, including the different organisations – is that we finally get a standard of personnel in place, and that's the most important thing. So we're going to follow closely the way it's introduced, and we're going to make adjustments along the way, but the most important thing is that it gets in place and doesn't get exposed another year. The representative Henriksen shows concern for the smaller private kindergartens, but that's exactly why the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party are now asking the government to look at models that will reduce the backlog of private kindergartens. These are detailed grant calculations, which we do not participate in the Storting in the process, but which the government of course has the opportunity to explore further to ensure the smaller private kindergartens and diversity of the nursery sector. But that's not just what we're doing. Now, when we propose to tighten up the demand for local management, when we now propose independent supervision, and when we now propose to tighten up temporary care, it is precisely to ensure that private kindergartens also receive a grant basis that represents the actual expenditure of that municipality. And it's just about ensuring that children – whether private or municipal – get a good offer and experience having safe professionals around them. All these measures that we are proposing, and for which we now have a majority in this Chamber, are about increasing the quality of the nursery sector. It is a civil government that now introduces a staffing standard, it is a civil government that has come up with educational standards, and it is a civil government that has doubled the efforts for continuing education in the kindergarten sector. It's a proud legacy, it's good action, and it's an incredibly important continuation of the effort that the government and the Christian People's Party started with in the last period.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1331	Only two points on the verge of the debate: Tvdt Solberg wonders what lies at the point of ‘a certain flexibility’. It's in the setting. It states that the standard of manning is to be implemented from 1 August 2018, but it says that ‘child care owners have until 1 August 2019 to meet the minimum crew requirement’. This implies a flexible and smooth transition to the new rules – in addition to what was the original objective. This includes, inter alia: justified by the fact that many have feared that there would be a large number of waivers, which would involve a great deal of municipal proceedings, and therefore made it easier and more flexible. So finally, Tvedt Solberg also claims in terms of funding, that only reference is made to good municipal economy. No, we refer to thorough investigation – from two governments. Twice the economic-administrative consequences have been investigated – first by the government of Stoltenberg, where the Senterpartiet, Arbeiderpartiet and SV sat, and found that the municipal costs had been met. And we've done the exact same calculations. In other words, it's determined by two governments – one red-green and one blue-green – and we came to the same result.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1340	The representative, Mrs Arnstad, has spoken twice before in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1345	The representative, Tybring-Gjedde, said that all the actors they have been in contact with said that someone would now have a standard of personnel. Yeah, that's right. That's the first sentence of what they're saying. The second sentence of what they're saying is that they're concerned about funding. They are concerned, especially about the small, private and ideals, and they also want a fully funded standard of staffing – if not, it will go beyond the kindergarten offer. I think that once the Right has heard the actors, they've heard the first sentence, but maybe not the second sentence, but it's also important to bring it with them. So attack the representative Tybring-Gendered the Center Party to postpone the reform. Yes, we would postpone it one year. The reason for this is that we – wise of harm – would like to see the framework for funding provided by the government in the budget for 2019, before one implements the norm itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1352	When you go up and make the last post, you usually tend to say, I don't want to extend the debate. I don't know if that would be honest with me. I am very pleased that there is now agreement in the committee on local management requirements, and that all parties are positive for supervision. The Labour Party has eleven proposals in the case, for which we had hoped to have a majority, among others. in the case of opening hours, part-time and, in particular, evaluation of the norm. What's real is that it's government parties' proposals that are going to have a majority today. Therefore, I think it would have been good if you could explain and clear up some of the uncertainties. The Council of State said that it is explained in the setting what a certain flexibility in the transitional rules means. It's not. Will it, for example? are penalties applicable to kindergartens as of August 2018 if they do not comply with the norm, or will it be the way the Council of State Sanner has now said that it will have to comply with the norm by 2019? The question is: Is it from August 2018, or is it from August 2019? It's eight weeks until August 2018, and it's good for all kindergarten owners to know what they're going to do. It is contrary to what the representatives of the Right said, not all the proposals in this matter are about raising the quality. The fact that the Storting should ask the government to transmit information from the BASIL website is hardly about increasing quality, but it is clear that it is important that large-scale representatives have an overview of the situation. In line with what Arnstad said about the wiseness of damage waiting and not taking too good fish, we believe that this matter has been affected by a poor investigation, for example. When you left 55 000 children in the proposition. It was calculated how many municipalities had a crew for more than 6.3 children per adult. The council said that this, i.e. funding and meeting the norm, will be a limited problem as there were only 33 municipalities on December 2016 that had more than 6.3 children per adult in their kindergartens. It makes no sense to examine how many municipalities have more than 6.3 children per adult, when the norm is to be 1 adult per 6 children – a norm of 6. The result showed that there were 106 municipalities in 2017 that had more than 6 children per employee. But then large municipalities like Trondheim, Bergen, Bodø, Tønsberg and Sandefjord had been excluded, together with over 55,000 children and over 1,300 kindergartens, many of them private, where the government had not provided any funding for the kindergartens, especially the private ones, in municipalities that did not meet the norm. We think that is just one example of why it is important for us to propose more improvements here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1367	I really didn't intend to take the floor in this case, because I think things have been said quite many times. But I am a little surprised when the representative after the representative goes up and claims something that has been clarified and answered several times. The last time was Henriksen, who still doesn't seem to have got what this transitional arrangement means, and says that it's unclear whether there will be criminal reactions if a kindergarten doesn't meet the requirements. Well, I can read the text: ‘The government is asked to lay down transitional rules for the standard of navigation in the kindergarten in order to enable kindergarten owners to comply with the minimum crew requirement until 1 August 2019.’ There's a lot of fear -- a lot of fear -- of what might happen. You don't need to speculate about things. I believe that I agree to do what many here describe as a day of joy, also about a very sad day. But there are actually a lot of politicians in this room who are involved in doing it. This is a day of joy. We're introducing a crew standard. It will strengthen the kindergarten sector. We've introduced a pedagogical norm. We've given over 400 million. to continue training in the kindergarten sector in order to improve quality. We can have this as a day of joy. There's been a lot of talk about funding. The last time, state councillor Jan Tore Sanner was up again and said that this is the way we finance the municipal economy. And as the representative Bruun-Gundersen said, we are so lucky now that we are doing well in the local economy. The municipalities have room to grow. I fully understand those who would want us to go even further in the demand for the number of adults per child etc. But there are actually some limits to what we have the opportunity to do in the economic space we have, and then I actually think we should be satisfied that we're getting a norm right now. And then this is something that we focus on. We want to keep working on it, but then you don't have to do this which is a joyous day, about a somewhat sad day by spreading worries or dissatisfaction. Then I agree with Mr Henriksen's representative; I think it is perfectly right that we also hear about the good measures that the red-green government has taken. It's not like it's the one side or the other in this room that's occupied by our kindergartens and that our children should have the best possible. I think it's all right to be reminded of what the red-green government did, but then I actually think the opposition here today could also take on the fact that this is a good measure and could be part of and rejoice without spreading a lot of fear and concerns that are not real.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1385	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1401	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that – within the allocated speaking time – up to six rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1410	I would like to start by thanking the Committee for its constructive and good cooperation in this matter. We have come up with proposals for decisions that I think we are all well pleased with. It's important, and that's something we want, namely to get more information about how the youngest children are doing in school today. A comprehensive study from Hedmark suggests that the youngest students are well at school and have a good relationship with their teacher. But we know that there are differences within schools, between schools and between municipalities. This is also true of the pedagogical practices of the youngest children. We also know that there's a difference in learning outcomes between boys and girls. For this reason, the government has now reduced the Stoltenberg Committee, which should consider possible reasons and measures. I hope that the work we are now doing will give us even more information about how the youngest children are doing in school, and what measures we should take. For the right, it is initially not important whether it is “Barnehage” or “Skole” on the entrance gate. We'll look forward to it. It is vital that six - year - olds meet a school that takes account of their strengths and needs. Six-year-olds learn in a completely different way than teenagers. They need varied and practical forms of learning. For us, it is most important to bet on competent teachers and leaders and good professional communities who together know how children develop and how to adapt their teaching. It is not for politicians to decide how many minutes teachers should spend on one pedagogical method. The right and the government focus on teachers' professional, educational and ethical skills, because we know that that's what's crucial. We're now training more early specialists in school, who are going to work with the youngest children. Today, we are going to adopt a co-operation obligation between kindergarten and school, so that they work together to create good transitions, which are especially important for the most vulnerable children. In the new five-year master's course, teachers have practice for five days in kindergarten. We are in the process of innovation, including: to ensure that teachers have a greater room for action to vary teaching methods and to have a more practical approach. We've hired many more teachers from the 1st to the 4th. Steps, and the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party are now united in the implementation of a teacher's norm. It's about building a team around the youngest students. I just want to comment on some claims and arguments that have been raised in the debate. One is that although it is true that the SSB found that previous schooling itself did not lead to the student learning more, it is important to stress that they started with Reform 97, a reform that made it mandatory for six-year-olds to start in a pre-school-like programme. In the evaluation they write: ‘One possible reason for the lack of positive effects of previous school start-ups may be that the programme was not intensive and structured.’ Lack of systematic and pedagogical efforts at reading, writing and billing resulted in the fact that for many pupils, clear children fell from early school and that the school reproduced social differences. It was therefore important and correct that the Bondevik government promoted the Knowledge promise and introduced basic skills. Now we see results that School-Norway should be very proud of, and that many have worked for. Several students complete secondary school. The results of the PIRLS reading survey show that Norwegian 5th graders read much better than before, especially children with a minority background. It is important to stress that there is no contrast between a varied and practical everyday life for the younger children and learning to read, write and calculate, focusing on learning. There is no contradiction between having intensive follow-up of the children who are struggling with the basic skills and developing the whole human being. The school should both form and educate. Unfortunately, it is not possible to have a research evaluation of Reform 97 in itself, because it has been replaced by other measures, including the Knowledge promise, but these proposals were good initiatives. The right is happy that we are now going to get even more information about the youngest children in school, because we want to give priority to early work. But then we have to have a school that adapts to the student, and not students that have to adapt to the school.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1436	My strongest memory of the six-year reform, or Reform 97, was that I didn't go to the sixth grade. Then I was very happy, because I had heard that in the sixth grade we were going to take the BCG syringe, and I was very sorry about that. Now it's 20 years ago, and it's high time for an evaluation, but also for some adjustments. The Labour Party believes that Norwegian school has become too theoretical, silent and academic, especially for the smallest children. I think the Progress Party-Right-Registration has done too little to promote more practical and varied learning for the students. The working party has repeatedly called for more practical learning in school in this room. The school should see everyone and give all the students mastery. Then you also have to help children learn differently. Students must also be able to acquire knowledge through practical tasks, activities and participation, not just theoretically solving tasks. On the contrary, there is no difference between play and learning; on the contrary, it implies using the learning methods shown by the research provides the best learning and motivation for the students. There is an enormous amount of learning through both play, dance, song and other activities. In the fall reported, for example, The Guardian from a kindergarten in Bradford, United Kingdom, which through a focused effort on song, drama and art in all subjects has gone from national bottom position to top position in reading, writing and billing results. Over six hours of music in a week per student, students have also improved in math, reading and writing. I would like to thank the rapporteur and all the parties for the fact that today there is an overall committee that is asking for an evaluation. The Labour Party is particularly pleased that we have had an impact that this work will have consequences for the renewal of the trade union, the ongoing work. It is good and shows that Stortinget says that we do not want to wait, but that through the decisions we are making today, we make the connection to the work that is going on clear. What I still think is a little uncertain, is the will from the right to make adjustments after the evaluation, because when playing in school is discussed, there is no doubt a lot of scepticism from the right. I do not ask them to advance the results of the evaluation itself, but I would challenge both the Council of State and the right parties to clarify whether one today also commits to following up the results, and whether one is prepared to make the necessary changes. The case rapporteur had a fine, historical review of the ice-cream list government has, as we are constantly hearing, but does she also have some ambitions for the future? Can one expect, now that one says yes to an evaluation, that one also undertakes to follow up those results? When we ask the teachers why you have ended up here, they point out that the framework conditions in school – such as time, resources, demands, measurements and expectations – lead many to feel that they do not have the opportunity to use more play and practical learning in school. I think this is worth listening to, because it is the framework conditions of the government, for which the government is responsible, that put the curtain behind this. Therefore, these signals should be taken seriously. For the Workers' Party, it is therefore important that this evaluation should have consequences afterwards and not be put in a dark drawer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1455	The party needs to know that today there is an opportunity to start school, but very few Norwegian students are taking advantage of this opportunity. The progress party wants to lift it up. We believe that early school start-ups, as we have seen after Reform 97, have not given any learning outcomes, but it has been mostly about the maturity of the children who start school. It is quite obvious that the maturity of the children who start school is crucial for the children’s learning outcomes throughout the school cycle. We see today that Norwegian schools have great gender differences, especially between the girls who were born early in the year and the boys who were born late in the year, who start school in the same class at the age of six. This difference is almost not reduced throughout school, and it may suggest that more people should take advantage of the opportunity to postpone school leaving, and that more people should take advantage of the opportunity to accelerate school leaving. This is a practice that is more common in other countries. In Denmark you can see that about 10 pst. of the annual coals choose to move at the time of school start, and they have also benefited more from it. Gender differences in schools are seen to be smaller in Denmark than in Norway. This is something the government is going to look at further through the expert committee that is now to gather knowledge on why gender differences occur in school and propose measures to counter them. The expert committee's setting will be presented on 1 February 2019. Together with the matter we are dealing with now, which is about acquiring knowledge, we believe that this will be a good basis for further discussion on how to reduce gender differences in school, how to ensure a smoother transition between kindergarten and school, and how to ensure that more people succeed in Norwegian school. To the representative Torstein Tvedt Solberg from the Workers' Party, who wants to talk about practical teaching: the Advance Party is also concerned about it. We believe that there should be more level-sharing in Norwegian schools, according to both the level of knowledge and the learning methods used. It is quite obvious that more children would have benefited from more practical teaching. All these measures we want to get back to. But first of all, I am pleased that there is a broad majority of people who are saying that we are now going to have more knowledge on reform 97 and the six-year reform, and that next year we will be able to discuss what measures we are going to take to improve school life for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1468	As one of the proposers, it is with great pleasure that the Central Party today finds that there is an overall committee behind the vote. We are very pleased that a unanimous committee endorses the proposals that the Central Party and then the Christian People's Party (Christian People's Party) have put forward in their respective representative proposals. I would like to thank the rapporteur and the rest of the Committee for their constructive work on the matter. In August 1997, the school opened the doors for six - year - olds for the first time. The process until the decision on lowered school age did not take place without debate. Resistance and scepticism were great, not only in the political environment, but also in different trade unions. As we all know, the result was a compromise. The six-year reform was to be launched with ballast from the best in preschool education and from school. The first year of school would give room for play and time outside the school room, and there would be a slippery and soft transition to the school day waiting for the second stage. But the further story is also known. With the knowledge gap and the PISA shock, many of the good intentions were forgotten and had to give way to the reading training and the introduction of learning goals for the very youngest students as well. In a way, the six-year reform, as it was adopted in its time, never got the chance to get stuck properly. Instead, six - year - olds were pushed into a school day that many had not matured for. It is not difficult to understand that it is challenging for a teacher responsible for more than 20 first-class and with management expectations that the class will meet learning objectives and score well on second-stage screening tests. There is also something of the core, I think, in the debate that is likely to move forward in time, namely the progressive target management that has been devastating for learning in general and for the younger students in particular. This is because the target management regime requires practices that are not in line with the professional principles of young children’s learning and development. In the work on this matter, we have heard many stories, and we have listened to experiences from teachers, parents, researchers and other professionals. It's made a big impression. We've heard of first-class people who are horrifying themselves for weekly trials on Fridays because they never feel mastery. We've listened to parents telling about students who week after week have to evaluate their sails with degrees of smiley and sour face. We've met superiors and professors who are alerting the growth of the number of students who are subject to mental stress as a result of everyday school life. A common denominator in all this is that the expectations and performance requirements of the sum of measurements and reports partially override the teacher’s professional judgements and school day arrangements. One cannot force learning outcomes by trying to supply the physiological development of young people to fit into the school framework. It knows smart and experienced teachers, it also knows kindergarten teachers, and many of the parents who doubt that their kids are struggling and experiencing defeat from the beginning of school. Norway's score on international tests is not to be a scale for Norwegian school. It is not a measure of success if school A scores higher in screening tests than school B in neighboring areas. If we continue to let such parameters override education in Norwegian schools, we will make students a big wrong, and especially students at the lowest levels. Instead, we have to show the six-year-olds respect and take seriously what are natural variations in their development and in a classroom life. As politicians, we are representatives who must take care of the interests of all groups of the population. In particular, it is important to meet the needs of those who are not able to meet their needs, such as small six-year-olds, who have been awarded the conditions of adults. Therefore, the matter we are dealing with today is not a small matter either. On the contrary, this is a matter of great importance for giving everyone a good start to school. Because it's not like the kids have to be prepared for school, it has to be the schools that are ready to accept the kids. We can probably disagree on the description and on the everyday life of school, and I think we are going to see that through the debate, but the Central Party is very pleased that we are now getting an impact on an external evaluation of the admission of six-year-olds to school. We believe it is high time, and it should also provide the basis for a broad debate on how to give future six-year-olds a better school.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1487	Our goal is a school for the whole child – a more practical and varied school day, where the kids come to school with their whole life, where they can play, thrive and make friends. It is a school that will not only prepare for further education and working life but also take on the very self-esteem of childhood here and now. What's so good is that research shows that you're doing this, teaching the kid more. The premise that such a child perspective is in contrast to teaching all children to read, write and calculate, is not accepted by SV. The exaggerated belief on the right that goals, pugging, ranking and competition are the main driving forces for knowledge and quality is therefore in stark contrast to the rebellion that is growing among students, parents and teachers, and it is confirmed by researchers. It is not without reason that the red-green government put down the public Ludvigsen committee, which was to make recommendations about the school of the future. This was done on the basis of the evaluation of the Knowledge Lift, which just shows a school that has become too monotonous and theoretical. It is obvious, not least in the light of the researchers who point out that the six-year reform has not led to better learning outcomes, that time is overdue for school changes. The Storting has decided to create new curricula through the renewal of the trade union. This is a broad consensus, but that is not the answer to everything – as it seems to be the government's opinion. SV will renew the school in order to adapt it to the needs of young people. The school day shall take into account a modern family life where both parents are usually active. By extending the school day somewhat and using the time when many kids are still on an expensive SFO with varying quality, the kids can get more time to play, be creative and physically active. There may also be time for a real lunch in the middle of the day. We believe that the school has become too academic, and that the government of Solberg has done little to promote a more practical and varied learning for the students. We have repeatedly called for more practical learning in school and believe that this is important, especially for the youngest students. It is possible for schools and individual teachers to use toys and other practical learning methods in education, but this is too little used. One of the prerequisites of Reform 97 was that the game should have a prominent place in the entire primary school, and that the kids could switch between physical activity and sit-down. The signals from teachers are that school framework conditions – such as time, resources, demands, goals and expectations – have today led many teachers to feel that it is not possible to use more play and practical learning in school. Lessons should be done at school with the help of a teacher, so that kids can be free when they get home. Such a school is short and well a school that takes the whole kid seriously. The school shall promote learning and well-being by developing the creativity of the students, creating diversity in school day and promoting good concentration by providing students with physical activity and eating healthy school food. Then more kids will learn, master and thrive better. The focus must be shifted from theory to practice and activity, from sitting and books to the natural development of children, from detailed objectives of competence and continuous measurement and reporting to understanding and acceptance for the normal development of young people and without requirements for average and theoretical normality objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1502	Reform 97 entered into force on 1 August 1997. Starting school for six-year-olds, 10-year-old schooling and a new curriculum were central to the reform. The school start for six-year-olds was to provide all children with an equivalent pedagogical offer regardless of the place of residence and the family economy. Play was central to the reform. For the youngest children, it is important that learning is done through play. But it is also important that learning takes place in different ways, because children are different and need different approaches. The left is in favour of looking at the impact of the reform on the youngest children, thus responding to the initiative that has taken place through the two proposals we are discussing here today. We already know a good deal about the effects of the reform, but it is important that knowledge is put together and that we also gather new knowledge. For us, however, it is important to stress that we do not want any reversal of the reform. After five years in kindergarten, many children are very ready to go to school. There are many people who may feel a little bit big in kindergarten, and are looking for new challenges. Even today, I followed a six - year - old to the kindergarten. She counts down how many days she has left in kindergarten before she is allowed to begin school. The will for learning at this age is great, and it is important that we facilitate further development, both professionally and socially, because children also learn by reaching out for older children. I think it's important that we bring with us that the youngest children in school today are completely different from when we went to high school. Even when I was six years old, I was part of a test scheme with six - year - olds at school in 1987. Then we had relatively short days and a completely different working day than what the child has today. Very many children have long days at school and AKS/SFO. It is not unusual to be delivered before noon. 08 and be picked up closer. 17. This definitely doesn't have to be negative, but it gives us some issues we have to take seriously, including. related to more anxiety and stress because children feel that they have little leisure time and that most of the day is organized by us adults. I therefore hope that the evaluation will look at the role of AKS and SFO in the everyday lives of children. In some places, the school leisure system is so integrated into school everyday life that children experience it as part of the school day. Furthermore, it is important to stress the crucial role of kindergarten in the development of children. One of the most important tasks of kindergarten is to provide young people with social skills. Good social skills and understanding of one's own and another's borders are important competences for all children. You have to learn how to see that others, for example. is tired, angry or happy. You have to learn to say stop when you don't want to be in the game, and not least what to do when others say stop. If kindergarten succeeds in this work, it will make it easier for the school to follow up the students next time. I believe that this is as important as learning more ‘school’ skills in kindergarten. Learning at school is much easier if the children have basic social skills at the bottom. The transition from a safe and familiar kindergarten to a new and more challenging school day can be frightening to many, both professional and social. Some start in class with children you know from kindergarten, children you know from the community, perhaps teachers you know from the community, while others start in a class where you don't know anybody, and in a short time you'll be familiar with many children and adults. That is why kindergarten and school have to cooperate well on the transition, and therefore it is so important that we discussed the matter earlier today, where we legislate on an obligation for kindergarten owners and schools to cooperate on the transition of children from kindergarten to school and school leisure. You can't decide if you're going to fix it, you're going to fix it. There is a lot of good work today in kindergartens and schools throughout the country, but with that legislation I hope that the work will be reinforced. All children should be given an opportunity to participate in the AKS and SFO, irrespective of the income of their parents. That is why the Left in the government statement has been given an insight into the introduction of parental-reduced schemes and free half-day seats in the SFO, as we have implemented for kindergartens. When so many children participate in the school leisure scheme in the early school years, social exclusion can be risked if you do not participate. That's why it's very important that all children have the same opportunities. A good start to SFO and AKS provide the best basis for a good start to school. Therefore, the Left is committed to increasing the quality of the school leisure system and its transition here. Play must be central to the SFO, but play must not mean free playing on a permanent basis. Organised activities facilitate varied play and ensure that all get to be part of the game. These are important principles both in the school leisure system and in the school system, and we hope that these are elements we can improve further beyond an evaluation of such a reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1523	We might write a little bit of school history through today's decision to evaluate the six-year reform. On a proposal from the Centre Party and the Christian People's Party, it is very gratifying that today a Joint Committee agrees to develop a knowledge overview of research at the youngest children in school, which can be used in the field of vocational renewal, in order to better facilitate the educational situation of the youngest children in school. However, an external evaluation of the relationship between the intentions and the principles of schooling for six-year-olds, as expressed in Reform 97, is also stated, compared to the current situation for six-year-olds in school. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur and an overall committee for their good and constructive work. In 2017, one of the biggest changes in the daily lives of Norwegian children occurred 20 years ago by the introduction of the six-year reform. The intention was that the first year of school should be a transition year, where the children had, as many people have attended, the best of kindergarten and school at the same time. The children would have to play, they would not sit still for long, and the pedagogy in the classroom would be characterized by kindergarten education. Reform 97 and the six-year reform had a short life span. The good intentions of bringing the six-year-olds into school changed rapidly when the Knowledge promise was introduced. And what was the consequence? Children’s play and children’s premises largely disappeared from the first grade, and the school day of the youngest was shaped on premises that in many ways prevented the child from learning through play and the natural activities of the six-year-old. Then we record that in the debate that has gone into the media on this matter, there are people who call this ‘dill and valley and play and fool’. This, I believe, shows little insight into how young children learn to develop. It is precisely through the play that children are working up social, motor and cognitive skills and learning to communicate with each other and not least master challenges. Fortunately, there is a lot of research on how to document this. Through pedagogics based on this understanding, children will be given a school start that provides the best starting point for both learning and well-being, and which is based on where the children are developing, rather than the school system requiring them in terms of skills. Play is no contrast to learning. A study conducted by the SSB shows that students who start school as six-year-olds also do not have better grades or higher level of implementation in higher education. Until now, researchers have not found any learning effects from the introduction of six-year-olds at school, and say that they still know too little about how to best accommodate the smallest children. Then there are also some other issues and challenges that may be related to the fact that school start-ups are too much on the premises of schools and not children. Over time, we've seen that more and more boys have challenges in school, and that the number of ADHD-diagnoses is increasing. Research from the Swedish Institute of Public Health, published in 2017, shows that children born late in the year are more often diagnosed with ADHD than children born before the summer. The study actually shows that boys born late in the year have 40 pst. more likely to receive ADHD medicinal products than boys born early in the year. This is knowledge in which it is important to drill, and which you have to ask questions about can be associated with the content of the school that we are inviting the six-year-old today. There is a need for a comprehensive review of the content and organisation of the early school years, and in particular of the first. The aim of such a review is that the pedagogy applied to six-year-olds should be adapted to the level of maturity of children and knowledge of how young children learn. The current focus on mapping and learning pressures on skills such as reading, writing and billing needs to be evaluated and assessed against knowledge of how children learn best. Such a knowledge acquisition must have a broad approach to which elements are evaluated, because a school should not only focus on learning effects but also on well-being and education and should be a place where the whole human being is seen. We get this – yes, we write an important piece of Norwegian school history. In the future, the Christian People's Party will continue to work to bring about changes that are needed to ensure that school starts are on children's premises and not at school.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1544	Anyone who has enjoyed following a child until the first day of school knows how many expectations and wonders the children have for what to meet them. Is the teacher nice? Do I get new friends? What are we going to learn? I am concerned that all children will experience a school that is adapted to their age and needs. They have to meet adults who create a safe and educational environment in school every day. I trust that the teachers will organize the school days for the youngest children, and that they will use both competence and discretion. Skilled educators know that play and learning are not at odds with each other, as the debate on school and education can often give the impression. Children learn through play. The play has a self-value while it can be a valuable educational tool. This is precisely why the government has determined in the new, overarching part of the curriculum that playing is necessary for well-being and development, especially for the youngest in school. Our goal is that no students should go out of school without learning to read, write and calculate properly. This goal can only be achieved if students experience safe and good learning environments. Fortunately, there is a lot of evidence that the school is on the right track. The youngest students have good results in mathematics, science and reading, and the student survey shows that nine out of ten students are well off in school. What we should get more knowledge about is how the very youngest children are doing in school. It's not professional evidence to say that they're disgruntled, but we don't know enough about the day-to-day school of these children. Individual studies are available. A study of the youngest students in Hedmark shows that the students are comfortable at school, have friends and like the subjects. Much has changed both in school and in society since the first six-year-olds put their little feet in the schoolyard. When we know how important the early years of kindergarten and school are to children's professional and social development, we also need to make sure that we have knowledge of how students experience this time. That's why we're going to do a lot of work to learn more about how the youngest children are doing in today's school. In the short term, we will order a knowledge overview of research at the youngest children in school. Furthermore, we will launch an external, independent research mission that can assess the characteristics of teachers’ pedagogical practices towards the youngest children, the expectations of the children, the offers they receive, the organisation of the school day and the experience of the learning environment. We need to know more about how we can build a stronger team around the children as best we can, so that they get a safe and educational everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1557	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1563	As I said in my post, I'm glad that today we are bringing together a decision, and, as the Council of State also said, a total increase wants more knowledge. I agree with what the Council said in its statement, that there is a lot of good work done in the Norwegian school, but there are also some challenges that it is worth addressing, and which I think this decision will help to achieve. So my question is, as I also said in my post: Can the Council of State say something about the government's ambition for the follow-up to the evaluation you get – whether you can commit to further work? Can he say anything about what one expects the next step is to do something for the youngest children, to whom the Council of State was in?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1570	Let me first say that we've done a lot already. We have just left behind a debate on the standard of living and pedagogical standards, we adopt a statutory obligation for the municipalities to cooperate between school and kindergarten, we have introduced an obligation for the municipalities for early efforts, we implement a teaching norm in cooperation with the Christian People's Party, and we are now implementing the subject of vocational renewal, which will contribute to the renewal of the whole school. This is also reflected in the overall part of the curriculum, where the emphasis is on well-being, play and development — especially for younger children. When I have notified that we want to obtain this professional basis, it is because I believe it is necessary. We need to know more about how the youngest children are doing in school, and once we have the knowledge base, of course, we are busy following it up, so that we can create a safe and good framework around the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1577	The play is the most important way for children to express themselves. Lek develops the children, both socially and professionally. The principle for the ‘small-spherical step’ in L97 was as follows: ‘By game, students shall explore the surroundings, work with their impressions and try different roles and practical solutions.’ Since 1997, this principle has become less important. Teachers say that lesson-based learning and time for outdoor activities has been delayed due to time pressure to achieve both learning goals and local targets and to prepare students for screening tests. I wonder then: When teachers experience cross-press and conflict between what is pedagogical and the demands and expectations that follow target management in school, what does the Council of State think teachers should give priority to?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1587	Of course, teachers should relate to the overall part of the curriculum and to the curricula being developed. I quoted from the overall part that the government has laid down, that play is necessary for well-being and development, especially for the youngest children in school. This is the general -- I kept saying -- basic law for the school, as the blue-green government has stated. And while we're going to get more information about how the youngest children are doing, we're also going to be glad that a lot is going well. We have now received results on completion of high school, which shows that there are more who complete than ever, and that the most promising are children who have the weakest starting point, either through parental education or through grades. So much goes in the right direction. And then we're going to take the knowledge base that we're gradually getting, to do it even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1594	I am glad that the game has also got its place in the overall curriculum. But I still want to ask questions about the skills objectives. Today, there are no skills targets for 1st class, but in practice, there are many schools that have many skills targets for their first class. Does the Council of State consider it appropriate to specify that the first class should not have its own objectives of competence?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1599	Now it's the way to renew all the curricula in school through the innovation. Now we're going to start the curriculum itself, and then it's natural to look at the skills objectives to be set. I don't want to pre-empt the work done, but you have to deal with the decisions made in the Storting and the overall part of the curriculum. So I also stressed in my post that there is no contradiction between play and learning. At the same time, we must also be concerned that all children have the right to be met with expectations. For some of the most frightening is that too many people have been allowed to go throughout primary school without learning to read, write and calculate. That's why we're so concerned about the first few years: both that we have a safe framework around learning, and that we catch up with those who are going to be hanging after.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1606	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1613	It has been over 20 years since the six-year reform was introduced. Now it's time to take a step aside, take the breath down well, put the ambitions, which no end will take, wait and think about: how is it to be six years today? What's it like to start school? We lack knowledge of the effect of early school leaving. We know that the impact on grades in high school, the choice of education programmes and the implementation of secondary schools is small. Another thing we know is that motivation is important for learning. The students have both external and internal motivation. Many students experience testing and feedback as an industry for their learning — they master it. But many students experience still-sitting and theory as discouraging and perhaps even impossible. These students also deserve a training that is motivating; these students also deserve to experience mastery. We recently had a debate about intensive schooling. The relationship between basic skills related to theoretical work was elevated as the priority of the government. The center party's priority is greater than that, it's students' motivation. Time and again, when the students experience failure, it has consequences. Professor Trond H. Diseth of the University of Oslo and superior to Oslo University Hospital Stein Förde has shown that mental and somatic disorders are increasing in extent, and sees this in a strong context with schooling and testing. They point out that the physical prerequisites the children have for mastering the school are not in line with the demands that are made when they enter the classroom. In fact, it turns out that the evolution of the brain has not come far enough for all of the reading that the government likes to see in order to increase the reading skills already in the first class. I am very pleased with the external evaluation we will now receive. Just improving the needs of the youngest students is the main ambition of the Centre Party. We have to work to build mastering already in the first class. Although things are new, even though things are different and maybe a little scary, there are also great opportunities to accept these students and give them what they need. The teachers at school today want to meet this, they want to do the best for the students, so we also have to give them the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1626	There was a thought-provoking post in the Evening Post today, written by Helene Skjæggestad. She writes about a mother who's going to follow her son to boarding school in May. She writes: ‘Goodness is 5 years and 5 months when they meet for school registration in May. Mom swallows hard several times. The phrase ‘he’s not ready’ appears again and again as she looks at the too big school bag that dances on the little back.’ Many parents may not feel the security they should be in school. Therefore, it is vital that we look at how we can make the school more adapted to the younger ones, a more practical and varied school. A prerequisite for this is more teachers, more parents are involved, and something is done with SFO, as the Left made a point here in the debate – but also that we think about the learning vision. How instrumental are we going to treat and measure a five- or six-year-old? I think it's a pleasure that the parties agree on much of the description of reality, to meet the youngest children on their own terms, to emphasize the play and to agree on more knowledge of the younger ones. To be honest, I am uncertain whether this debate had been the same without the Ludvigsen Committee, which came a few years ago. The Ludvigsen committee asked themselves what the students need, and what is the way to learning. And just so we're going to remember why the Red-Green government put down the Ludvigsen Committee, it was that what dominated the debate after the Knowledge Lift was target management, national tests and basic skills. The question that was asked was, do we have a school that is too narrow for what students need to learn in the future? It was about adjusting the course — a school that thought more of cleaning up goals and curricula. I think it's hard to overestimate how important the Ludvigsen Committee's attitude was. The result was also both inspirational and correct to the political parties: to us, to the Right – who in 2013 opted to double the number of objectives in the curriculum and instruct all teachers to write reports on all students in Norwegian, math, English and natural sciences, or grades from the 5th grade. These are proposals that have been put on ice later, and I think that is important. The Ludvigsen Committee was the starting point for the innovation that we now have in school. One of our wishes is that the consequences of the Ludvigsen Committee should also be to look at the quality assessment system in the school, while the innovation is ongoing. In any case, I am pleased with the decisions we are making today, and I would like to thank the Christian People's Party and the Center Party who proposed it. There is an absolutely necessary debate on how to meet the youngest in school, but also – we hope – a debate on the learning vision to shape the school.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1646	I am also pleased that we are taking this debate on school policy. I think it's incredibly interesting. I want to start by calming the representative Tvedt Solberg, who was concerned about the Right's view of play. The new overall section clearly shows that play is necessary for well-being and development, and it can also contribute to creative and meaningful learning. The right is in favour of any research-based pedagogical method, which the teacher-profession wants to use together, and from which they see that the students thrive and learn. That is why I agree with the representative Gruvan that playing is a pedagogical method, it is not ‘dull and valley’. Lek is also not one activity, play is many different activities. Some are better than others, as is the case with many pedagogical methods. An example of this is when Reform 97 was evaluated from 1998 to 2003. One of the sub-projects examined, inter alia: the pedagogical structure of the youngest students, i.e. the six-year-olds. The researchers found out that the six-year-olds played a lot, but that there was mainly free play without the involvement of teachers, and they found few examples of games being used systematically as a educational tool. But that doesn't mean it can't be done. We have a lot of schools where that's exactly what you're doing, and who manage to use varied practical methods for the younger children, to provide adapted education and a good learning environment. Then I just have to stress to the representative Knutsdatter Strand that it is not that reading, writing and billing are theoretical subjects. Reading, writing and billing are not subjects – reading, writing and billing are skills that we need for absolutely everything, including creative, aesthetic and practical disciplines. That's exactly what's so good about the Ludvigsen committee that has now been mentioned: that you talk about skills that you need to learn, and that's really important. I would also like to point out that the report, which the expert group led by Thomas Nordahl recently presented on special education, highlighted one thing, and that was that special education is very poor today, among other things. because there are too few expectations for those students who are given special education decisions. You just don't expect them to learn anything, and then they're set to do things other than focus on the subjects and skills goals. It actually shows that we're going to be a little bit careful about making low expectations for children and for students, because it might not help them in the future. Map to the representative Tvedt Solberg, who challenged me on ambitions ahead: The trade union renewal, the curriculum groups that are now being set up, will work on new curricula. There are professionals involved, professionals who know how the younger ones develop. New teacher training with more practice in kindergarten is a very good tool, and not least what I want to highlight first of all: the development of the teacher-specialist system in early education, the fact that we get more experts on how the younger children develop in school. For it is the experts who have to decide which methods are used, not the politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1661	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1677	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will suggest that, within the allocated speaking time, six rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time are given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1686	I would first like to thank the Cooperation Committee. I Prop. 64 L on the UH Act a number of proposals for amendments to the provisions on examination and complaint on examination are made. The Committee supports the proposed amendments and will in particular highlight the proposal for sensor guidance for all examinations, a measure which the government should ensure that as soon as possible is implemented in order to contribute to the important objective of ensuring that all students have as far as possible a predictable and fair examination assessment. The Committee also supports the legislative proposal to facilitate the transfer of administrative tasks from the Ministry to the NOCUT, while ensuring the necessary independence is clearly protected by law. The law should make it clear which parts of NOCUT’s activities are covered by the Ministry’s governing authority and institutional responsibility, in order to avoid any doubt as to the independence of NOCUT in the statutory tasks of accreditation, evaluation and professional supervision of Norwegian education and institutions as well as the handling of individual cases concerning the general recognition of foreign higher education. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Right, the Party of Advancement, the Left and the Christian People's Party, point out that oral examination is a form of examination on which it is difficult to complain because the examination is not filmed, and that oral examination should be filmed in the cases which the candidate himself wishes, so that the candidate is given a better starting point in a possible complaint. We therefore ask the government in the context of the notified review of the UH Act to consider whether a system of video recording of the oral examination can be implemented. The Committee supports the proposal to amend the law in such a way that it is not only by judgment but also by the adoption of proposals for infringements resulting from a police certificate that there may be grounds for exclusion from practical studies or clinical training. The Committee also supports the Ministry's assessment of the legal basis for the registration and other processing of personal data on students, doctoral candidates and employees in the higher education sector – this in order to gain a good knowledge of results in the sector and of what actions are and which are not working. The members of the Committee of the Right, the Party of Advances and the Left further support the Ministry's proposal that institutions should be able to impose special and stricter requirements for admission to individual studies where the implementation of the study so requires. These parties want the institutions to have this autonomy and therefore propose that it be implemented nevertheless.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1701	The representative of Marianne Synnes has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1706	There are a number of changes in the law here today. Some of these adjustments are particularly important for the students, and I would particularly like to raise the mentoring system, which the Workers' Party has been working for too long. Already in the context of the 2016 state budget, we proposed to introduce incentives so that the universities could test mentors for the students. The proposal was unfortunately voted down by the government parties. We believe that it would allow the institutions to make efforts to increase implementation and reduce non-response, and not least it would provide important experience in improving study quality. The majority have here repeated the request that Stortinget made almost a year ago, during the processing of the quality notification in June 2017. The majority of the committee is still waiting for the government to investigate, and we want to start a mentoring scheme as soon as the government has taken the first step that we asked for last year. That the opposition is more offensive than the government in terms of study quality is nothing new. This is also the case in this case. Then we can enjoy the sensor guidance system for all exams, a measure that strengthens students' legal certainty and provides less arbitrary assessments – we hope. With regard to the government's proposal for locally directed admission requirements, which the Right would initially have in place to facilitate more performance training, there is no majority in favour of that proposal in the Committee. The Labour Party considers that there are good reasons for maintaining national access to set specific requirements and actually warns against the practices that could lead to different requirements for equal study and make it both unwieldy and difficult for students to inform themselves. We still think the government has a lot to pick up when it comes to facilitating the quality of teaching and follow-up of students, student welfare and infrastructure. We believe that it does not contribute positively to the quality of the study either that the government has for a number of years done flat cut at the schools. Finally, we see that the government parties in a note write that video filming of oral exams should be investigated. The Labour Party has no objection to this being investigated, but we note that it is not promoted as a separate proposal in the vote. So if the parties really believe that this should be investigated, they must propose it. With that, I recommend the Committee's attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1723	I record that three out of ten students at the University of Oslo complete their studies in normal time. Three out of ten is an incredibly low number. Now that we are promoting this bill by the government, we want to look into this, and one of the measures universities should consider in order to ensure a better flow at universities is to set their own, stricter and special admission requirements. There may be studies with which one has experience will require a certain amount of prior knowledge in order to be able to master at all. There are proposals universities should have the opportunity to assess themselves. It may be to impose requirements for letters of motivation, simply to ensure that the students applying for admission to the university are motivated to conduct the study, or it may be to establish opportunities for interview, which we know are common practice in other countries, and which are easy to copy to Norway. Normally, when the Education Committee discusses matters about universities and colleges, it talks about university autonomy. It is a concept that is used when it suits the starting point of each representative, but not in other matters, when we look at the Workers' Party today, where supporting the autonomy of universities is not important. The institutions themselves want the possibility to set their own, stricter and special admission requirements. That is why I am pleased that the Progress Party, the Right and the Left are at least united about it, and I hope that the Working Party with time and moments will see that it would have been a good idea to support it. There is no doubt that there is a connection between the quality of the recording, motivation and non-response, and I believe that the universities should have the opportunity to do so. Now they still want it, and I'll encourage the department to look at the applications that will come from the institutions after that. Then it's filming the oral exam, which has been an important matter for the Progress Party. At our national meeting earlier this year, we have adopted a resolution to investigate and put in place the filming of oral exams, and now it seems that we get a majority for it. I am very pleased that the Christian People's Party has supported us in this matter. It's about giving students and students the opportunity to complain about their grades. When they conduct an oral examination without filming, it will be difficult to show afterwards that there have been misassessments or complaints of behaviour during the examination. And now we're going to give that an opportunity. I don't see the need to have a proposal on it, because as long as the government parties with the support of the Christian People's Party make it visible that this is something we want the government to work on, I guess the government wants to work on it. Then I can signal that the Progress Party wants this to be practice in high school too, but it must then be incorporated into another law. What is important in the investigation work now is to take into account the privacy, the storage of these films, who will use them. How to ensure the privacy of each student is very important. In addition, there is a need to look at equipment and practicalities around universities, but I am happy that there is now going to be a majority for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1734	There is broad consensus in the Committee on many of the amendments proposed, so I should just like to make a few brief comments on a few of the points in the vote. One concerns the issue of the introduction of a step-by-step mentoring system in higher education. That seems to be a positive proposal to the Central Party. We note that the Left, on behalf of the government parties, has also presented a proposal with a slightly different wording in the Chamber today, and we see no reason not to be able to support that proposal in a subsidiary way, because in our opinion both proposals will help to get you off to work for exactly that. I would also like to say that the Central Party does not agree with the comment on whether it is possible to establish a system of video recordings on oral examinations, but would like to inform me that in particular it is a good proposal to carry out such an assessment, and that the government is looking into whether it is possible if the candidate so wishes. There is no suggestion at that point, but the Central Party will at least signal that we have nothing against the government doing such a review, and see if it can be implemented in some cases. There is a point in the position where there is some disagreement in the committee, but there is no fundamental disagreement in and separately. There is no disagreement that, in some cases, additional requirements can be imposed. We probably agreed that this could be possible. More should be done on the system, whether it should be such as today that it is actually subject to approval by the ministry or whether it is the institutions that decide it. The central party basically believes that the system you have today is working well. It allows individual institutions to impose additional requirements when necessary, but at the same time it provides some overall management by the Ministry as regards the scope of additional requirements. We think that's a sensible and neat arrangement to be able to keep going, and we're glad that there's a majority behind that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1745	Today's legislative proposals are largely in agreement with and cross-political agreement. However, I would like to express my criticism of the government's proposal that universities and colleges should be able to set special admission requirements themselves. I fear that this will lead to increased centralization and create an a and b layer. The largest and most competitive institutions will be able to recruit the most successful students. I believe it will be a strength for the quality of the study offer and the development of higher education that the student diversity ensures a wide range. For example, the students of pedagogical education mean: that special admission requirements laid down by the institutions themselves would be very negative for the overall and national recruitment of the teaching profession. Unfortunately, we have a shortage of teachers in Norwegian school today. The number of unskilled teachers has increased by 40 pst. under this Government. It shows that we have a government that does not take this seriously. The math requirement for admission to teacher training and the separation of 33,000 teachers do not contribute exactly in this way. Nor do we believe that several and many different admission requirements that the institutions themselves can determine will be successful in this context. Not only do we have to make sure that motivated students get into the education they want, but we also have to make sure that the quality of the study and the student follow-up are so good that the students are able to complete. The results of the study barometer carried out in 2015 contain clear signals that students are too little part of a professional community, and that 50 pst. of the students have never discussed their professional development/results with professional employees. Many students lack a professional membership in the study. If the institutions are to be able to counteract the drop-out in higher education and build up under the student's professional motivation and well-being, the students must be able to be included in a subject environment to which they are linked, including early in the course of study. The Norwegian student organisation believes the solution to this is to ensure a broader professional inclusion and follow-up in a professional mentoring system, so that the students have a person to contact for professional questions. In this way, students will be helped to choose a professional direction for their studies, and this is fully agreed. That is why, together with the Left, we supported proposals on this when the big message was being discussed. Unfortunately, I did not get the majority then, but I see that the government parties have made a loose proposal. It seems to me to be a pleasure and I hope this is followed up quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1758	This bill solves several challenges, including: it makes sense to carry over administrative tasks from the Ministry to the NOCUT. There are several good grips around the exam with sensor guidance, and not least we in the Left are very pleased that one can now demand documentation through filming of oral exams. Then I would like to see the institutions also have the opportunity to set special and stricter requirements for admission to individual studies when considering the conduct of the study makes this necessary, but this unfortunately goes against the majority. There has been some discussion around the mentoring system. The left is for academic freedom and as much autonomy as possible. In addition, we believe that decisions should be taken on a professional basis and that high emphasis should be placed on public investigations. This is why the Left is in favour of a mentoring scheme, but against overriding legislative provisions, as the Workers' Party's proposal proposes by others. Yesterday the government received an inquiry into the mentoring system from the Ministry of Knowledge. The study focuses on the University of Bergen and explains the different mentoring systems that are already being practised there. It shows that different types of mentoring schemes can be a good tool for institutions to integrate new students into the disciplines, improve implementation and promote links with the labour market. These are important objectives for the institutions and the ministry. It is very positive that many institutions are already introducing different mentoring schemes at faculty and institute level. These are good initiatives, and we are pleased to see the results of these actions. Nevertheless, we believe that a national mentoring system imposed on all students will be a major intervention in the autonomy of universities and higher education institutions. Mentoring schemes for all students will be resource-intensive and a form of detailed management of how universities and colleges organise their education, which the Left does not want. The last moment is that a bill will take an unnecessary long time, preferably up to a year and a half. The government wants to bring the mentoring scheme into the budget already until the autumn as part of the 2019 government budget. That's how we get rid of long and extensive processes. Universities and colleges are given good incentives to introduce mentoring schemes, and students are given access to mentors far more than today. We believe that this is a sensible policy. It is speeding up, and the negative influence of the institutions' freedom which the majority's position will lead to will be avoided. Therefore, on behalf of the Government Parties, I would like to make the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to the Government of the State Budget for 2019 with a statement on the follow-up to the study of the mentoring system in higher education and a description of how a mentoring system can be introduced in stages for Bachelor’s students and students in other parts of the study cycle.’ Finally, I would like to say that there is a mistake in the vote in IIB. The government parties do not support this proposal, but instead the proposal I referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1774	The representative of Grunde Almeland has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1779	In the quality notification work, many important issues and issues relating to the university and higher education sectors were raised. I am pleased that the government is now following up and in this proposition comes up with proposals for good and important changes in the law of higher education. In addition, it is good that the government also announces that it will do its own comprehensive work and revise the legislation applicable to universities and higher education institutions. In this process, it is important, in the view of the Christian People's Party, that universities and colleges themselves take part and raise challenges and issues that they believe need to be assessed in this work. The Christian People's Party supports most of the things in the proposition, and is pleased that the committee is largely united, but there are a few things I want to particularly touch on. The first is the ability of institutions to impose additional requirements on admission. The Christian People's Party believes that freedom to the institutions is important, and that it can be right with your own professional admission requirements for some studies. At the same time, we are concerned that the government's proposal to release this solution and let institutions decide for themselves whether to have their own requirements or not will lead to an unbridled landscape for the students and large differences between similar education at different institutions. It could be a problem. We therefore do not support the Government's proposed amendment at this point and believe that today's regime in which the Ministry is to approve special admission requirements ensures both the possibility of setting its own requirements and the avoidance of inappropriate consequences of release of specific requirements. In working on the quality notification, the majority of governments asked the government to carry out a step-by-step mentoring scheme in higher education. It is good that the department has done this and ordered an investigation from the University of Bergen that is now available. Such mentoring is important for the students, and we believe that it can contribute to a higher degree of completion and a better day of study for the students. In addition, such a scheme will ensure good professional progress and guidance. We therefore support the proposal that the government should come back to this in its work on the review of legislation in the sector and see how such a step-by-step mentoring system can be put in place. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that this arrangement applies to all students, and that the offer does not vary from institution to institution in terms of the arrangement. But the content may vary. We look forward to the government returning to Stortinget with a proposal on how this can be implemented. We in the Christian People's Party also support the proposal that the representative of the Left has made. We think it's a constructive approach that makes a quick start, and that we can start this already coming academic year, at least through an orientation and a proposal on how to do this, already in the context of the 2019 government budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1795	The government has submitted several proposals, and most of these proposals have received broad agreement in the committee's position. So I'm referring to the proposition's mention of these. The government proposes several amendments dealing with exams and appeals on exams, which will strengthen students' rights. The proposal to develop sensor guidance for all examinations is a follow-up to the quality notification. The systematic use of sensor guidance shall contribute to better quality assurance of the learning outcomes established and to reducing differences in censorship and between sensors. There have been cases where some students, following complaints about exams with a new censorship, have changed their results by two or more grades. I think it gives the students little predictable situation, and the government therefore believes that in such cases training institutions must be required to carry out a further assessment before the final character can be determined. The government also believes that it will strengthen students’ rights by legislating an individual right of appeal during the group examination. The quality notification also submitted proposals that universities and colleges themselves should be able to impose ‘additional special admission requirements’ for individual studies other than those resulting from current university and higher education law or the admission requirement. The background to the proposal is inter alia: that there is a high proportion of those on key topics and that several institutions see that general study competence for some studies does not provide sufficient basis for carrying out the study. I have noticed that the majority of the committee wants to continue today's arrangement, where the department sets out special admission requirements. I would also like to comment on the proposal in the vote, referring to the ongoing work on mentoring arrangements for the review of the UH Act. The mentoring system can be a good tool for integrating new students into the trade unions, improving implementation and promoting greater links with the labour market. As a big representative, I was the proposer of the proposal that was adopted in the last big-time, to investigate this. We have just received the investigation from the University of Bergen, and I want to follow it up already until the fall. I believe that the proposal to refer that work to the review of the law is a poor solution for several reasons. First of all, the legislative committee will deliver its position in the year-end 2019–2020, and a follow-up to this legislative proposal is likely to take place only in 2021. There is an unnecessary delay in that process. Secondly, referring to the law committee gives a clear signal that this is a system that should be legalised, but it is a premature conclusion, at a time when we have not even had a proper treatment of the investigation. It is an instrument that will be an outrage or an intervention in the autonomy of universities and higher education institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1814	The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1819	I am pleased that the Committee is united in strengthening the students' rights, but I note that the Committee is divided as regards the autonomy of the institutions, where the opposition wants to limit the autonomy of the institutions. The proposal on mentoring is such a restriction. In the proposition of the UH Act, the University and Higher Education Act, the Ministry of Knowledge reports that they have asked the University of Bergen to investigate a mentoring scheme for students. That's good. When the matter was put to the committee, the Ministry of Knowledge had just received the result of the investigation. In spite of this, the opposition chooses to ask the government in the overall review of the UH Act to investigate and propose how a professional mentoring system can be established for all higher education students. It is quite special to decide that the mentoring system should be introduced by law before the outcome of the investigation. The wording of the majority decision now reads, with clear reference to the review of the UH Act, there will be further detail and regulation of the activities of the UH institutions, rather than autonomy and less detailed government regulation. Our goal is that the students should be followed up in the best possible way. We therefore ask – together with the Left and the Advance Party – the government to come back to the Stortinget in the state budget for 2019 with a statement on the follow-up to the study of mentoring in higher education. It should contain a description of best practice in this area so that UH institutions can receive a knowledge-based recommendation on how to follow up a mentoring scheme themselves. Student well-being, implementation and non-response are currently part of the governance dialogue between the institutions and the Ministry of Knowledge. Institutions have a strong focus on this. Many institutions today have mentoring arrangements, but we do not know what works well, and what results in conducting studies. UiB's experience is that there is a lower threshold for new students to talk to incoming students than with employees, and that they are still looking for the good model and who are the good mentors. The UiB indicates that they have not yet found the format for the legal mentoring system and that such follow-up is already expected from the institutions through the just quality notification. This case is probably an example of the best being the worst enemy of good. One is so concerned about imposing seemingly caring symbolism policies that one ignores whether it will make a positive difference. Taking the mentoring system into law before knowing whether it will work, in what form it will work best, and what resources it will require, is unfortunately just enough an example of a little constructive detailed management of the UH sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1832	I don't want to excite the debate any further, but I have to record a reflection that students have been a group that all parties have supported the demands from a long time ago – without necessarily prioritizing them. Even I have claimed that it has a connection with the number of students and fresh candidates in the Stortinget. More young people in Stortinget and the State Council hardly have the credit alone for today's things, but I'm happy with the breakthroughs the students here get. Sensor system and access to justice are two examples: the mentoring system is a third. It is intended to hear government parties have a different view of the mentoring from that of the opposition. But we're always going to be able to evaluate and evaluate along the way here as well. It seems that both proposals can potentially have a majority. It should be a victory for the students.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1839	We propose in this case that: ‘The Government, as part of the overall review of the legislation of universities and higher education, is asked to investigate and propose ways of gradually introducing a professional mentoring scheme for all higher education students’. This is because the government itself has announced a review of the legislation, and the opposition, including the Christian People's Party, believes that such a review must also include one of the most important measures the Stortinget has adopted on the quality of study and student follow-up. This is well justified, including: In the study survey survey, students from all over the country are asking for better follow-up in the studies. Norwegian student organisation is also very clear on this. It's the Workers' Party for, and we'll make sure that as soon as it does. It is therefore not, as some Right-Representatives seem to believe, talking about putting the mentoring system into the law itself – that is not what we are adopting today. Firstly, a job must be done, and then it must be ensured that all students in our basic education receive a professional mentoring system. It is a follow-up to the law, and it is even clearly placed under the heading ‘Other work on the law of higher education’. If the government can deliver on this already until the harvest, nothing is better than that. We are already one year off, without the parties, the sector or the students having seen neither investigation nor proposals from the government. After all, it is the Grandfather's responsibility to follow up the government, and we are doing so today on the matter of mentoring for students. To conclude, the Labour Party is constructive, and we would like to vote in favour of resolving the proposal of the government parties. There is no conflict with the proposals of the majority of the Committee on Budgets, and we would like to make a statement on the budget. But we still want both investigation and concrete proposals for mentoring.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1855	Another nice day at work. It is very good that will be passed with this law. When I take the word here today, it's because sometimes it becomes so incredibly clear how different we look at the world, depending on which party we represent. I have to say that I really blocked my eyes when I heard more representatives standing here today and saying that giving the institutions themselves the opportunity to set special admission requirements in cases where the conduct of the study requires it is to help create elite training. I have to say I didn't see it coming. This is about getting adapted recording requirements to be involved and better implemented. I also believe that I have registered that the Workers' Party itself believes that there are too few students who complete their education, but they do not therefore believe that the institutions themselves can best determine which recording requirements are needed. It was also said here that it was necessary for the department to have overall control over it. I must say, I think it's strange. There's a lot of talk about trust in school and trust in the university and higher education sectors, but when it comes to practical decisions, we're not there. We don't trust that the universities and colleges themselves are the best ones to set special admission requirements where they need it. We do not trust that the universities and colleges themselves are best placed to decide what kind of mentoring they should have, and can take the initiative to implement it. I want to quote the Council of State Iselin Nybø, who recently stated that she felt it was a little special that ‘the majority of the population have more confidence in the Council of State than in the universities and colleges of the country as to who should be admitted as students’. I think it is very happy that you have even greater confidence in the Council of State – I do too – but I actually also have faith in the institutions. I also want to comment that I hear politicians go up here and say repeatedly that their own party is more impatient in ensuring quality in higher education, that they have higher ambitions than anyone else in ensuring quality in higher education. We might have a slightly different view of what to prioritize, we might have a slightly different view of how to solve the challenges, and we might be a little bit overly influenced by the law of the jante in this country, but I have to say it seems like a little strange practice to stand here and hit yourself on the chest and pretend to be better than everyone else. This government has done a lot to increase the quality of higher education, and they will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1866	Although there is now no majority to allow institutions to set special admission requirements themselves, I can at least inform you that most institutions that have so far wanted to introduce special admission requirements have received a yes from the ministry. For example, nurse training at OsloMet has now required 3 in Norwegian and 4 in math, which they believe is a prerequisite for those students who will succeed in completing nursing training. The training of journalists at OsloMet has called for 4 in Norwegian, and it seems quite logical that Norwegians should be strong in order to carry out journalistic training. The requirement for 4 in English at NMBU for English language Bachelor’s programmes is also quite logical. You should have a certain degree of English skills to get into a study conducted in English. Universities and colleges have wanted this flexibility themselves. They want them to be able to set these requirements in order to obtain flexibility, to strengthen the recording requirements and to ensure better implementation of the studies. Then I think it's very special that the Workers' Party believes that these are better to assess than the universities themselves. I don't think we're getting a majority for that today, and I think that's gross. Fortunately, we have a solution-oriented department that will be able to manage this anyway and ensure that universities have the opportunity to set the requirements they think are necessary. Finally, I would like to take the floor when it comes to filming an oral exam, which has been debated here today. I think it is positive that both the Central Party and the Workers' Party signal that they want to support such a proposal. Now it is the case that no proposal has been made, only in the form of a comment, but I perceive that everything verbally said from this interlocutor is as valid as observations in the case. State Council Iselin Nybø also sits in the hall and gets the mood, so I just want to ask the council to confirm that she also perceives these signals that there is a clear majority who want oral exams in higher education to be filmed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1877	I didn't intend to take the word several times, but I wonder if the blood sugar is starting to get low with some representatives in this room, for now I honestly think that a person is exaggerating a disparate assessment by the majority and minority in terms of additional requirements, in a way that goes over all the boots. I didn't really intend to take the floor, but when the representative Kristensen suggests that this means that some of us have little or no faith in the institutions, I have to be allowed to go up and correct it. I have a lot of experience with some of the institutions on the university and university sides. I've been an external director of NTNU for years. I definitely have faith in the institutions. There is no basis for interpreting different opinions on how to proceed in order to impose additional requirements, such as a deep and sustained ideological conflict or a conflict of confidence in the institutions. If one chooses to do so, one has to end with it, because then one completely exaggerates what it says. I just have to point out that the majority here also point out that the government has presented maritime counter-representation against this system being left to universities and colleges on its own. There has also been a pro/contra-assessment by the government in the past – if not exactly in today's proposition, it has been so in the past. There are advantages and disadvantages to it. I think we have to recognize that from both the majority and the minority. The majority have found that we think today's system is basically working well. It is not limited to introducing additional requirements when desirable and necessary, but at the same time it provides a little overall governance from the Ministry. To be honest, there's no deep ideological distinction between us. If anyone thinks so, I think it's about time we ended the debate and went to the restaurant and took some food.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1890	It could probably be an advantage with food for some people each. Among other things, from the representative of the Central Party, it was said that the government parties have a different view of the mentoring system than the opposition has. I am very surprised at that, because I feel that we are all honoured by the mentoring system. What we disagree on is whether or not all good measures should be legislated. My resistance to taking it into the law is about two things. First of all, it is a matter of being far ahead of time. A closure shall be provided in 2020 and a follow-up to it will be possible to reach the Stortinget in 2021 at the earliest. I mean, if we want to cheer up the mentoring system, if we want to stimulate universities to put it into practice, there's no need to wait until 2021 with that. Then we can start using the tools we have. Then there's another thing, and there's the fundamental difference between the government parties and the opposition. This is not about the mentoring system as such – we think the mentoring system is good. But we believe that legislating all good measures is the wrong way to go. It's easy to talk about autonomy, it's easy to talk about autonomy, it's easy to talk about trust. But then we have to show that we mean it when it comes to the problem. I would also just like to make Stortinget aware that we do not have to wait until 2021 to work with the mentoring system. We don't even have to wait until the state budget for 2019 for our universities and colleges to work on the mentoring system. For now we have received this mentioned report – which I admit I have not read, I only have the magazine in it, because I got it quite recently. But the first two sentences are as follows: ‘The University of Bergen sees mentoring as an important tool in the further development of the quality of education in higher education. The University has therefore decided to establish mentoring arrangements for all students by 2019.» So when it comes to waiting for law enforcement to 2021, a lot is already happening, and we can cheer it up. Finally, I would like to comment a little on the challenge we faced with filming the exam. It is true that no proposal has been made, but both the Council of State and the Department are quite good to read. We've read the case. We have come to the conclusion that a majority at Stortinget wants the ministry to look into it, and, of course, the department should conscientiously follow up what the majority of people want. I also think it is gratifying that other parties also signal that this is something that is worth looking at. Then there are advantages, then there are disadvantages, then there are for-arguments and counter-arguments – but that's who we have to get, and we're going to do that job.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1912	It is reassuring to confirm that the government is following the wishes of Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1918	It's okay for the representative Marit Arnstad to come up and point out that you may not have confidence in everything about the university and higher education sectors. However, I believe that when we are dealing here today with two proposals that deal with whether the institutions in the sector themselves should be allowed to decide whether to have special admission requirements or not, whether we can be confident that they will implement a mentoring system or not, and whether, as was said here, we need the department to have overall governance with them, or that the Stortinge will actually adopt it by law – then there are two quite good examples of not showing confidence in the sector. Then you'll have to endure to hear it. When it comes to blood sugar, I might admit that it's getting time for food. It should have been lunch a long time ago, we started earlier than we were supposed to, so I'm going to promise to go and get filled up. But this isn't just about the lack of blood sugar.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1925	Now I am making a reservation that everything I say can be said in the affected because of the lack of blood sugar. I have difficulty in seeing that introducing a mentoring system for students will override the autonomy of institutions to the extent that it is said here. I think that is a weak argument against our proposal. I also hear that the Council of State is looking with light and light for arguments against the majority's proposal. Then it is a pity that the Council of State is wrong. She argued two arguments against the majority's proposal on mentoring. The first was that the government's plan was to present changes to the university and higher education law in 2021, and that she would not necessarily wait until working with a mentoring system. That's great. There is nothing in the proposal of the majority to prevent the Council of State from submitting a proposal on mentoring at the discretion of the Council of State itself. But the proposal says that the review of the legislation is an opportunity to address a mentoring system. If the Council of State wishes to submit a mentoring scheme before 2021, nothing is better than that. Secondly, there is no point in the decision to promote this in the form of law. It says that we ask the government to propose how to introduce a professional mentoring scheme for all students, and then the government itself chooses the form in which it should take place. Then I hope we've cleared it out of the way. Then I want to say that what shows the difference between the majority and the minority in the matter of mentoring is what the representative Marianne Synnes said that they want the government to make a recommendation on how institutions can best follow up their students. It's fine. We can vote in favour of the Left proposal on behalf of the government parties, but the difference is that where the government parties will provide a description of how the mentoring system can be introduced, the majority wants a concrete government proposal on how to ensure that all students at the bachelor level have a mentoring system. In the end, when the representative Kristensen says that inequality in the view of admission requirements in higher education means that you have completely different world views, you live on a terribly small planet.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1938	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox It may have to do with blood sugar.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1954	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, a reply be given to the comments of members of the Government and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1963	I'm recording that the education committee is struggling with the blood sugar. The finance committee has run out of time, because we have many major issues, both the revised national budget and a number of other issues. Nevertheless, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation on this and other matters in a hectic interview. In connection with this proposition, we do an overarching review of the Norwegian value and exchange law, collect the rules of the Securities Trading Act and abolish the stock exchange law. MiFID II and MiFIR give us new rules on trade in financial instruments. With this, we are expanding and passing on the concerns underlying the MiFID. With MiFID II, there was regulation of data reporting in the form of permission requirements for providers of this type of service. Because the investor relies on access to trade information to have confidence in both the market and pricing, this is positive. There are stricter rules on remuneration from non-clients, on what kind of information all investors and small savers are entitled to, and not least on the pay and knowledge of employees. For me, it is particularly important that Norwegian investors get enough information, and that their consultants have a high level of knowledge. We've seen a lot of examples of investment advice that's gone wrong. An example is the so-called Røeggen sac, which shocked many. A small saver from Averøy on Nordmøre received poor investment advice and later won against DNB in Högsterett. Fortunately, it has been a huge development when it comes to both regulation and industry's post-consciousness, but it is equally important to continue the work with legislation that supports consumers. MiFID II should strengthen investor protection, including: in the introduction of new requirements for product management and product knowledge in enterprises, and one shall also reinforce the process of customer ownership assessment. I found it very positive – and also a strong signal that is now being sent – that the rights of use in the Securities Trading Act are being changed, so that it is clear and clear that investor protection is a purpose of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1976	I guess we'll wear some sugar in the finance committee, too, but we'll get back to that. In this case, it is incredibly important to also establish some principles regarding how the Storting should deal with matters that have been raised by the government. Paragraph 49 of the Basic Law states: ‘The people exercise the legislative power through the Storting.’ The principle of the distribution of power is a fundamental principle, not only in the Constitution, but in Norwegian democracy. Now we have a situation where the government has implemented the content of the MiFID Directive and the MiFID Regulation in Norwegian law without involving the Stortinget, and then presents a comprehensive case with proposals for legislative changes, but where the material content has already been implemented. This is extremely problematic. Therefore, we propose to ask for an independent legal assessment of whether the implementation of MiFID II and MiFIR before treatment in Stortinget is contrary to the intention of the Constitution § 49. The rapid introduction of this legislation is not only problematic with regard to the Constitution, it also came as a surprise to business. As late as 29 August last year, DNB’s assessment was that the legislation was unlikely to be implemented in July of this year, perhaps not until 2019. So, on 9 November last year, the Financial Supervisory Authority came up with a regulation for a so-called minimum solution. A few weeks later, on December 4, the same regulation was repealed. Instead, someone came with a new regulation, without any ordinary consultation, and where the regulation was to be implemented a few weeks later. This is a particularly problematic way of dealing with the business life affected, but it is also a major problem for Norwegian democracy. The centre party sees no reason why third-country undertakings should be given less restrictive conditions than they are obliged to under the new directive, and we therefore make proposals in line with that. Secondly, we believe that one should use the space for action we have under the directive to impose stricter requirements on the basis of consumer interests, and we should use this to prohibit so-called return commissions, such as. The Consumer Council has been extremely concerned. I would like to bring up the suggestions that the Central Party is included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1994	The representative of Sigbjørn Gülsvik has addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e1999	The Labour Party joins the proposed amendments to the Securities Trading Act, the Financial Undertakings Act and the Financial Group Act and the repeal of the Law on Regulated Markets, the Stock Exchange Act. The working party is pleased that a regulatory framework is in place to increase transparency and investor protection in securities trading. For the Workers' Party, it is important that the Storting now adopts a regulatory home, so that the government can prohibit the return commission, if necessary. We do not yet want to introduce a ban on return commission, but we stress that, in the view of the Labour Party members, a regulatory home will impose on the government and the Ministry a responsibility to follow up on the market and use the home to intervene, if we see trends in the use of return commissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e2004	In the bill, the government proposes amendments to the Securities Trading Act and repealing the Stock Exchange Act. The aim is an overall review of the Norwegian Securities and Exchange Code. In 2014, new EU securities market legislation was adopted in the form of a securities market directive, referred to as MiFID II, and a securities market regulation, referred to as MiFIR. The Directive and the Regulation applied in the EU from January 2018 but has not yet been incorporated into the EEA Agreement. An consent proposal will be submitted to the Stortinget later. MiFID II is based on MiFID I from 2004. A central objective of MiFID II is to increase transparency in the trading of financial instruments, to provide a better and more efficient market and to avoid risks building up in the hidden. Trade which took place before outside the trading venues shall now be closed into transparent trading venues with information on orders and transactions. Another key objective is to strengthen investor protection. Among other things, investment firms are subject to increased requirements for information to clients and the process for the authorisation of products before they are sold. Increased requirements are also introduced for the assessment of suitability and access to return commissions is restricted. A total prohibition of return commission, proposed by the minority of the Committee, could have disproportionate negative effects on the distribution of unit trusts and other suitable savings products to non-professional investors. Furthermore, it will be able to strengthen the competitive position of the large banking groups at the expense of other actors without their own management and distribution. A regulatory helmet has been proposed that can be used if there is a need for further tightening for specific products or markets. Rules consistent with the amendments made by MiFID II or MiFIR were laid down in December 2017 in the Regulation of the Financial Supervisory Authority based on the applicable Securities Trading Act and Exchange Law. This was central to homogeneous legal application in the EEA and continued access to the internal market for Norwegian investment firms, thereby providing a well-functioning Norwegian securities and capital market and effective access to capital for Norwegian business. Although rules of national law complying with MiFID II and MiFIR are already in place, there is a need for an overall review of the legislation aimed at improving the structure and making the new rules more accessible. There is also a need to decide on national choices after MiFID II. It is proposed to repeal the Stock Exchange Act to bring together all provisions relating to trading venues in the Securities Trading Act. With the implementation of rules consistent with MiFID II and MiFIR and other amendments proposed in this proposition, we will have up-to-date, timely securities market legislation to address weaknesses identified during the financial crisis, with increased protection for investors and improved transparency in the marketplaces, and a regulatory and regulatory structure adapted to the forthcoming EEA legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e2025	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e2030	For the introduction of the new legislation, which came very surprising to the industry: on 5 December last year, following the introduction of the new regulation, PricewaterhouseCoopers writes: ‘The financial supervision has communicated orally to the industry in recent months on a number of occasions that MiFID II will not be introduced from the turn of the year and today’s press release came as a big surprise.’ They continue to write: ‘The legal situation from New Year is becoming quite unusual. The current Securities Trading Act and its associated regulations will remain in force, as will the Stock Exchange Act. At the same time, two new regulations apply: [[...]] One of the problems they face, among others: refers to, is how to adapt in such a short time and that, for example: may result in Norwegian undertakings not being able to declare themselves to be ‘compliant’ with the applicable national legislation vis-à-vis international partners. Does the Minister of Finance see problems with this introduction?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e2045	I can assure the representative, Gülsvik, that I have been very busy caring for the interests of the Norwegian business community in handling this matter. There has also been a demanding process on the EU side in this respect. It has been important for me to provide the best possible basis for dealing with this matter, so that we have the best possible connection to this market, which is so important to our own financial institutions. I believe that we have done this in a good way. I do not think there is any reason for the concerns expressed by the representative Gülsvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e2052	So here I refer to how the market actors themselves describe how surprising the decision was. First, there was a new regulation from the Financial Supervisory Authority, which came on a minimum solution last November. Then came a new regulation to replace it in December, at short notice without prior ordinary consultation, and totally surprising to those who would live with this legislation. Does not the Minister of Finance in retrospect see that one could have handled this process in a better way?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e2058	No, I mean we couldn't do that. I believe we have dealt with it as well as we could with the assumptions we have had on the occasion of the case. I can assure you that we are in constant and close contact with the market players in these matters, because they are important. There has been, as I said, considerable uncertainty about the implementation of many of these issues by the European Union, and it has been important for us with regard to the internal market to ensure that we follow this as closely as possible from the Norwegian side, so that we do not create uncertainty about market access.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e2065	Creating predictability is also about providing the actors affected by the legislation with sufficient time both in relation to information on when to introduce this new legislation and what will be the content of the legislation. But to the other topic that I raised in my question, namely the relationship with the Stortinget. So here's a regulatory change, and then one comes after another with a proposition that has both changes to the Securities Trading Act and eliminates the Stock Exchange Act. One takes it in a sequence where the material changes are first implemented, and then one comes to the Storing with the matter. Wouldn't it make sense, especially in the light of the provisions of the Constitution, to do it in the opposite order?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e2072	First of all, the first comment. I believe that what is important in terms of predictability is to ensure market access. Had the government not dealt with this matter, the market players could have lost market access, and it would have been considerably more dramatic. So the question of the relationship to the Constitution. I think the minority is creating a problem that is not here. MiFID II is based on MiFID I, implemented by law. The changes from MiFID I to MiFID II and MiFIR were implemented by the Financial Supervisory Regulation in December 2017. The regulations were adopted by law.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e2079	So the chord change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e2097	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, a reply be given to replies from a member of the Government and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e2106	As the President referred to, this proposal by the Green Party and the representative Per Espen Stoknes on how to improve and simplify reporting to SMEs in terms of significant sustainability and societal impacts. The Committee has, in so far as it is divided into two, where a majority, the parties Right, the Party of Progress, the Party of the Centre, the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Red, do not choose to adopt the proposal, while the Parties of the Workers' Party, SV, the Green Party – and the Red Party, which are in both camps here – recommend that the Government explore a solution to the best and easiest way in which Norwegian enterprises can report on their significant impact on employment, equality and the external environment. The history of this matter, at least on the part of the majority, is that one decided in December last year to remove claims for annual report for small enterprises. To just drag the story back to the case that one also refers to in the setting, said the Accounting Law Committee in its time: ‘The annual report for small entities is often drawn up on the basis of example reports, i.e. it is considered to be infrequently adapted to the entity to which it relates. The committee regards the preparation of the annual report for small enterprises to a large extent as an obligation exercise, which does not provide information where the benefit exceeds the cost of its preparation.» As I see it, the Committee agrees that it is not necessarily that one disagrees with it, that one can support the removal of the annual reports, but that one should nevertheless work better for better reporting in important areas. The majority – of which the Christian People's Party is part – argue that we have just removed this requirement and that the Ministry of Food and Fisheries has calculated an annual savings of 700 million. kr related to the simplifications around it. We also show that this is not the case because one is exempted from the annual report, one is not exempt from the other requirements relating to, for example, equality and the environment to which it is referred. We have more faith in other targeted instruments, such as: the eco-fired tower system. Then we also believe that it is important to gain experience of the simplifications that have been made before any other change is adopted. So here the majority is clear that one supports the intention to improve the emissions or sustainability or gender equality of small enterprises, but one believes that one should not make changes now and that one should get back to this at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e2124	I want to start by commending the proposer to focus on an important theme: how Norway can still be ahead of the job, equality and the external environment. This is what we in the Workers' Party are concerned about, which was also clarified when we supported the decision to remove the Annual Report for Small Enterprises in December. It was under the authority of the continuation of the social responsibility reporting requirement. Debureaucratisation and simplification are important for business in general and especially for small businesses. I still think it was right to remove the requirement of annual reporting for small companies, and this provided in a good way the headship we had in the Labour Party. There is no doubt that it is possible to report in a simpler and less burdensome way. We are behind proposal No. 1, the government just needs to figure out and recommend how to do this better and make it easier. In the notes we have shown you the use of the app or footnote. Nor is there any doubt that when the majority decided on 21 June last year to strengthen the obligation to distribute, the intention was that the obligation should cover all the activities that were required at the time of the decision, i.e. those that are now no longer required to prepare an annual report. It is important to bear in mind that regardless of reporting obligations or not, the small businesses are responsible under the work environment law, the equality law, the pollution law, etc. The requirements of these laws mean that small enterprises still need to have an active and critical attitude to how enterprises affect employment, equality and the external environment. The reporting obligation during the annual reporting period did not function properly, including: because the criterion of materiality was unclear. Inadequate reporting also did not provide any kind of consequences. At the same time, the reporting provided valuable statistics and potential for the public to check that Norwegian enterprises are working for greater equality, better working environment and also for less impact on the external environment. The fact that Norwegian companies are in the forefront is, in fact, a competitive advantage, but this reporting must be carried out in a simple and small way. As I said, that is exactly what we are asking for in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e2135	For the right, it is important that Norwegian entrepreneurs and businesses spend more time creating jobs and values, and less on completing forms. As a result, since 2013, the government has implemented simplifications that save companies for well over 10 billion annually. kr. Together with the Christian People's Party, we're going to bring down the costs even more. Well-being doesn't come of itself, and we have to do that engaged people who get up in the morning to contribute, spend their time on what's important: creating more, not taxing and reporting more. Nine out of ten enterprises are small enterprises. As the growth rises and new jobs are created, they have a lot of credit. They are the backbone of the Norwegian economy, the everyday heroes that keep Norway going. Right will let the small businesses flourish. Last year, the government cleared up the Accounting Act so that they no longer have to report annual reports to the government. It saves them 700 million. kr and free time to create values. That's good. What's not good is that the Workers' Party, the Green Party and the Left will now reintroduce the paper mill, just a few months after we took it away. It is justified that several reports to the State are important for the environment. But I still have the benefit of seeing a standardised paper report save the world. What matters is the clear responsibility of the companies after, among other things. the environmental protection law, the equal opportunities law and the pollution law. Norwegian enterprises have and shall have an active attitude to how they affect the environment and society around them, including in the future. What matters is concrete action, not bureaucratic symbolism. And with the right in government, Norwegian entrepreneurs and businesses will spend less time filling out forms and more energy to create jobs and values. This is an important part of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e2152	When the Storting decided that small enterprises do not need to produce an annual report, it was to give a little less administrative work to all the thousands of executives who are often alone or are one of the few employees of their own small enterprises. This is the sole proprietor who is himself out in production, who is out selling his services, who runs out his goods to the customer, or who sits behind the levers in his own excavator, to create a living for himself and others. Common to all, most of them, is that they're busy delivering good services and making sure they get a good reputation. These are companies that do not spend large sums on advertising or marketing, but that get new jobs and more customers because they do a good job. Everyone understands that small companies that do not care about laws and regulations or that violate standards or expectations made by customers will not be able to operate in the market. Although these are small companies, it is often the responsibility of sports teams, youth teams, swimming clubs or music clubs all over the country. Profit is a result of laborious work, where the company is financially secured over time by building stone, day after day. These are not large companies that rely on internal reporting up in a system or in weekly reporting meetings to find that they are on the right side of the law. Here, the number of employees is often so few that employee interviews are conducted on a daily basis, and deviations are corrected on an ongoing basis. The proposal promoted by the minority may not, in isolation, be what it would take the most time to report, but we should remember that for each single report, for every single form, for every hour these companies do not spend on bureaucracy and paperwork, more time and more opportunities will be given to enable businesses to develop, get a better economy and thus also be better able to take positive action for both the working environment and the community, and become even more socially useful. For the Progress Party, the aim is that businesses should spend even less time reporting and receive even fewer forms that they need to fill in. The main focus of Norwegian jobs is in small and medium-sized enterprises, spread across the country, and the aim must be to maximise the time they need to develop further, in order to create as many safe and good jobs as possible. Then the proposal of the Green Party, the Working Party, SV and Red, on even more reporting, is not the right way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e2165	It is of particular importance that Norwegian society has clear driving rules and clear laws and rules relating to the protection of both workers’ rights, the working environment and gender equality, to environmental care, to the fight against pollution and to contributing to positive developments in both the environment and the climate. But this case is not about changed rules in Norwegian society related to these issues. It is about changing reporting for small and medium-sized enterprises in the country. The same obligations will continue to apply today, under the Labour Environment Act, the Equality Act and the Pollution Act. Small and medium-sized enterprises, like other enterprises and other actors in Norwegian society, are of course obliged to comply with Norwegian law and to comply with the provisions of both law and regulation. Similarly, it obviously has consequences for small and medium-sized enterprises and other actors in Norwegian society if one does not comply with Norwegian law, if one does not comply with its obligations under legislation adopted by the Stortinget or under government regulations. There may be consequences if a person is subject to supervision, and there may be significant consequences for businesses if one does not comply with Norwegian law. Of course, a Norwegian law should be complied with, but this case is, as I said, about the reporting requirements to be met by the companies. It was particularly sensible to remove the requirement for an annual report for small and medium-sized enterprises – a saving potential identified by the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries of 700 million. kr annually. In addition, it gives a completely different motivation, I think, too many entrepreneurs to help create jobs and contribute to growth when one can use more of its capacity to both create values and focus on following the laws that are, instead of focusing on ever-increasing demands for reporting. When representatives from the government parties proudly demonstrate that a form and requirements for reporting have been removed during the government period, one could perhaps include in the accounts the areas where new forms, new rules and new instructions have become necessary. In this case, it is not about the fact that there can be no practical solutions for how to report, but it is about what is actually significant issues to report in this context, which will create more work in Norwegian bureaucracy in defining it, but also for the companies that will follow it next time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e2176	I have to admit that it is with a certain willingness that I read both the comments of the majority in this position and listen to the comments we have heard now. There is incredibly little willingness to look for good solutions for SMEs, which are, after all, the vast majority of enterprises, to report significant impacts on employment, gender equality and the external environment. There is broad consensus here that such reporting should not be unreasonably bureaucratic or extensive. But the majority are not interested in looking at alternative solutions, and it surprises me. It is also fascinating to see the turnaround that the Left, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party have done in this matter, those who last year supported a continuation of the obligation to make presentations, a proposal that the Left promoted. This is fully undermined by the decision of the members of the Financial Committee of these parties during the examination of the matter of amendments to the Accounting Act. In response to SV’s votes, the size decided to remove the accounting obligation for the vast majority of small and medium-sized enterprises. So the majority of the population has decided to drastically weaken the toolbox to ensure better environment, equality and working conditions. You can wonder if one hand knows what the other hand is doing. This reporting is often the only opportunity for businesses to go through the questions we are talking about now. The fact that many companies have dealt with this superficially and summarily is not an argument for removing the requirements; it is an argument for improving the legislation and making it easier and more useful to report, as proposed here. At that time, it is quite surprising that the decision to remove the requirement for an annual report was adopted without one having sufficiently investigated and discussed the societal implications of these proposals. That means we don't know how it's going to turn out a little bit in the long term. So instead of a leading commodity-approaching, the bulk of the population has a 'hope is going well' approach. It is similarly eye-catching that the majority is completely uninterested in how this could have been reported in a simpler way. This means that the majority of the population is completely uninterested and unaccompanied in whether Norwegian enterprises deliver on equality, employment and the environment. The majority of the population won't know. The majority write in the statement that companies can be given more support, support for innovation and environmental measures, and, in particular, better guidance for businesses. So one wants to reduce bureaucracy in one place, but it seems quite unproblematic to increase bureaucracy in the public sector. It is also clearly completely uncritical to give a lot of money to businesses without requiring a minimum of reporting on corporate social responsibility. We need more accountability and transparency in business – not less.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e2191	I would also like to make a few brief comments on this proposal by the Greens, which I think is good in many ways because it shows that the Greens are also concerned with simplification. Then it is important to point out that since 2013, we have carried out savings for Norwegian business of more than 10 billion. kr through just simplification. An example of the government's efforts to simplify has been the decision to remove requirements for annual reports for small enterprises. Only this proposal, as several representatives have already pointed out correctly, has a savings potential of 700 million. kr. In general, there is little evidence that the left side is concerned with simplification, but it is good that the Greens show interest in the block-independent Environment Party. I noticed that SV asked questions about the position of the left in this case. I just want to say that SV can take it easy, because even a representative of the family and culture committee can come to the pulpit and talk about this proposal, precisely because we know what the different hands are doing in the Left's pool. The government is also now working with the assessment of the design of the employer's duty of activity and presentation, and I hope that the opposition and the Green Party will also be able to deliver in that process, be able to support some good proposals and make something other than a representative proposal that I respectfully believe is without a single new idea of simplification. There are now a number of new simplification measures on the table because our government prioritises it, and because it's good for our green business. We are not yet in the process of simplifying and improving the conditions for Norwegian small and medium-sized enterprises, but we have managed to simplify by 10 billion. kr since 2013, we will manage some further simplifications towards 2021. And then it's good to know that the Green Party has also suddenly become so concerned about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e2206	The main message in the committee's position is to reject the proposal because we're going to simplify by removing reporting requirements: social responsibility is important, but companies are going to let go of it, at least annually, and with this, the majority of people not only choose to be anti-social responsibility, they're also anti-market, anti-knowledge, anti-competitiveness and anti-profit, as well as anti-ethical. The Ministry of Finance's replies and the majority's attitude testify to a great lack of knowledge about recent economic research. Oxford University, together with Arabesque, a «think tank», conducted a few years ago a «review» of 200 scientific studies, a so-called meta-study entitled From the Stockholder to the Stakeholder and concluded that 180 out of 200 studies showed a strong and clear link between good sustainability reporting and improved reputation, improved productivity and improved risk management. Other countries are therefore stepping up, although Norway is going the opposite way. To me, this is a little incomprehensible. In the academy, the data base, method and robustness of the findings are used as a basis for conclusion and recommendation, but here, in policy, flock membership and alliances are far beyond knowledge and data. Anti-knowledge is that research is smoothly ignored as long as it can be associated with proposals promoted by another party, the ‘not-invented here syndrome’, as it is called in the strategy language, which has avoided taking in new ideas and knowledge because someone other than yourself has promoted it. Yes, the Norwegian old reporting system was rigid and out of date. Yes, it was high time to do something about it. Then it should be obvious that you improved it. Instead, in December, the government chose to pull out the baby, the responsibility for society, with the bath water, the desire for simplification. And with that, you're using simplification to do pre-dominate. The awareness and involvement of employees in equality, well-being and the external environment are highly productivity-enhancing. It's up to 16 pst. improvement of productivity in some studies. It is now left to each small enterprise’s own initiative to do so instead of designing a user-friendly, computer-based and functional reporting system, for example. a simple app adapted to the size and industry of the holding. So finally: Congratulations to the Right, the Advance Party and the Left, which for the second time in six months has facilitated less productivity, weaker reputation and poorer risk management in Norwegian companies! And then left, then, that's going to promote a green shift by releasing 95 pst. by the entities reporting resource responsibilities. And to the Christian People's Party, the Value Party, which in practice prioritises short-term capital before social responsibility: Congratulations! That's how treatment can make me happy that it's soon summer, so I can get out of the policy and get back to the academy. I refer to the proposal that the Greens are behind with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e2221	The representative Per Espen Stoknes then mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e2227	By Law of 15 December 2017, the Stortinge adopted, inter alia: the obligation under the Accounting Act to draw up an annual report shall no longer apply to so-called small undertakings. I am pleased that a large majority in Stortinget supported the government's proposals. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries has estimated that the exemption in question can provide a potential annual savings of more than 700 million. NOK for the sole proprietor, which is a significant savings. I believe that the annual report for many small enterprises has often been marked by an obligation exercise and that standard wording is often used. I share the opinion of the Accounting Act Committee that requirements for mention of a relationship, such as: equality and the environment, not necessarily of particular importance for the practical follow-up of the situation. A majority of the Committee is also of that opinion. I also believe that the preparation of the annual report for small enterprises often does not provide information that defends costs. The representative of Stoknes, in his proposal, argues that the old reporting requirements have not worked as intended, should not be an argument for their complete elimination. The minority of the Committee believes that instead it should look at ways of improving and simplifying legislation, with better information on how the reporting should be implemented. The legislative amendment implemented will reduce the financial and administrative burden on reportable small enterprises. It is government's policy to continue work on business simplification, with particular emphasis on small and medium-sized enterprises. Small enterprises are crucial for value creation, jobs and activity throughout the country. It is important, as expressed by the majority of the Committee, to facilitate, inter alia: initiative and creativity. Although small enterprises will no longer be required to draw up and publish an annual report, they obviously have a responsibility after, among other things. the Environmental Protection Act and the Gender Equality Act. The requirements of such laws require all enterprises to have an active and critical view of how they affect society and the environment. Enterprises are also free to report on conditions they see as significant. I don't think we should just assume that rigid reporting requirements are the best way to make companies deal with society in a good way. I therefore believe, as a majority of the Committee, that we should now gain experience with the simplifications implemented in the Accounting Act, including: the obligation to draw up an annual report shall no longer apply to small undertakings. There is no time to introduce new reporting requirements now.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e2244	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e2249	In its statement, the Council of State stresses that she is concerned with business simplification and the government has set up a regulatory board to help implement these simplifications in a positive way for business. Based on the annual report of the 2017 Board of Directors, the Ministry of Finance has been tested in ten regulations. Of the ten, only three have received the green light, four have received the yellow light, and three have received the red light. Is the Council satisfied with the way her department simplifies, when the Council of Ministers does not approve of the work carried out?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e2254	I have recorded that there has been a debate in the media in the last – today, at least – about the Council of Rules, and I think we have to take that debate in a different context than this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e2259	I must then be allowed to ask, because this matter is essentially about simplification, and then I think it is something simple. I have not followed the debate today, but I checked the annual report to the Board of Governors a while ago, and it appears that seven out of ten regulations that have passed the Minister of Finance's office have not been passed by the Board of Governors. And that had to be a nice opportunity to say that maybe you could improve in that area and get better at simplifications.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e2264	I'd love to! I am consistently concerned that we need to simplify where we can, and that we need to improve where we can, but at the same time it is also that we have other considerations to take into account through some regulations and regulations. Sometimes these considerations conflict with each other. Sometimes there are other reasons we should take care of, but I can promise the representative Aasrud that my commitment to simplification and improvement is strong.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e2269	Several developments are seen, both nationally and internationally — perhaps particularly internationally — where financial investors see greater attention being paid to the sustainability of companies, the environment, climate and society efforts, and the emphasis on and reporting on them. Among other things, the oil fund, which we are going to discuss on another occasion, is concerned with reporting related to climate risk. So I mean, here you go a few steps back. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State whether this simplification work has looked at developments that are taking place internationally in relation to reporting on sustainability and social responsibility, and at all events had some interest in whether there are simpler ways of implementing reporting for Norwegian enterprises than the so-called rigid reporting requirements to which the Council of State referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e2276	I am more than happy to engage in dialogue with the representative Kaski and others on how to report in simpler ways. But it is one thing that governments are going to oblige small and medium-sized enterprises to report on, another is what they themselves want to report on, based on requirements they meet from different investor environments around. This is somewhat the same as the representative Stoknes was in his post, that much of this finds its solution in the market, between the companies and the investors. It's not that all this solves itself just by the authorities finding a way to regulate it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e2281	90 pst. the studies show that high sustainability standards provide lower capital costs for companies. Good reporting on sustainability thus lowers the cost of capital for companies. 88 pst. the studies show that a solid sustainability approach provides higher productivity for companies. If sustainability reporting is to be meaningful, it must be comparable from one company to another. If you leave it all the way to the market, different standards will make this not useful, either for the company's management or for the investors. What is the State Council's comment that there is such a strong link between good sustainability reporting and cost of capital and productivity?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e2286	I noticed the post of the representative Stoknes. I also noticed that his conclusion was that if the government, the big crowd and others think this is an unnecessary way of reporting, we have simply misunderstood something, we are acting against better knowledge, and we are not doing what is in the interests of the companies. I disagree with that approach. I sincerely believe that if the company itself believes that they can reduce its costs, get better access to capital by reporting on different objectives, then they do. It makes them completely independent of the minimum requirements they are required by the authorities. What we've been working on is facilitating regulatory simplification, but that doesn't prevent companies from spreading out, informing about what kind of work they're doing, whether it's sustainability or other things. And I'm sure a lot of companies do too.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e2292	Could it be the case that the Council of State considers that, if the authorities leave to engage, the invisible hand of the market will come up with well-functioning standards that will enable all companies to choose to use it?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e2298	I am convinced that this is a limit to politics. I think we politicians are going to interfere where it's necessary and right for us to do it, and then we're going to refrain from doing it where it's not necessary. It is not that the authorities can fix everything for everyone at any time. It is rather the opposite that much finds its solution in the market between the actors. I guess I really feel that the way the representative Stoknes approaches this, makes the companies a little discredited, that they can't do this even without a very intrusive activity on the part of the authorities. I don't believe anything in it. I think the companies are acting in their own interest, and if it's in their own interest to get these questions out clearly, they're going to do it. If not, they may lose market opening in given situations.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e2303	So the chord change is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e2310	I drew myself because it was like a massive wall from the government parties here in order to construct a very artificial contrast between paper and analysis on one side and action and profit on the other. The representative Stokkebø is standing here saying, of course, things like he's never seen a standardised paper report save the world. No, of course I don't either. I don't understand what that statement has to do with the proposal we're discussing. It seems that if you just spend less time on forms and more time on doing, it comes to acting and working and values of itself. The problem is – I’ve been the business manager myself, I’ve been the advisor to many of Norway’s big companies, I’m also the investor myself, and I’ve never seen long-term value creation happen without good documentation, without budgeting and target management – that if you don’t know what goals you’re following, and prioritizing the goals, you know that at least you don’t get there. I fully agree with what the representatives of the Right, Left and Advance Party say – yes, small companies are fantastic. They keep the wheels going in Norway, they create jobs, they support sports, they participate in the community – it's absolutely amazing. But what's the problem here is that there's a contradiction between the value creation of small businesses on the one hand and the understanding of what you're doing on the other. What this is about is a strategic analysis that includes more than just financial results, a strategic analysis that can balance financial against social and ecological value dimensions. This is at full speed into international business. Yes, there are good international standards on the go, yes, there are many initiatives, but for companies this is mostly a youth. Then came the representative from the left and said it wasn't a single new idea. But then we have not read the proposal, because one of the new ideas that it says is that it should be developed, for example. an app — an app that makes it possible, based on the size and industry of the enterprise, to guide a fast through the most important, a materiality analysis, ‘materiality analysis’. So a consciousness of how to do that has to be evidence-based and not based on a contempt for systematic reflection, for annual summaries and a strategic priority of different goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e2321	Now I think it's the Green Party representative trying to sign the picture. When in my post I mentioned earlier that standard reporting has never saved the world – as far as I can see, at least – it was precisely with the background of the feedback I get when I am out talking to Norwegian companies. I last talked to a company the other day, an accounting company that helps many small businesses to implement this annual reporting, which could report that it was largely standard reporting, which did not lead to significant improvements for the environment and better corporate societal impact. This proposal to remove the annual report is precisely evidence-based; it is due to an investigation. The representative argues that this is not evidence-based – then he can go back and look at the investigation that underlies these changes we are now making. With the right in government, we're going to reduce red tape, we're going to make sure that companies spend more time on job creation and values and less on form completion. That is why I am very, very happy that it was precisely this collaboration that won the election in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e2332	The representative Per Espen Stoknes has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e2337	I just have to end by saying that it was funny to hear the representative Stokkebø reproduce the same contradiction, that useless paper reporting on the one hand stands in contrast to the value creation of real companies on the other. There's no doubt, if you read the Document 8 proposal, that the system we had didn't work. There were questions about putting in place, in the light of new knowledge, how societal responsibility reporting can easily be involved in the strategic operation of businesses, and there is something quite different than cutting down companies with increasing reporting burdens over time. This is a matter of making a materiality analysis, that is, of helping you to understand the factors that make it essential for the company to be obsessive in its day-to-day operations. That's what it's all about, not making more bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e2344	The representative, Mr Stokkebø, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e2349	A report here and a report there -- there will be many reports of it. It's easy to say that you can introduce a little more reporting here, it doesn't hurt, but when you add up, the burden becomes big. That is why I am pleased that we have reduced the reporting burden. "Many streams make a big fool" is what it's called. This government is at least going the right way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e2354	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e2366	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting. In Case No. 1 no voting theme exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e2438	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e2448	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e2457	During the debate, Mr Andersen presented five proposals on behalf of the Socialist Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to follow up the proposals in NOU 2011:14 Better integration – Objectives, strategies, actions, including a ten-year effort to get more people to work.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that the introduction system can be linked to vocational training and adult training, so that secondary vocational training can be started and completed.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the university and higher education sectors offer relevant and truly qualifying complementary education services to immigrants with completed or commenced higher education, in line with the recommendations of NOU 2017:2.’; Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to revise the introduction system in order to include and complete all basic qualification within the scheme and to adapt the legislation in order to ensure the necessary flexibility in terms of length.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to introduce quality criteria for language training in the introduction programme and in the Norwegian system of law and duty and social knowledge for adults’.» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e2869	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e2879	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e2911	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e2939	A total of 17 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-5, by Martin Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 6-11, by Martin Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 12, from Marit Knutsdatter Strand on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 13 and 14, from Marit Knutsdatter Strand on behalf of the Center Party proposal No 15, from Hans Fredrik Grövan on behalf of the Christian People's Party the proposals No 16 and 17, from Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red There is a vote on proposal No. 16 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit a financing plan for the 2019 government budget for extending the Staff Code to cover the entire opening hours of the kindergarten and ensuring that the municipalities are compensated for additional costs.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e2977	There is a vote on proposal No. 17 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests that any proposal for additional appropriations for the financing of the Staff Code be reserved for non-profit-making and municipal kindergartens or otherwise ensures that kindergartens and kindergartens with lower staff and large profits are not given additional appropriations.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e2994	There is a vote on proposal No. 14 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to postpone the implementation of the Staff Regulations until 1 August 2019. A transitional scheme for private kindergartens is in place until 2020.»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e3009	There is a vote on proposal No. 13 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to carry out a full cost analysis and return to Stortinget in the context of the State budget for 2019, with proposals ensuring that the educational and staffing standards are fully financed at municipal level upon entry into force.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e3026	There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a transitional scheme for private kindergartens, in particular for small and ideal kindergartens, up to 2020, and for municipalities to be compensated so that they are better able to implement the changes from the autumn of 2018.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e3044	There is a vote on proposal No. 15, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to return to the State budget for 2019 with a plan for the implementation of the Staff Code which covers the additional costs of both public and private kindergarten owners and ensures that the norm is met in all kindergartens during the transitional period until 1 August 2019. The plan shall be established with a view to a fair distribution between municipalities and a sustainable economy in the small private kindergartens through the introduction of the norm.’;» The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e3061	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e3066	So let's do the voting again.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e3078	There is a vote on proposal No. 8, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the municipalities more specifically to comply with the norm by increasing existing posts and by taking measures to increase the proportion of full-time jobs in the kindergarten sector.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e3095	President! I could not vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e3100	So let's do the voting again.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e3112	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6 and 9-11, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess the introduction of several sanctions in the event of a breach of the Children’s Court Act and the Staff Regulations, in addition to the temporary or permanent closure of the nursery.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks the Ministry to clarify the definition of the Children’s Hospital Act as ‘sufficient staffing for educational activities’, in order to ensure the real impact of the norm and to facilitate the supervision of municipalities and counties.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose measures to tighten up the absence of temporary employment in the event of absence.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government requests the introduction of a specific requirement for staffing for kindergartens with particularly long opening hours, such as opening hours of more than 10,5 hours per day.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e3147	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–5, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out an evaluation of the standard, which will be completed within two years of its entry into force at the latest, which will help municipalities and private owners make use of the norm according to their intention and provide a knowledge base to help determine what changes should be made, if any, to ensure that the standard becomes a good quality tool.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a new child care survey to update information on children’s residence in the nursery and when children are in kindergarten during the day of kindergarten, and to assess the need for changes in the standard of living associated with this.’; Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit a proposal for stepping up to require that 50 pst. by staff shall be kindergarten teachers and a minimum of 25 pst. must be a skilled worker.’;» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the requirement that apprentices cannot be used in basic care in kindergarten does not lead to a reduction in the intake of apprentices in the sector.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a review of the financing system for private and municipal kindergartens.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e3342	Alternatively, A § 18 and proposal No. 12, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 18 of the Barnenhagen Act is replaced by the following: § 18 Base crew: Manning must be sufficient to enable staff to carry out an adequate pedagogical activity. The kindergarten shall have at least one employee per three children when the children are under three years of age and one employee per six children when the children are over three years of age. Children shall be considered to be more than three years from August of the year in which they reach the age of three.» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e3365	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e3370	President! I also voted incorrectly.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e3375	It's hot in the hall. Maybe we all have to tighten up a little bit. So let's do the voting again.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e3389	It goes over the rest of capital A.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e3399	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e3409	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e3438	The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e3450	President! I didn't get any gravy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e3455	And then we're going to add it to the number of votes. The vote result shall be 64 votes in favour and 39 against. Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e3467	The Labour Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e3491	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e3510	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e3555	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Marianne Synnes on behalf of the Right, the Party of Advancement and the Left proposal No 2, from Grunde Almeland on behalf of Right, Party of Progress and Left There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The fifth paragraph of Sections 3 to 6 of the Law on Higher Education is replaced by the following: The Ministry may lay down special admission requirements in regulations where the implementation of the study so requires. [[5]] The Board of Universities and Universities may, in addition, lay down, in regulations, their own, more stringent, special admission requirements for individual studies where the implementation of the study so requires. Proposals for new admission requirements must be submitted at regular consultation and must be published no later than three years before the deadline for the application for the study in question expires. The Ministry may require institutions to coordinate their practices`.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e3583	I could not vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e3588	Then we'll register an extra voice here. There will then be 55 votes against the proposal and 49 votes in favour, and the proposal is therefore not accepted. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e4093	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e4103	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e4117	The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e4129	The President sees that there are so many people who have voted wrong, that we take the vote again. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e4143	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to the Government of the State Budget for 2019 with a statement on the follow-up to the study of the mentoring system in higher education and a description of how a mentoring system can be introduced in stages for Bachelor’s students and students in other parts of the study cycle.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e4162	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. That is the proposal No. 1-3, from Sigbjørn Gælsvik on behalf of the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The government asks the government to return to Stortinget in the autumn of 2019 with an independent legal assessment of whether the implementation of MiFID II and MiFIR before treatment in Stortinget is contrary to the intention of Grundlova § 49.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget as soon as possible and as late as autumn 2019 with a legislative proposal to amend the Securities Trading Act so that so-called third-country undertakings should not have better conditions in Norway than the requirements of MiFIR, nor should it be a regulatory secret to grant such conditions.’; Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to return to Stortinget as soon as possible and as late as autumn 2019 with a proposal to ban return commissions.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e7721	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e7731	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e7740	During the debate, Per Espen Stoknes put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and recommend solutions for the best and easiest way for Norwegian companies to report on their significant impacts on employment, equality and the external environment.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e7748	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Central Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e7760	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e7765	That's it. That's it. That is 64 votes against and 40 against. The proposal is therefore not accepted. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e7777	The Labour Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e7789	I could not vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e7794	At that time the Committee's position was approved by 63 votes to 41.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-31.ana.ud240e7808	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Before the meeting is cancelled, the president will be reminded of the start of tomorrow's meeting. 9th@item: inlistbox Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
