ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e27	Representatives of Gisle Meininger Saudland, Nicholas Wilkinson, Ingarill Olsen, Vetle Wang Soleim, Åsunn Lyngedal, Heidi Nordby Lunde, Øystein Langholm Hansen, Tore Storehaug, Cecilie Myrseth and Carl-Erik Grimstad, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The temporarily exempted alternate of Oslo, Per Espen Stoknes, has again taken up its seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e81	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e90	Today, the size must consider two representative proposals concerning soil protection and cereal storage. The Committee takes the view that both proposals for representatives, from the Centre Party and the Green Party respectively, are dealt with collectively in this matter. Adequate food availability is a central element of preparedness, and it is important to take care of the production base and soil resources. Norway has a shortage of food land, and an overall increase has set a target of gradually reducing annual redeployment to less than 4000 deches per year by 2020. The re-disposal of cultivated soil has shown a falling trend in recent years. In 2013, redispatch was the lowest since registration started in 1976. The half-way objectives of the Bondevik II Government, the Solberg Government's soil protection strategy, the work of the departments, the efforts of the county councillors and the training of elected representatives have produced results. The Jeleia platform also states that the soil protection strategy should be followed up. The government has implemented or is in the process of implementing all 17 measures of the soil protection strategy. Several ministries are actively working to contribute to the achievement of this goal. A good example is the focus on soil protection in the last submitted national transport plan. Under the Law on Planning and Building, municipalities have the most important tool for soil protection, and the right is concerned that local democracy should have real self-determination, and is confident that local politicians will take this responsibility. The government has followed up eight of the nine request decisions taken by the Stortinget in dealing with the government's soil protection strategy. The ninth request decision concerns the objective to be achieved by 2020. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance and the Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Soil policy targets, 4 000 deches per year, are set, and there is nothing in the proposals that tightens up the current legislation. This may indicate that the majority is satisfied with today's soil protection policy, which is based on a strategy adopted by an aggregate increase. As regards State cereals storage, the proposal in this case is that a case be submitted in 2019. It's a while ahead, and it's perhaps a little early to advance the outcome already now, as the Center Party does, according to the Nation. The proposal of the Centre Party was that this should be established as early as 2018. The reports of the Norwegian Institute of Agricultural Economic Research, NILF, conclude that the Norwegian value chains for cereals, flour and bakery products can manage the relevant risks. The Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness, DSB, has analysed supply failures for cereals. The DSB proposes that the Directorate of Agriculture be given the task of monitoring the risk of international shortages of cereals and feed materials. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food points out that the Directorate of Agriculture is responsible for managing the import protection of agricultural products, and as part of this responsibility, the Directorate follows the international market development of agricultural products. The Ministry will make it clear to the Directorate of Agriculture that the monitoring of the risk of international cereal and feed shortages will be part of this work. The conclusions of previous cereal storage cases in recent years are that no high-risk events have been identified for Norwegian food supply and that cereal storage is not a targeted and cost-effective measure to strengthen Norwegian food security. The reports show that different types of supply disruption may occur, but this is not expected to have a significant impact on food supply in Norway. Food safety in Norway is ensured through national production, trade and maintenance of the production base. Supply readiness in the food sector is based on the fact that both national production and imports can be maintained well on the road even in crises. A complete blockage from international markets over time is considered to be unrealistic. Norway is and will still be dependent on imported food, inputs, machinery and equipment. Norway is also in the lucky situation that we have a large maritime food sector. In addition to the professional approach in the NILF and DSB reports, cereal storage also has an ethical perspective. Should we, having a large seafood sector, clean water and a relatively safe food supply, set up a system that requires Norway to go into international markets and buy cereals that other countries can use for food, to leave it in stock in Norway? In a possible crisis in the world or in our areas, perhaps other and less well-off countries need the grain. Grain storage also has a high price. The government's agricultural administration has calculated that the price of a stock of approx. 100 000 tonnes, given a world market price of SEK 1.50 per kilogram, will cost nearly £0.5 billion. kr over a five-year period. What priority should be given to prioritying?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e115	Climate change and global security are changing, and it requires a practical policy from the Stortinget. It is the practical policy that the majority of the Business Committee points out when we are in favour of the stockpiling of food grain and ask the government to present a case to the Stortinget in 2019. Special food will be one of the important safety issues for both Norway and other countries in the coming years. Large parts of the world’s food production are occurring in areas that are becoming more dry. In 2010, we saw how drought in the Black Sea region of Ukraine had consequences for international trade in cereals, and we see similar examples in several places when crops vary or fail. The policy pursued by Ukraine in this area resulted, inter alia, in: increased bread prices in Egypt and North Africa and was a contributing cause of the so-called Arab Spring – with unrest, riots and instability for an entire region, which also affects the world today. The Swedish Defence Research Institute has presented a note analysing just how the world is changing, and how we see that countries by country are introducing measures to ensure their own population food in changing circumstances. Therefore, the question of food storage is a question of having a common insurance policy in Norway, a common insurance system that provides stability and food for our own inhabitants at a time when the climate is getting warmer, drier and where we have a major challenge to say with certainty how the safety image develops. During the first world war, Norway had no food shortages. It was also of great importance to people's access to food here in the country. A well-known picture from that period has been taken just a few hundred meters away from here, right next to the castle, where we see that you start growing up parts of the land outside the Castle Park. It illustrates how, in critical situations, opportunities are used to provide food in ways that were not previously thought necessary. During the Second World War, however, we had some grain in stock, and the first time was better in view of the food security of the population in Norway. This underlines the point of insurance. Just think about how relatively rare it is, for example. is in need of a fire insurance on a house. We can think back to our own families. How often have we heard of a house that has burned down — from the beginning of World War I to today’s date? It's probably not that often in our own families, but we still buy that fire insurance because we want to have the security if that happens. Of course, the majority of the Economic and Social Committee is of the opinion that we do not want the emergency storage to be necessary, but the costs of not having that security are too high if that is the case. The important principle is that we have to make sure that what we can't afford to lose, and we can't afford to lose the security of food. We in the Workers' Party want to combine the security of emergency storage with offensive grips to adapt Norwegian cereal production to a wetter climate, because this is the situation at home; while foreign production is going to be in areas that will become drier, Norwegian food production will meet a reality that gets wetter. This is why we see the need for Norwegian cereal producers to invest in cereals and have the opportunity to store cereals on the individual farm. There is a comprehensive policy that contributes to both jobs and safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e134	Should the representative make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e139	Yes, I'm addressing the suggestions that the Workers' Party is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e144	The representative then addressed the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e149	The centre party is very concerned about strengthening preparedness in Norway. Then we need more effort in more areas. Police, fire services, hospitals, defence, rescue services and preparedness for natural disasters are important elements of our total preparedness. Food readiness is also a very central part of our preparedness. We must quickly secure food in a crisis. Leading a fisheries policy and an agricultural policy that uses our resources effectively is an important part of total preparedness. In its proposal for a representative, the Central Party has put forward two issues to strengthen food preparedness: strengthening soil protection and stockpiling of cereals. These two issues have in common that there are no specific issues for agriculture. There are important issues for society. Soil protection is about taking care of soil resources. In a country with only 3 pst. cultivated land is already too much land under concrete and asphalt, lost forever. The center part will give the food soil a much stronger protection, and we are willing to use strong tools to achieve the goal. The challenge with the debate on soil protection following the adoption by the Stortinget of the soil protection strategy in 2014 is that the government party has entered into the discussion with a misconception of the realities. The government has claimed that they have been in the process of reaching the 2014 target of reducing disposal to 4000 units by 2020. The problem for the government is that redisposal in both 2015 and 2016 has been higher than in 2014, when the strategy was adopted. The right path has not been found. Therefore, it is good that the Storting in this setting takes a given with the creative storytelling to the Council of State. The centre party would like to make a number of proposals today, as we have in our representative proposal, but we still see it as very positive that we have got the majority in the committee to inform the government to come back with an up-to-date soil protection strategy in connection with the revised budget in May of this year. It will take time for the government to make better use of the measures. It will not least give organisations and others involved in soil protection time to record proposals for both government and magnificence. The center party is concerned that we can decide the matter before the summer. There's a hurry to tighten up soil protection. The centre party considers the soil resource as a national resource that should therefore be managed nationally. Local land management needs to take account of national soil protection objectives, and we need to put in place a tool to ensure this. The second proposal that has been put forward today is our proposal to establish the emergency storage of food grain. In view of the fact that the security situation, climate change and other developments have made it apparent that we have been more vulnerable, this is high time. The central party has been in charge of this since the government of Stoltenberg II proposed it in its last state budget. Unfortunately, the proposal was swept away by the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left after the government change. Now we've got multiples for this again, and that's good. There's one saying for the Center Party, that's been working a long time to get this through. For several years, the replies of the parties to the government have been on the table. For all its assessments, the government assumes that whatever happens in the world of war, disease, climate change or natural disasters, trade will go its way. At least it's naive. The centre party prefers us to be able to lead everything to the house to the first chance to establish emergency storage. It was not possible to get multiple numbers, but we are very pleased that the majority of the Stortinget now says that this important part of our preparedness will come into place. Preparedness is often about soldiers and powders, but without a safe food supply, we would not get too far. The government party does not do what is the main task of the state: to take care of the security and preparedness of the inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e168	Earth and sea are in many ways the basis for the existence of the population of Norway. How we manage the land and the sea in the long term determines how we as a nation will have it and how we will survive in the time that comes. That is why the proposal we are discussing today, of deep significance to the state of Norway and the Norwegian population, is the same as maritime issues are. Norway has a rather challenging starting point, only 3 pst. is surface-cultivated land. Inland land is what makes up these three percentages, and only 30 pst. of which it is possible to grow food grain on. So Norway's starting point is challenging, and the world is changing, as the Labour Party representative said: we see increased uncertainty. Climate change and environmental degradation continue, usually at a higher rate than previously predicted. All of this challenges these big resources we have. In that situation, we might say that soil protection is at best a problem in the city. In the worst case, it goes the wrong way. If we're going to reverse this development, if we're really going to strengthen these areas, we have to take care of the land we have, we have to strengthen it, and then we have to increase the use of Norwegian land resources. In addition, we have to have a standby in case things go wrong. And in the situation we are living today, with climate change, we know that things can go wrong more often and more often. In addition, we have an international security situation that seems to be worsening. For SV, it oversees the concreteisation of this image – one – to strengthen soil protection and – two – to increase the quality of the soil. Therefore, unfortunately, there is a minority, but a strong minority, which goes in here to increase carbon capture, that Norway should join France's initiative of 4 per million per 1000 decare in increasing carbon uptake in the earth. It might sound a little bit small, but we know that increasing carbon gives better quality on Earth. So one thing is to strengthen the protection of the earth, the other is to get more out of the earth, just to make it more adorable, of higher quality. It is crucial for the SV to convert agriculture, from an increasingly import-dependent food supply to a more self-sufficient agricultural policy — in short, to put the land into use, to introduce an agricultural policy where we use more of the land on the outskirts, where we have several small uses. It is Norway that has to go if we are to have a target of increased self-sufficiency. The issue we are dealing with today, where a multiple in many ways pushes the question into the revised national budget, I think it makes sense. We will then have a greater knowledge base to build this on, and there will be a greater basis for others to decide on new measures to strengthen the strategy for soil protection. We also have a multiple to establish a contingency plan for cereals. That's what we think is crucial. We must not be naive in the time we live in. We cannot say that, on the one hand, we must strengthen police, defence, etc. And highlight the insecurity we live in the world, but that in the food field we just have to dampen it all down and have a completely different entrance. We need to have a proper relationship with these questions. It is obvious that in Norway – with the small access we have to the area where it can grow grain – we need to take our relationship rules. There are no proposals that we in SV are behind alone, but we are therefore considering the proposal that the Central Party has made. In many ways we are in many of the proposals made by the Greens. For us, it has been important to provide for a multiple, so that we can move on and get a new round on this in the context of the revised national budget. So we're assessing whether maybe we should also – secondaryly – voice the proposals for the Greens' Greens' Environment Party. Our primary line here is to get a clear multiple that will actually reverse the evolution that we're part of now.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e187	In 2014, Left launched a proposal in Stortinget that led to the soil protection strategy we know today. That was ambitious goals, and we gave the government a clear order: by 2020, the re-disposal of cultivated land would be less than 4,000 jobs. This objective committed the government parties to the new government platform. To achieve the 2020 target, there is no need for new targets, new schemes and new investigations. We need to follow up on the soil protection strategy adopted in 2015. Unfortunately, today's opposition proposal in Stortinget helps to weaken the focus on the soil protection strategy and the redisposable target. The opposition wants an updated soil protection strategy presented in the context of the revised national budget. One might wonder what they need in addition to the soil protection strategy we have today, with an ambitious objective and clear task descriptions for municipalities, county councils and state. An update can quickly be at the expense of the re-disposal target for 2020. I understand the opposition's proposal as a concern for soil protection. It's a concern that signed parts. It's an engagement that I think is positive, but it's not achieved by adopting updates of existing goals. A minority also asks the government to consider joining France’s ‘4 per 1000 initiative’ and its consequences and return to the matter in the revised national budget in 2018. Such an assessment will once again be part of and distract us from the goal of the soil protection strategy that we have come to agree on in the 2015 soil protection strategy. If we're going to achieve the 2020 goal, we can't follow every tangent that the opposition wants to explore. We have to stick to our goal and focus on implementation. There are no other parties on the Storing with a greater focus on soil protection than Left. I am pleased that our government partners are involved in such a clear commitment to soil protection as what we have in the Jeløya platform. The new government platform was only completed a few weeks ago, and I now urge the government to have the freedom to deliver on its promise. The soil protection strategy shall be followed up during that period. I listened with interest to the representative Sandtrøen and the lecture he had on the story. I'm not so sure it was just the grain price in Ukraine that created the Arab spring. I think there were several connections at the same time. But that doesn't mean I don't agree that you should consider looking at a cereal stand. I think that makes sense, but I also think you have to use the time that needs to be. I also saw in today's nations – and I share some of the opinion here – that we have to make those assessments, but I think those assessments need to be seen in a slightly larger context. When we had the last rounds in the hall here last year about how important cereal soil is, there was a clear minority who wanted to reverse the channelling policy by weakening the best areas to drive grain. I think that's a paradox. The representative Knag County spoke about the quality of the earth. I agree. That's why the majority at that time were also willing to put even more money on the table in connection with ditching, because it's about quality on earth. It is important to look at several possible outputs in this regard. One thing that is particularly important at least when we talk about preparedness is that the Norwegian channelling policy must stand firm. We have to do grain production, cereal production, where we have the possibilities, and not go to battle against it. I also hope that the majority in this hall will not reverse, as they tried last year. Because it's also about preparedness. I agree with the representative Bjørke that it is not just about balls and powder – the preparedness is based on much more, including. food, such as cereals, but also other foodstuffs. That's why I think it's important to spend the time that's absolutely necessary on this, so that we get a case that's based on facts and not on so much else.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e208	Soil protection and cereal preparedness is about how we prepare for future crises and unrest. National food security can be said to be good in the short term and as long as geopolitical or climatic events do not affect global food production and trade. However, this is a condition that cannot be expected to persist for a longer period of time. Several global trends show that Norway too is likely to face increasing challenges in maintaining food security at current levels in the future. The world's population, which today accounts for some 7.6 billion people, is likely to pass 10 billion in the middle of the 2050s, according to United Nations forecasts. This population growth — together with a general increase in wealth and growth in the middle class of people-rich countries such as China and India — suggests that the UN Food Organisation (FAO) estimates that the world’s food production must actually double by 2050. Global warming due to increased greenhouse gas emissions will result in an average reduction of the world's crop of 2 pst over the same period. Every decade, according to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. Towards the end of the 21st century, the reduction in the world's crops could be 5 pst. every decade. In view of these forecasts, the Christian People's Party believes that soil protection and food security are among the main policy areas both nationally and globally. This means that the Christian People's Party believes that new instruments are needed to reduce the re-disposal of food soils and that we are putting in place the emergency storage of cereals. For the Christian People's Party, soil protection is about our generation responsibility. We need to manage our resources so that later generations can also make use of them. If we're building up food soil today, we're taking away future generations' ability to grow food on the same area. And with an increasing number of people in the world, this resource will only become more important and more important for every year that goes. Therefore, it is necessary that we meet the objective of reducing the re-disposal of food to 4000 covers annually. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that it is important that new instruments be evaluated, and we support the government's task to evaluate the proposals contained in the two existing representatives' proposals, as well as to make other proposals. At the same time, it is important that not all responsibility for soil protection is centralised with national authorities, as some of the proposals provide. We need strong national rules and leadership, but we must not get into a situation where we take responsibility away from the communities and local authorities. A one-sided centralization of responsibility, where soil protection becomes something one should engage in in Oslo, is not the right way to go. The Christian People's Party, on the other hand, believes that better interaction between local, regional and national authorities is necessary to reduce the re-disposal of food land. All levels of government are responsible for maintaining cultivated land. Local politicians, such as local planning authorities, must continue to contribute to the reduction of the re-disposal of cultivated land, while at the same time ensuring that local authorities are aware of their responsibilities through objections to plans where soil protection concerns are not adequately addressed. There is still a great potential to drive development without degradation of cultivated soil. Local planning authorities often find themselves in difficult balances when re-disposal of cultivated or arable land appears to be a prerequisite for carrying out the establishment of a business and housing. There is a continuing need for more awareness among local policymakers on soil protection and for action to be taken to increase competence. Climate change and population growth in the world reduce the scope for action in the future. We can't expect to lean on imports of food into a world where food production has to be doubled, and where arable land could be scarce. It is therefore necessary that we use the space for action in the next few years to get our own house in order on behalf of future generations. We have to make sure that we have food soil to grow food for our own people, and we need stockpiles of grain that can help us through crises. Therefore, in the light of long-term trends in climate change and global population growth, we believe that work on establishing preparedness stocks must start during this ageing period. We therefore join in the suspension, where the government is asked to promote a separate case for the Stortinget during 2019 on the establishment of national stockpiles of cereals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e226	As a representative of the Green Party in Oslo, I represent many voters who are happy to grow basil and tomatoes in flower boxes on the balcony. Soon spring soles heat in the pots, and carrot and sunflower sprouts emerge. It's nice, educational and health-promoting. But no matter how well we stand with our tomato plants, it monies very little if we're going to get food for the nation. Then we need skilled farmers, living settlements and food soils. The food earth should be almost sacred to us. In one gram of food soil, there may be several billions of bacteria in an incredibly complex interaction with nutrients. It's irreplaceable. Nature has spent thousands of years making it. It is the basis of any civilization. Here in Norway the food soil is extra rare, for only 1 pst. of the country is suitable for growing cereals. Only 3 pst. is suitable for growing food. Nevertheless, we continue to lay the food ground under asphalt, artificial lawns, dwellings and shopping centres. Every year, the municipalities of Norway allow 6 000 target food soils to disappear. Much of the same happens in the rest of the world. The European Environment Agency recently announced that Europe will lose many, many square kilometres of food soil each day. At the same time, people need more and more food. The UN Food and Agriculture Organisation, FAO, has estimated that global food production needs to be increased by 70 pst. to provide the world's population with enough food by 2050. For the Greens, soil protection is a matter of value. Solidarity with future generations is at the heart of our policies. We cannot continue to deprive our grandchildren of the opportunity to grow food for short-term benefit to the builders and municipalities, especially when we know that we are on our way into a future where climate change, population growth and weathering of the food world are expected to weaken food security worldwide. In the Greens' motion for a resolution we are debating today, we are asking for support for seven concrete measures. We do that because we want to fill the government's soil protection strategy with concrete priorities that make it work. We have already many, many times adopted good intentions and fine words about stricter soil protection. Now is the time to go from chat to action. That is why, in the Greens today, we are proposing a reform of Norwegian land policy in which responsibility for the food soil is lifted from municipal to national level. In addition to relocating the right of derogation, we require substantial restrictions on the requirements in order to be able to grant exemptions under the soil law. We suggest that food soils should be provided with permanent protection, and we propose that the legalisation and tightening of the size of food soils should be extended from 4000 decaves to 2000 decaves per year – to mention something. We simply have to note that the Economic and Social Committee has not taken up one of our proposals when it comes to voting, but rather is asking for a revised strategy in the revised budget. Earlier, if you wanted nothing to happen, you set up a committee. Now the word ‘committee’ is no longer very good – it is called a ‘strategy’ instead. This is disappointing. We in the Greens have no doubt that both the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, SV and the Christian People's Party – as we have just heard – have good intentions in terms of soil protection, but in this case it is now time to cut through. However, it does not seem that the Storting will do today. It seems more tempting to talk hotly about soil protection at national level, while maintaining the opposite practice locally. We in the Green Party believe that it must be the Stortinget, not the government, who must take responsibility for strengthening soil protection during this period, and we thought it should be done through proper consideration in the nutrition committee. That is why I would urge the Stortinget to support the proposals from us in the Greens today. Finally, I would like to underline two things: Firstly, the Greens are giving their wholehearted support to all the sensible proposals that are being put forward today. Secondly, of course, we are voting in favour of the proposal for a decision by the majority of the Committee on the proposal for a new and more stringent soil protection strategy. If this strategy turns out to be too weak, I hope that the Workers' Party, SV, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party will support us in correcting these weaknesses. With this I take up the proposals from the Greens.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e254	The representative Per Espen Stoknes has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e259	Everyone in this room has the right to take care of the soil resource in order to maintain and increase food production. We're all a few of them about that. The other thing we're a few about is that the degradation of food soils has been too big, and that therefore we have to have a more ambitious goal than what was in force when the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the UK ruled. The third thing we are aware of is all of the measures in today's soil protection strategy, which was dealt with in the United Kingdom about two years ago. What we disagree about is how fast it makes sense and is possible to update a strategy that is under roll-out very many places in the administration. As we have noted in the response to the committee, we are already implementing most of the 17 proposals contained in the strategy. We have followed up eight of the nine appeal decisions that Stortinget has taken in connection with the soil protection strategy, and we are going to continue that work. But if you're busy with soil protection — in substance — I'm not sure if the most appropriate way to get the government's actual assessment of various proposals is to set a deadline that in practice gives us three months to do it. The proposals contained in the bulk documents – in the two representative proposals – have been assessed in the letter of reply we have given to the Committee. Other proposals that we may have to consider are impossible to give adequate answers within the time limit that the Storting has seen. So if one is busy with the substance of soil protection and wants an assessment from the government and a disbursement from the ministry of the most possible of these proposals, the Storting should postpone the deadline for the state budget for 2019. If one does, I'll encourage the government to join the proposal for it. Then you can have a reasonable review, a summary of what we've already done, and an evaluation of further proposals. Without that, I will not be able to give adequate answers to what the Storting says they want answers to. Soil protection is about local priorities. I don't think it's because the Center Party leader in Orkdal is not busy with soil protection that they're now re-disposing 110 decaves of cultivated soil to a new chicken factory. I think it's because a local sees that these are difficult priorities, and that sometimes there are other concerns that also weigh heavily. The Greens are honest when they say they want to take this responsibility from the municipalities, but the majority say they won't. It requires that we have completely different processes against those who make the decisions, which in practice are the municipalities, than what we have today. The Ministry of Agriculture does not agree to any particular extent on the area under cultivation to be redisposed. It's the municipalities that do it. It is up-to-date with the municipalities that are the important thing if we are to achieve the soil protection target by 2020. When it comes to the proposal for the emergency storage of food grain, I refer you to the assessments that the case spokesperson made in his post, but we will respond to the mission that Stortinget now gives us. I feel that the Storting moves from the positions a previous one has had, when one says that emergency storage can be about grain drying on its own garden. It is a more sensible approach, which we will review and report back in 2019. But it's always important to remember what it is we're prepared to do. If we save ourselves from war and conflict, one might say that not to dispose of cereals is central, but with two mills in the country, one might wonder where the bid we are to deal with such a situation anyway, even if we had food grain stored. Have we taken away the risk? I'm not sure. If this is a trade block, which is often the argument used, it seems that Norway is not alone in trade policy. The EEA Agreement, which is opposed by individual parties, ensures that Norway is part of the EU internal market. The internal market in the EU has high export needs in the case of food grain, because normal production is far more than own consumption in the internal market in the EU. So one has to store that as well, for a situation that's less likely. This makes it necessary to make significant representations if you're going to do this, in addition to what we've already had, which says there's no need for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e280	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e285	I choose to interpret the council positively, and I have the impression that he also agrees that one needs to set the pace a little bit when it comes to re-disposal of arable land. A target of 4000 deches is set by 2020. It was opposed to what the government initially proposed in its soil protection strategy, which was 6,000 deches, but we still redispatch too much per year. The last year, there's a decrease of 300 dekars, as far as I can remember, and that means that one can't reach the 4 000 dekars target by 2020. From what now appears to be adopted, can the Council of State show how he will attack this? In his reply to the committee, he suggests that the strategy for soil protection is being followed up and that one is on the right track to achieve the goal of just 4,000 deches redispatched.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e294	If you want to achieve that goal, it actually requires two clear priorities. One of the priorities is clear in municipalities, and this means that the development of competences for those who make decisions there is quite important. Thus, the government organises, in cooperation with KS Earth Conservation Conferences around it, to get municipal politicians – who are the ones who make these decisions – better up-to-date and better able to follow the goal set. The second is that there are some public etats that make decisions, or are the drivers of decisions about earth re-disposal, for example. The transport rates, which we also work systematically with. So I think we're on the right track through that process. But there is no doubt that the goal is ambitious. That's also why we've grown more than 6,000 deches on average over the last ten years. It is possible to achieve this goal, but if we are to have new measures, one should have a slightly longer period than three months to achieve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e301	In a letter to the Committee, the Council of State signals that he is really on the right track and that the strategy adopted must be allowed to work. But now the Council of State points to two areas that are absolutely essential. One is the municipalities and public institutions. I agree. But then it can show that you can't achieve the goal despite the rules that are now in force. Will the Council then take the initiative to ensure that both municipalities and public offices are controlled and that the soil protection target of a maximum of 4000 deches redisposed is actually achieved by the end of 2019?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e306	If I'm going to read the question so that one wants to take from the municipalities they have under the planning and building laws to dispose of land, the answer to that is no. I think cooperation with the municipalities is the answer. I don't think the answer to reasonable priorities, reasonable considerations in complicated local problem settings are shifting responsibility to the state. I trust that the municipal politicians will handle it, and so I believe the answer is that we need to cooperate more closely with them. When it comes to the state budgets, which in many cases re-disperse land, it is also important that one assumes that the Storting has set a new target, that a search for re-disposals other than of cultivated land is possible. But the Storting has also set a target of 4,000, because one realizes that some compromises are sometimes necessary if one is to develop the necessary transport infrastructure and, insofar as other infrastructure around our big cities is also needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e313	The council says he will cooperate with the municipalities and not take power from them. However, experience shows that when local authorities are hard hit, and there are strong industrial interests coming in, municipalities are unable to resist. Many statesmen are fighting to stop redeployment by municipalities. Does the Minister, with the background of what he sees going in the wrong direction, support the statesmen when they stop redispatching in the municipalities, or will he try them out, as he has done at more times?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e318	It is unlikely to the right of the Centre Party, which does not trust local politicians to make reasonable judgements. It's a different center part than what we normally belong to in this hall. Unlike the Central Party, I have confidence in local politicians across the country. I'm going to use the right I have, and the duty I have, to review applications that are being filed for the ministry. But it's not that I have a principle approach in those matters. I go into them in detail, assess whether the underlying regulations are met, and make an independent complaint procedure because it is up to the ministry to do so. So the indications that this is an overarching approach where I didn't follow the soil protection goal are no basis, and I think it would also have started the Center Party if they had tried to act with a little more precision when they talk about the procedure we're doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e323	Decisions are decisions. I hear the minister says he won't stretch it in three months. At the same time, he disagrees with doing what Stortinget has asked him to do. That's interesting. The Minister’s letter of reply shows that work against the municipalities is largely about sending a letter clarifying the importance of soil protection. He has asked the statesmen to organize Earth Conservation Conferences and live training for municipal politicians through the statesmen. That's the main line of meeting a national target. Would the Minister consider other types of action when drawing up his work against municipalities that were so central to his own strategy?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e331	The answer to that is yes. But it would have been an advantage if the representative of the County heard my entire contribution, because I said that it is difficult to make new, thorough payments before the deadline set by the Grand Duchy, which has been revised by the national budget, but that I am calling on the Government Party to vote in favour of the proposal if a deadline has been set. When one concludes that I disagree with following this up, there may be reason to follow something better with it throughout the article and not just the parts of which you have a self-interest. I think it's important that we reach the soil protection goal. I think it's my job to reach the goal that Stortinget has set, but I also think that if you're going to do it, you have to have working conditions to do it. If the Storting asks for new ratings because you want to have new reviews about what to do with new grips, you must also recognize that you need time to do them properly. But if one only wants to show a symbolic action, one can of course ignore such advice.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e336	On 30 May 2016, Stortinget addressed a representative proposal from the Christian People's Party on a more environmentally friendly and sustainable aviation sector with good capacity utilisation. A unanimous increase was made in the following decisions: ‘The government is asked to carry out an independent survey of aerodrome capacity in the Central East region in a future perspective. In this context, the location of non-governmental airports in Norwegian aviation must also be examined.’ Despite that decision, the government has allowed Avinor to continue the investigation with a third runway on the Gardermoen, without any comprehensive and thorough analysis of whether the airports of Rygge and Torp can relieve the Gardermoen as an alternative to a third runway there. In the light of the decision that the Stortinget will make today on a revised soil protection strategy: does the Council of State consider that there is a forward-looking approach when a new third runway on the Gardermoen could lead to the degradation and bonding of about 3000 targets of cultivated and arable soil?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e348	I believe the representative of Reiten should be happy that I am not involved in handling such a large construction project directly in Stortinget. I also think many other actors should be happy that Stortinget does not normally drive with it. What is important is that within the 4000-decker soil protection target, too, there will be a reduction of cultivated land, because basic infrastructure and urban development are so important that one has to see that one has to compromise. Something that we should have made clearer, and that I'm working on right now, is to look at how we, even though we have a fixed and round measure of 4,000 decks, make sure that it's not the best agricultural land that's dust first. How do we make sure that we prioritise more clearly in all types of assessments between the best Earth and the less valuable Earth, if one can call it any Earth? It is among the measures that it is important to look at further, but then have enough time to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e357	A decision on a revised soil protection strategy in the revised national budget for 2018 is currently under way. I just heard from the State Council Dale that three months is too short a time. My question is: how realistic is it to get any substantive amendments to a real price change within the revised national budget for 2018? If the majority of the population adopts this today, what is the space of action that the Council of State and the government sees for itself?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e364	The space for action to make thorough assessments of new concrete proposals is small. It should be known that the Stortinget is more busy with the deadline than with the substance. For this reason, I recommend postponing the deadline for the 2019 state budget if one is busy with substance. I can always make an assessment of what we've already assessed, but I'd rather use a large part of the capacity we have for this in the ministry, to carry out the grips that are in an implementation process, but that's not completed. That would have been more sensible given the progress we have now. I'm going to follow the size of the picture to the best of my ability, but it's natural that the Storting is aware that when a decision is taken, there's a limit to what an actual count at that time, where, for example, the ministry. also undertake agricultural negotiations, which are quite demanding processes, during the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e371	So the line change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e378	It was interesting to hear the case rapporteur Foss suggests that it was ethically thoughtful to build up cereal stores. The ethical concern is to wait until the crisis really is there and the world market is not working. Then we can talk about that it's ethically questionable to buy free from the crisis. Today we are discussing some of the most important things for us people: the basis for food and food production. The pressure against the food soil is great. We are becoming more and more people here in the country and in the world who need a place to live, roads to transport, workplaces, shops, shopping centres – and to build roads, railways and other infrastructure, land for housing and not least commercial buildings. Everyone competes for the best and most central areas, and there are often areas of food soil. We need food to live. The value of the food soil represents is long-term. Many and strong interests are struggling to use the same areas. In Norway, we only have 3 pst. cultivated land, and the proportion goes down while we're growing more people who need food. Norway has good space, but little food soil. That's exactly why it's important to take care of the food we have. It's challenging, but absolutely necessary. When the government launched the municipal reform, better disposal and exploitation of the land was one of the crown arguments of the then municipal minister Jan Tore Sanner. From the followers of larger municipalities, soil protection was constantly being promoted as an argument. The idea was that larger municipalities would have larger land reserves, and that then it would not be necessary to build up food land. In the region I come from, Inner Eastfold, we have some of the country's best growing areas, and we've faced the challenge between soil protection considerations and being a press area. It is a region with medium-sized municipalities that has all been concerned with development and attractiveness both for itself and for the region. At the same time, there is competition between sites. Nevertheless, the pressures of regional nutrition planning have been mitigated to some extent. With extensive community merger, where five municipalities will become one from 1 January 2020, it would be thought that the pressure was decreasing, but what we are now seeing is regulatory processes that are accelerated and initiated for strategic reasons to secure areas within today's municipal boundaries, regardless of either the food soil or the areas that the new municipality has or needs. Unfortunately, I don't think the example is unique. I would like to take up with this the proposal of the Centre Party on measures to monitor, in particular, the re-disposal processes of cultivated land in municipalities that have been agreed upon, in the period leading up to the merger.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e397	Thus, the representative Ole André Myhrvold raised the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e402	Soil protection and the stockpiling of cereals are important, inter alia: for emergency reasons. Science has for a long time pointed to environmental threats related to world land use. The population is increasing faster than ever. Leaching and soil erosion occurs faster than ever. Cultivated and arable soils per individual become smaller and smaller years per year. Nutritional differences between countries and developing countries are greater than ever. Trade war, people's migrations and the threat to world peace are nothing less. And water shortage is a big problem in many parts of the world. In the United Kingdom, there is a broad consensus on increased food production and self-sufficiency in Norway. Calorie produced in Norway in relation to how much we eat is our self-sufficiency rate. If we correct for imports of feed and feed raw materials, we are down to 41 pst. Is this good enough? Do we have too many food stores and provisions? Do we have too much land in use? - No, don't delete it. There's the greatest pressure on the earth near our agglomerations. The reduction of agricultural land is strongly linked to centrality and agglomerations. For all types of degradation, 23 pst occurred. in densities, while 27 pst. occurred within 1 km of the boundaries of the site. Dissemination in districts accounted for 31 p.m., and residential purposes are the largest category of different types of degradation. In the same way as other uses, high-quality land was seized. Of the full-grown land that agriculture has built up and that has been surveyed in terms of quality, 72 were pst. very good quality. This is a limited resource in Norway. I enjoy the possibilities in the committee's attitude. The fact is that too much soil is built down, and too much soil is still being built down. Had it been up to the Center Party, we should have gone in to legislate the food soil – that it should be disposed of in the long term and taken care of for future generations. We must be able to legislate for the possibility of permanent protection of food soils. I am pleased with the majority, who want to focus on an up-to-date soil protection strategy. I just want to encourage the Council of State that if the deadline is short, the first job is to do this matter at the top of the pile. Minority proposals are also important, precisely in order to take responsibility for preparedness. Here we must be leading var, not after fast.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e417	The size has a target of putting the whole country into use for food production. Also in Finnmark, it is necessary to protect the food soil in order to meet this objective. In Finnmark is just 0.3 pst. of the area under cultivation and the Arctic climate limits production potential. More land is required to produce one litre of milk and one kilogram of meat than further south of the country. The farm in Finnland consists of milk and meat production based on grass and pasturage. Production is of high quality, with the most healthy animal in the country. The quality of grazing – as in Troms – gives lambs with the highest growth and quality in the country. Agriculture creates many primary jobs, resulting in major ring-effects and value creation within the county. Agriculture supplies raw materials to the county of two dairies and a slaughterhouse, generating nearly 400 mills and values for 300 mills. kr in the county. Also in a state as large as ours, where you'd think there was enough space, there's pressure on the food soil. Road construction or improvement of infrastructure such as water and sewerage, power lines, nutrient development, schools, residential areas, cabin areas, etc. are seen to be more socially useful than preserving the areas that ensure food production for the future. In many municipalities, in the absence of up-to-date plans, exemptions are granted from the obligation to live and operate, and areas are re-disposaled for other purposes. The state must follow up the municipalities in order to ensure that the food soil is protected for future generations. There is also a need to cultivate new land in order to compensate for land leaving the land for various reasons. In other cases, it is necessary to cultivate land that is closer to the farm. The State must oblige the municipalities to set aside areas in their plans for new cultivation. Soil protection is food production, preparedness, food security, public health, employment, value creation, sustainability and landscape care. So soil protection is thinking about those who come after us.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e436	The last time we had famine in Norway — perhaps someone in the room knows when it was, but I repeat it anyway — was between 1807 and 1814. If you look at that time period, you remember that something else happened in Norway, and the most demanding years were 1812 and 1813. Many of us have heard the poem "Terje Vigen". When a reader's story from around 1814, several say that some of the autonomy policies, which received increasing support, were due to a lack of food supply in the years before. If you look at the picture that's behind me here in the staging room -- it's painted a little later -- we see that they're doing one more thing in addition to writing a foundation law. The Hedmark representative snuffs in the first row, but if you look through the window, you see that you plough the ground – it is a horse ploughing new ground. What's very interesting about food policy and political upheavals is that it's often a clear context, including in our own political history. Then someone would say, "Yes, there was something you're worried about in 1814, or there was something you're worried about in 1789 during the French Revolution." But is it relevant to be concerned about food supply in 2017 and 2018? I was so lucky to be with the Foreign Affairs Committee of Egypt in 2010–2011, when the Arab Spring was on. Then there were three slogans we were met with: bread, freedom and social justice. That was the three main slogans. And it was bread that was parole no. 1, because in connection with the Arab Spring there had been a year of Russian agriculture. Vladimir Putin introduced export restrictions on wheat, and food prices rose in the weather in the countries most dependent on wheat imports. When the bread price rises, it becomes political unrest. So bread as a power factor is as relevant today as it was in 1814 or in 1789. When we discuss food storage, some say that it is old-fashioned – like the seven good years and seven bad years that we read about in the Bible. But the point of emergency storage is to have a standby for the unmistakable. And the unmistakable happens – the world is becoming more and more unstable. Therefore, it is wise for a country to have a basic food preparedness. And that's why it's wise for a country and for Norway when we're at it all, the richest – because we're the richest big thing that's ever been – to take care of the food. It's not going to go out of fashion to eat. You're going to eat in 40 years, in 50 years, in 100 years, and then we're going to have to take care of the eternal resource that food is. Now that I see that the Christian People's Party has landed on the right side, it's a joy. In the Christian People's Party, we often read Father's Prayer. It is one earthly thing you ask concretely in the Lord’s Prayer, and it is: Give us today our daily bread. These are good proposals that are now being adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e452	We're now dealing with a future case, so I think it was very happy for us in the Stortinget to see that we had school students at the start of today's debate, because this is just one thing that really concerns future generations. We know that climate change is becoming important, we know that there is a tougher fight for natural resources internationally, but how much the fight is going to be, and how hard climate change is going to hit, we are still not quite sure. But we know at least one thing, and that is that when crops fail internationally, it is of great importance for both access and price. With regard to the crop failure in 2007-2008, the Swedish Defence Research Institute has pointed to three interesting price increases: Wheat, which is the basis for a part of the debate today, increased by 150pst. in price, maize with 250 pst. And soya, which we've been relying on in Norway, increased by 200 pst. in price. This is important to bear in mind when discussing investment in improved and reinforced opportunities for the production of cereals in Norway. Although it's not the main point here, it might turn out to be an investment that is also economically very reasonable. We in the Workers' Party believe that a forward-looking food and security policy is just taking in on the need to adapt production to the climate change we are facing. I record that in the trades around, and especially in those parts of Norway that contribute to cereal production, there is great optimism and enthusiasm that the majority of the Grand Duchy is now pointing to the possibility of adapting cereal production by drying and storing on individual uses. Then I have to say that it is positive if the Minister of Agriculture now, through his contribution here, points to providing a whole of infrastructure that is necessary to ensure the overall preparedness. Today, the size makes a very forward-looking decision that the future generations really have reason to be happy about.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e463	We have a responsibility to take care of the food soil in a world of hunger, where the population is increasing. In a world of climate change, we have a responsibility – yes, we don't just have a responsibility; we have a condemned duty. We must take our share of responsibility in Norway. I hear that Council of State Dale says that one has to look not only at the total number of deacons with cultivated land, but also at what kind of land is being built up. I agree with the heart. Some of the most valuable soil we have in Norway is found in Akershus. A lot of the ground on which you can grow food grain is found in Akershus. In 2016, 848 covers were re-disposed in Akershus with cultivated soil. That's approximately equal to that. 120 football courses. There is more than one double from the previous year — the highest number in ten years. The development in Akershus is not just going the wrong way, it is going the wrong way in one of the states where it is most important to take care of the food soil. We also see the same thing if you look at both cultivated and arable land together. 1,561 covers with cultivated and arable land were redispatched in Akershus in 2016. And that's the highest number in ten years. State Council Dale says it's important to engage in dialogue with the municipalities and give them guidance. Yes, the main guide the municipalities can get is to see what the government does when it gets matters on its table for decision. One sees a government that overruns the statesmen, and that does not leave the protection of the soil in the high seat. Now the government has a new case on its table where you can see what it's doing. In Eidsvoll, the majority of municipal councillors will build down 40 district councillors with cultivated land, despite the fact that there are good alternatives that the councillor has outlined, to which the minority in the municipality has outlined and the County Council has raised objections. On direct questions from me, the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation said that she could not answer how such a case should be handled by the Ministry. So in a case where good alternatives have been outlined by the councillor and the minority in the municipality, the government cannot say that it is the protection of the soil that should be given priority. Therefore, it is important that we provide an enhanced strategy, so it is important that we hang in the collar to the government and ensure that it prioritises soil protection higher than what has been done so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e478	We have heard from the representatives of the Central Party – the representative Bjørke, the representative Myhrvold, the representative Adelsten Iversen, the representative Knutsdatter Strand, the representative Schlagsvold Vedum and the representative Gjelsvik – how important soil protection is and how hot the Centre Party is talking about food soil at a national level. It is time to become a decision here today to ask for an up-to-date soil protection strategy for spring. But we have also heard from the Dale Council that he would like to assess the assessments, that he would like to review the revisions, but that the room for action is small. Ideally, the State Council will have even more time to review the assessments and re-examine the investigations until the autumn. In other words, this doesn't come out much. My question then goes to the Center Party. They say from this pulpit that they want to lift responsibility from municipal to state level. They say that they want the possibility of a permanent protection of food soils. But will the Central Party vote in favour of the Greens' proposals on this particular issue? The centre party did not include these proposals in the committee's position, but totally ignored the Greens' proposals, and we had to lift them up as solutions. That's why we're looking forward with excitement to the Central Party's answer to my question and to the Central Party's vote today in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e487	First of all, this is an important debate that Stortinget is invited to take, and it is a discussion that the Stortinget must have on a regular basis. There are more entrances to this debate. One discussion is whether there is a debate on power in the Storting or a debate on national renunciation. I think that's a good discussion to take, because if you look at the long perspective, there's no doubt that it's over time built down a lot of food soil. We are not in a debate on measures that will work in the very short term. Here we need to think decades and generations ahead to get tools that have any purpose, but we also need to take into account that there are many actors and many who need to be involved in making decisions. We have a demography in Norway that means that we also have urbanisation and centralisation, and with that there is pressure on food soils in central Europe. Fortunately, more apartments are being built in Norway today than in the past. That means there's density in central strokes. It is also the case that more and more food soils are being laid under asphalt, and that considerable amounts of peat are now being built on food soils, so there is a debate where the Centre Party is standing in relation to its own policies – between this contribution to the degradation of the food soil and to increased climate emissions and the need for climate adaptation. I think it is worth remembering in the debate that we can already see the first big city in the world running out of water this spring. There is a discussion that leads us into some reflections on the challenges we face in terms of urbanisation and centralisation. It's a significant challenge Cape Town is facing, but it's not the only big city facing that challenge, because food and water are the most basic. We have to make sure we have that. When one here discusses Bible quotations and 1814, I think that if the Bible had been rewritten today, someone would probably have reflected that we have never thrown so much food into the world. In Norway, we're also an exponent of that, so we're in some challenging dilemmas. I would point out in the debate on cereal stocks and demography that we cannot protect food soil from growing again in the districts. The Christian People's Party was one of the parties that helped to push milk production out of the districts and down onto the food field, for example. around Mjösa, where we grow cereals today. We also need to discuss whether we have enough cereals today, how we are going to maintain the grain area, and what price it is going to be on cereals, because I think we need to discuss how we make sure that we produce enough grain in Norway today, before we start discussing whether to store.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e500	Governments are busy with local self-government and wonder why not the Center Party is. The center part is actually very busy with it. But it's a little special about this government, which is busy with local self-government on a resource that is eternal, and which when a first builds it out, is gone forever, while when it comes to many other things that the municipalities are occupied with, it seems that national governance is more important, whether it's property taxes, taxes, local police or other. There are actually things that a new local government can do about if it doesn't agree with what has been agreed. I think it's important that we see differences in irreparable damage and things that it's natural that one can control locally. The council says it's hard to get in in three months. I think these are familiar things in many areas. At the same time, this is so important that if the Council of State can assure us that he will use the time well, that he will work thoroughly through this, that he will let organisations and others in a recording phase highlight the most important things, that he will assure us that this will not be a way of getting more time to build more of the food field on, but will secure the direction to reach the goal of 4,000 deches, the Centre Party may be involved and consider postponing the deadline for the state budget, but then we must get a thorough and well presented case where we can really go deep into the matter. The Greens have many good individual proposals that they can support, but I think that if we are to have a broad political plurality, worked out, lifted and landed this matter, instead of many minority proposals, we will postpone the individual issues for us to have an overall assessment presented so that we can see how it works. I have to say to the Left, when they talk about one having moved the milk production from the district to the central stroke, yes, why have we done that? Well, because it has been a very structural change that has made it hard to operate in many areas of heavy grass. For us, it is important to maintain the channelling policy. We must not forget that in central strokes, too, there are areas that are not actually suitable for grass production other than grass production, which must also be used for food production in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e511	The soil protection strategy and protecting our food soil are perhaps one of the most important issues we can discuss in the Storting and create national guidelines and guidance for. We can choose not to take care of the food soil in a good enough way and so put the afterlife and the future a little bit on the sideline. I certainly think it is right that it is only in exceptional cases that a re-disposal of food soil – only in exceptional cases. And that should really be especially good reasons to re-dispose food soil to something else. I agree that it is the municipalities that initially dispose of the land, but it is quite essential what signals government sends to the municipalities that manage the land. In April 2014 – just to take the story around the soil protection strategy – Stortinget asked for a soil protection strategy. The government, in line with the wishes of the Storting, developed a soil protection strategy and put forward a strategy in which they proposed a redeployed target of less than 6000 deches. It was the same goal that the Stoltenberg government had. So a unanimous magnification said that you would have 4,000 dekars. There are now two years left before the target is to be met and we will not redispatch more than 4000 decs per year. I agree that these are the last years that are the best, everything else would be unnatural. Using the mean in e.g. The period of the Stoltenberg government is really just customs. We're going down to 4,000 pieces, and it's going to have to happen faster than now. That's the main problem. The question and the idea that I think is in Stortinget now is: do we have a government that will implement it? The Council of State here now says that he will – if he has any more time – also encourage the parties of government to vote in favour. That's a new information for the Stortinget that I think is interesting. I would recommend that the Labour Party also possibly support it, provided that we hear that the Council of State shows the willingness to respond to what is the wish of the Stortinge: to find measures that will ensure that we do not redispatch more than 4,000 dean per year from 2020. I would challenge the Council of State to explain a little bit to the Stortinget about what he thinks he's going to spend the time -- whether it's going to be a recording round, as the Central Party will propose, and, likewise, whether he's going to have a very restrictive approach to possibly overseeing the County's objections to redispatch until the time when the Storinge is re-treated. I assume that the Right, the Advance Party and the Left will also agree and vote in favour of any amended proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e526	It's an interesting discussion. A Right-Man listens extra well when it's talked about readiness. And at least the importance of 100,000 tonnes of cereals is not understated in the debate here – in terms of preparedness. Let me use a little bit different numbers than 100,000 tons of grain in stock. That's about one and a half pieces of bread per capita per day, i.e. about 185 calories a day. There is slightly less than the difference between calorie use on average per capita in Finland and Norway. If we didn't have this, if we didn't use the 100,000 tons, we would have eaten as many calories as you eat in Finland today. If we had eaten as much as we had in Sweden, it had disappeared a couple more bread slices a day. The reality of this is that this has nothing to do with readiness. There is no precautionary argument to suggest that if we do not do so, there will be no food supply problems in Norway. It is also the conclusion of the independent reports that have been delivered in this area, where we have also been told to follow closely the situation in the world. And it's done. I think it's wonderful to hear examples from Egypt and the Arab Spring. At best, the examples that have come from the pulpit are a distortion of reality in relation to what happened. What happened was that Egypt was getting more unemployment. Because this is the country that imports the most wheat worldwide, they refused to increase the proportion of subsidised grain, subsidised bread. It was this that led to a reaction among the new ones who had become unemployed. So there was no shortage of food, it was that the government did not expand the offer of subsidised cereals to the poor, of subsidised bread to the poor. Using this example to demonstrate the challenges of the supply of cereals in Norway is curative. We produce about 1.3 million tonnes of grain in Norway per year. So it's 100 000 tons that we're talking about right now. Of that, we use most of it for animal feed. Nor is there any doubt that in an emergency situation, parts of the grain currently used for animal feed could just be used for human consumption. What is also the case is that it would happen – as Nils T. Bjørk remarked from the pulpit here instead – that we would have to use larger parts of our grass resources. That's really what our response resource is in the country, and that's what's going to be the response resource for our future cereal needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e539	It was curous in itself. As I understood the representative from the Right, he said that a readiness of 100,000 tonnes of cereals is too small. If you really should have a standby, it needs to be bigger. There is the type of assessment that you need to make: What will be a real readiness? I don't think we, using numbers in the hall here, will be able to figure out how many pieces of bread we can eat in an emergency situation. Of course, there's something we need professionals to do, but I see the entrance from Right here as interesting. It is not for the Right to consider the emergency storage of cereals. What might be special about this matter is that we have a minister who doesn't think Norway should have national targets for soil protection. This means that the majority in the room are somewhat uncertain about how this work will be followed up, and whether the work needs to be done from Stortinget. I miss a little bit of a professional government council in this situation in many ways. When there is a multiple number for a line other than that for which his own party stands, it will be a decent government task to follow up the goal of the Storing. But there's a whole lot of politics going on here, because there's no target minister attacking in his post. That's what he's thinking. It's time -- it's getting a little bad time. Three months is too bad a time. A lot of time is needed to make simple reviews. If it's true that the minister supports the goal of soil protection and believes that we need a national target, where the state must have an active role in implementing it, not just holding conferences, seminars, providing training and sending letters, but more than that, and that we need someone who takes the big look, who sees all the small patches around in context, who is trying to drag Norway towards a proper soil protection effort, who sees that we need more action, and that the measures outlined in the proposal, in other proposals, etc., can be effective in achieving our goals, and it's only time to see what this minister will do and deliver if he gets the time he's asking for. I think what's underlying here is that we have a multiple on the Stortinget that now realizes that we need to take the soil protection effort in this country to a completely different level – and that's very good. Today we have better protection of birds than of food soil. The party of progress is not so busy going against the protection of birds, but the food soil, on the other hand, they want to come to life. This state shall not interfere.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e550	I am pleased that a joint committee agrees that access to enough food is a central element of preparedness, and that it is important to take care of soil resources, and not least fisheries resources, in order to ensure this. The country has a small agricultural area compared to many other countries and, therefore, in order to ensure food production, strong soil protection combined with available agricultural land is important. Safe food supply to an ever-increasing population in the world and in Norway depends on the maintenance of areas as far as possible. Agricultural land is also important as a basis for an industry that contributes to employment, housing, value creation and not least a living cultural landscape throughout the country. Yes, there is scarcity of food soil, and one has also seen too much degradation of the food soil. However, we have seen that re-disposal of cultivated land has had a falling trend in recent years. In 2013, we had the lowest re-disposal since we started recording this in 1976. Therefore, I would like to commend the government's soil protection strategy and the work done to follow up the measures presented in this document. I do not share the opposition's view that the follow-up to this has been too poor. As noted in the comments, the government has implemented or is in the process of implementing most of the 17 measures of the soil protection strategy. I would like to stress that several of the measures are difficult to get out as fully completed, because they need to be followed up on a continuous basis. If we are to turn this around as a symbolic act, there is cause for concern. Now the debate shows that that concern may not have to be present. The follow-up to this strategy is comprehensive and cross-ministerial. For example, the objectives of this document have good footprints in the new frameworks of the national transport plan as well as in the management of the Planning and Building Act. I am also pleased that the new government platform outlines clear commitments to follow up the soil protection strategy. This will undoubtedly continue the focus on the work on soil protection also with a new government composition. As I said at the outset, with regard to the stockpiling of cereals, I am pleased that someone has a focus on food safety. However, as noted in the comments above, several times during the previous period the government assessed the stockpiling of cereals, including cereals. by exploring the need for a system of cereal stocks.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e565	Agriculture is the use of land, the use of soil in a way that makes it an eternal resource. It requires management. The conflict over soil is the largest where most people live, and most people live where the soil is the deepest – therefore this acute matter. From land we have agricultural policy. Why do we have agricultural policy? Some people think you have agricultural policy because of the farmers. It's just as stupid as having a health policy because of the nurses. No, one has agricultural policy because it is a social mission, and the social mission of agricultural policy is enough and natural food for the population. That's the way it is in Norway, that's the way it is in every country. The fact in Norway is that on a calorie basis, which is the international definition, we are on about 40 pst. in the case of agricultural food – the lowest in Europe, 10 pst. lower than the next country, which is Switzerland. So we're in extremely bad shape. There are many ways to increase the degree of maritime supply, but the most important, fundamental, is to take care of the areas, that is, the basis of production, which is a prerequisite for growing plants, because it is the size of plant production that determines the degree of maritime supply of food. When the representative from Right Tom-Christer Nilsen says we don't have an emergency argument, it's unfortunately a reasonable mistake, to say it diplomatically. Obviously, there is a preparedness argument; there are no countries in the world that do not take this issue seriously and do so in order to ensure the supply of food to their own citizens. But the political ideology based on economic liberalism does not see the difference between food and other commodities, and it has historically led to very demanding situations. Planning in this area is the responsibility of municipalities, and I would like to encourage municipalities to regulate agriculture – according to the Planning and Building Act – what is the area around cities and agglomerations. It's a political debate in any local government, in any city government. Then we get that discussion up, we get a different culture. Governments are based on Report. St. 11 for 2016-2017 on change and development from 9 December 2016, where the government states: ‘The self-sufficiency rate corrected for imports of feed should not be a result target for increased food production based on Norwegian resources.’ This is, of course, a fundamental error, and a majority at the treatment in Stortinget, the red-green plus Christian People's Party, said that the government does not support that definition. One shall take into account imports of cereals. My question is, Will the Council of State follow the will of the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e585	Access to food is important for the security of people and nations. We can go into a future where taking care of the food soil and having a good food preparedness will be as important as military preparedness. The right hand side and the step-by-step side are heavy enough to take this over. As a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, I meet many, both in defence and defence, who believe that the stockpiling of cereals is important, but they are therefore not heard by the Right and the Advance Party. The Government Party relies a lot of its argument on a risk and vulnerability analysis of Norwegian food supply made by the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness. They go in and analyze a number of scenarios, including: failure of electronic communications, failure of power supply, animal and plant diseases, nuclear incidents, shortages of cereals and international military conflicts. Their conclusion is based on an important statement that I shall quote: ‘An important prerequisite here is that functioning international trading systems allow the import of food.’ So the analysis is based on the fact that regardless of what can happen in an uncertain future, there will be failures in basic infrastructure, climate and environmental changes or nuclear accidents, something that is stable and stable. The production of food and the international trading system is proceeding safely and responsibly, completely independent of other events that may arise. The question is, can we, as independent countries, build on such a commitment and make this analysis meaningful? I would like to challenge both the Minister of Agriculture and people who defend whether they think and feel confident that this analysis can form the basis for the formulation of Norwegian policy in such an important area. So write DSB in its estimates that ‘in a short to medium-term perspective, there’s nothing to suggest that we need to be concerned about access to food’. I would like to ask the Council of State, which is the next speaker, if he can tell what to add to the term'short to medium term'. The words themselves don't say anything – are we talking in two, five, or ten years? In conclusion, it is an interesting move in our time that the Right and Advance Party in important areas such as food security, preparedness and defence have taken on the role of brake pad here in the Stortinget, and the new government party, Left, also seemed to have found itself well in this role.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e604	First to the representative Knag Fylkesnes: it must be allowed to expect even SV to connect to reality. Claiming that we are not interested in a goal of soil protection, when we prove in the Storting that we are behind the 4,000-decker target, is totally unimaginable, and I think it's an unreasonable way to run the political debate. When it comes to the assessment of what we are able to do with a slightly longer period of time, it is that we will be able to go a little bit deeper into the proposals that are currently contained in the proposals of the representatives, which we have given a brief assessment of, than we would have done with a shorter deadline. But more important than that, there are a few of the elements that are included. The NIBIO report on soil protection. They show, for example: that we have a lot to do when it comes to land mapping and re-disposal, or to preventing the main area being re-disposaled. But they also show that about a quarter of the re-disposal that is taking place today is occurring within the city's urban area, and also that more than a quarter occurs less than 1 kilometer from a town. In other words, half of the area that's being redispatched is in the vicinity of this. This means that if one is to have an urban development – and there is a political desire for many places – it means that one must have a stronger outer protection. These discussions are demanding to enter, and it will result in stricter regulation if one is to do so, also by the right of council of municipalities. There will be a difficult political discussion and a difficult weighing-down to do so, but at least there is something you can't process in advance, on what I would define as a very short time, as a decision before the revision would be. I can't, however, process in advance how I want to deal with complaints that come to the department, whether we want to give the county council or the municipalities. It's simply because there I have to treat individual things like that. To give the Stortingen a promise of how they are handled, completely independent of the content and nature of the matters, cannot do a responsible state council, but I have taken the signals that the Stortingen sent about the practice for it. In addition, it is very important that the left-hand frequency is now included in the cereal and power feed policy and total land disposal, because if you want to look at some of the experience figures that we have over the last ten years, then the grain area went down under the previous government. Year after year the grain area went down, now they're going up again. It happens that it's profitable actually to be able to make priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e615	The centre party is aware that society must have a good and robust infrastructure, and that it is called to have a few omelettes, must break some eggs. But it nevertheless hurts a heart that is concerned with soil protection, to see what the areas between Trondheim and Melhus in Trøndelag look like in these days, with the extension of E6. It's not because it disturbs the outlook for the running, but because it destroys some of the best food soils that exist in the Southern Throne Layer for generations to come. The central party believes that urgent action under the soil protection strategy is now being taken. It is urgent because there are currently major structural changes in local and regional administration, both by coercion and by voluntary means. It is then important to send out proper signals to the new regional and local administrations. That's why it's urgent. I heard the council try to doubt the central party's trust in local government. The answer is the opposite. The previous government, which is strongly related to the sitting, created considerable changes in the structure of administration, with great uncertainty. At such times of uncertainty, clear signals are important, including from this room. It is therefore important to get the full speed of the work on the soil protection strategy. As we have heard today, there are innumerable arguments both for the Centre Party's reinforced proposals and for the government to present an updated soil protection strategy, either in revised form or at least at the latest in the State budget. Governments need to get time to get it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e626	Governments have been challenged whether, by being granted better time, they can provide input to the Storting which maintains the necessary quality so that the soil protection objectives adopted unanimously by the Storing can be achieved. I just want to quote one sentence from the setting: ‘The majority refers to the determination of the agreed soil protection targets of the Storting.’ The government parties have also voted in favour of this, and if we can now expect this to be the starting point for the work of the Council of State and the Ministry, we in the Christian People's Party will help to give the Council of State more time for this. But the order is time-ready, and it would be very fine if the Council of State could just finally clarify that we have the common understanding – and at least he will get support from us to get extra time for work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e636	We also support, of course, that we have the best possible basis for following up the soil protection strategy, which seems to be a unified proposal in this room. Some of the points to the bottom of the debate: there are several issues raised here about preparedness. I think at least we have to have that mantra that the grasslands of course provide an opportunity for production, if it's not necessarily a standby storage. So it has been important during that period, not least – as many have also been in the past – that the greatest preparedness we have is our channelling policy. It's actually the biggest response strategy we have the opportunity to follow. Just to keep the areas on which grain is to be produced, in fact – which is not so different from what the representative Lundtegegen said yesterday, as we agree with – is just the possibilities of keeping soil in claim, perhaps the biggest response strategy. But in a preparedness strategy, it could be interesting that access to water had also been mentioned, when we know that in Asia the problem is that there is so much pollution of water that you can't deliver a product at the other end that's good enough. There has hardly been any greater focus on soil protection than in the last four years. I think that as Left-Man is happy, I think it's a pleasure that we've focused on it. And then, in some contexts, it's a paradox -- whether it's the color -- that at least in the city that's the biggest closest to me, Trondheim, those strategies haven't been followed up in particular. It's being built down. I hope we can also have a consciousness around this with density development. The areas around the cities are very good agricultural land, but they are also most easily built down. I think that's also something we have to bring with us. Tonight I'm going to a road meeting myself, where there's competition between food and road, and where the food soil often loses. I think we also have to have a greater degree of consciousness when building roads. Of course, it costs nothing more to build on food soil, but the long-term perspective is that we have to get up in order for it not to be built down more than what is strictly necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e649	The representative of Nils Kristen Sandtrøen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e654	The Arab Spring and the link to the drought in the Black Sea region are the reasons why it is relevant in this context and in the matter. The representative of Nilsen from the Right is quite right in saying that unemployment was of course a major problem. My point was that export restrictions were imposed on cereals from the Black Sea region, which helped to increase prices and make bread one of the most important paroles in the Arab Spring. That's the fact that we have to deal with. As John Maynard Keynes once said, when the information changes, I change my conclusions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e659	The Council of State points out precisely that it is in and around the cities that we have the greatest challenges. What was my main point is that within the national soil protection target, a few more active discussions are needed in individual municipalities and city councils, because it is those who decide in practice whether the national soil protection target is being implemented as is the law. For this reason, it must be a follow-up by the government to the national soil protection strategy with messages to municipalities and city councillors, so that one here gets a discussion about the use of land around each city and city, that one by the law of planning and building can decide that one regulates the land for agriculture, so that the land is occupied – for other purposes. Preparedness is linked to the size of the areas and the fertility of the areas, and to the fact that the areas are in operation — the quality of the whole. Then we're naturally over to profitability. You don't get a stronger soil protection without increasing the value of the areas. That means that the plants growing on those areas have to get a higher value. It is a value to be established in the agricultural holding by determining the cereal price. The cereal price is linked to the feed price and it is the feed price that defines the value of the grass. It's the professional context. Low value for grain, low value for grain for power feed, low value for grass. Thus, the earth is subjected to a very pressure, because it has no special value. It also leads to a deterioration in the quality of the areas, because it does not pay to be competent as a farmer. When I took the floor, it was because the Council of State did not respond to what is the government's description of the social mission. The government describes the social mission for Norwegian agriculture so that it is carried out either by importing cereals or by not importing cereals. That's what did not get a majority here in the hall when the message was being processed, where the Christian People's Party joined the Red-Green parties and said that you have to take into account the import of grain when you're looking at whether or not the social mission has been carried out. I repeat the question: will the Council follow up the majority comment which was in the suspension of the agricultural notification, which was issued on 6 April 2017, which says that one should take account of imports of cereals? Then the degree of maritime supply will be reduced from 50 pst. – as the department wants to present it as – to the real one, which is about 40 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e670	The debate here today has shown that there is a strong consensus that the protection of food soils is important, especially in view of increased food production and preparedness. Both the Jeleia platform and the previous government platform have had a lot of focus on this. We need to facilitate more food production and produce the best-principled food in the different parts of the country. This is what the government is doing, and food production is increasing. Climate change clearly leads to lower production base in areas experiencing long periods of drought. We clearly see this both in Africa, in Asia and in the United States. So a comment to the representative Ole André Myhrvold of the Center Party, who clearly sees no ethical concern that when the basis of production in other countries gets worse due to climate change, Norway will go into international markets and buy cereals to stock in Norway. Other things are building up stocks at farm level in Norway, which the Council of State says he is in favour of. So a comment to Per Olaf Lundtigen about self-sufficiency. Self-sufficiency is calculated on a calorie-based basis in a normal Norwegian diet according to international standards. However, as is known, a regular Norwegian diet contains both fruit and vegetables, sugar and a number of other foods that cannot be grown in Norway. As of today, Norway is close to self-sufficient in meat, milk, eggs and many vegetables. In addition, we have a large seafood sector that we can deal with in a possible crisis. Norway may be better off than most other countries in the world. During the debate, it appears that the proposal for a revised soil protection strategy has been amended to call on the Government to promote an updated soil protection strategy in the context of the 2019 budget, and I would recommend Right to support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e685	The representative of Nils T. Bjørke has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e690	It's interesting to hear Right here, where the Right Representative Nilsen says that this warehouse is so small that it doesn't matter, while Ingunn Foss thinks it's unethical to make a food grain warehouse. It's not that easy to understand the context. I must say that it must be less unethical to act when there are good times and normal access to food, so that we do not fight about it when there are crises and difficult times. It is precisely when one can challenge the international situation. I'm glad Nilsen said it was important to take care of the grassland, and that's it. But if we are to take care of it and keep it ready, it is actually necessary to be in active use. We are forced to have a structure and a district agency, we shall be able to use this heavy-powered area, so that it is ready for tighter times.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e697	The proposal of the Central Party today to ask the government to ‘implement measures to monitor in particular processes involving the re-disposal of arable land in municipalities that have been adopted in the period leading to the merger’ is a natural consequence of the fact that municipalities that are in a merger process are now strategically beginning to regulate areas in order to secure and sedentate structures within existing municipal boundaries. It can't be right when one in six goals of the municipal reform from the beginning of the government was just better and more comprehensive societal planning, where soil protection was a major argument. This proposal is also different from the proposal for a halt to investment, which the government initially proposed in the community reform. The investment stop refers to all municipalities and came at a completely different time in the reform process. The proposal of the centre party is more to count as a safety valve in the merger process, whereas municipalities are hurrying to regulate away precious food soils. Then it becomes strange to sit still and watch that you now regulate a non-replaceable resource to facilitate car shops, furniture stores and warehouses, to mention some of the purposes for which the food soil should absolutely not be used. I therefore appeal to Stortinget, and in particular to the Christian People's Party, to participate in the introduction of this safety valve, a safety valve that will help to ensure that no short-term choices are made based on an old-fashioned – yesterday – approach to land disposal. Do not miss the reform's intention to improve land use. In that case, after 2020, a new local government had the opportunity to assess the social benefits and disposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e711	First to the representative, Reiten, who really challenges me if you can trust us to follow what I have said: I am one of the few in the room who must have trusted every day and not just every four years. I'm familiar with that. If you feel that I am abusing the trust I've been given, there's also the possibility of doing something about it. The challenge we have in land policy is not just that we should go from a 6 000-decker target to 4000-decker, but we should go from an average of 7,600-deckers over the last four years to a maximum of 4,000-deckers. That shows a little bit of the challenge. There are yearly variations, it will always be. We're actually going to shrink the distance that is much larger than the previous target. Previous target has not been reached. It shows a little bit of the challenges we're facing. That is why we need to pursue an agricultural policy that makes a person dare to give priority. Then it is good to remind the representative Lundtägen that, when handling the existing annual agricultural agreement, he had the opportunity to vote for a higher feed price with less money spent on price write-down than was the result after the Senter party negotiated the price write-down and the feed price. It's okay to mean the same thing in decisions as one remembers every time one is on the pulpit in Stortinget. There is also a reason to address another issue. Because yes, we have built a lot of cultivated land, but agriculture has also built quite a lot of cultivated land. 1 750 dean this year, 22 pst. of cultivation taking place without any application procedure. It is not part of the Storting Soil Goal. The question we also have to ask ourselves if we're going to do a more thorough job with this until we deliver a new document to the Storting, is whether it's the soil protection goal of the Storing that's the most important thing, or whether it's total land degradation. When you follow the debate here, it might seem like it's the last one, even though the government is naturally bound by the first one. We are forced to look at several things in this work, but the most important of all is that the Storting clarifys what kind of expectations we are going to have for the municipalities. If you want to encourage municipalities to do a more thorough job with this, it is dangerous when some parties here threaten to lose responsibility for it. It does not give me a good mandate to have a constructive dialogue with the municipalities on this. It is good that the Stortinget, by decision today, also declares that those who are in charge of it do not have multiples.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e722	In the United Nations, more organisations work with food and food security. If you look at other types of goods, it's not similar to them. It's of course because food is completely defined for humanity, and food security is completely defined for peace. That's why I think it's a little bit historyless what I hear from some of the representatives from the Right. In the case of emergency storage, it is precisely in order to reduce the fluctuations in world food prices. The last big turn we saw was – as I mentioned before – the one that happened in the summer of 2010, because of the turbulence in the Black Sea region. Then there was a huge growth in the world's wheat prices, and the largest importer of wheat in the Black Sea region is Egypt. There are always complex reasons why something happens, but one of the three main slogans on the street in Egypt was about bread. You can't talk that out. That's it. If you read the first program from Egypt's former President Mohammed Mursi, he would increase Egypt's wheat production. He did not get it and was thrown into a new revolution in the summer of 2013, and Abdel Fattah al-Sisi took over as president. What did Putin do to President Al-Sisi? He started a wheat program to have a better wheat export to Egypt. If I don't remember completely wrong, it was 40 pst. of all the wheat obtained in 2014 by Egypt, from just Russia. And what one sees a few years later is that Russia has closer and closer military cooperation with al-Sisi. So the one who doesn't have knowledge of food and power, and who also wants to laugh a little bit of it, is historyless and can too little about his time. If you read John Kerry's talk about the situation in Syria and the people's migration there at the start of the conflict, and look at all the alerts FAO, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, got about the food crisis at the start of that crisis, you can see that they are historyless, can too little about their time and read too little in international media about the food and food situation. That's what this is all about at the end of the day: if there's a disturbance around food, there's a disturbance around everything. Preparedness is about planning for the unmistakable. It is unmistakable for us that there will be a food crisis now, but it is wise to have a preparedness for that. It's wise to have a buffer that can stabilize, and it's wise to have food for future generations, because it won't go off with the courage to eat. We're going to eat in 50 years and in 100 years, and then it's wise to have that resource in Norway. If there's something that's been showing us over the last decades, it's that the security situation is turning very, very fast. Then it's wise for a country to be conservative and take care of the most basic resource of all. And it's wise for a big-time representative to be knowledge-seeking – not just believe in what's at his own nose tip.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e735	It has been interesting to follow this debate and the lack of good arguments from the government party. In particular, the derailments that have been tested show that many people are struggling to have good arguments against having cereal emergency storage. I will mention two themes: water and channelling policies. Access to water and the fight for water resources have been important in the international community for a long, long time. The debate is becoming completely more important over the years to come, and many believe that the fight for water resources is more important than the fight for oil. But one should be more than reasonable pessimistic to think that access to water is the central response challenge in Norway, in both the short, medium and long term, to use those words. When it comes to the channelling policy, the earth's value in preparedness is linked to cultivation and enforcement, so that one can feed on it. Then one in that area must focus on the grasses that leave the crop. Earth that is at large has no great value in preparedness. I have to ask again for a response from the government party about what is on the basis of the unsemja that is here. I quote from the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness, DSB, instead and will repeat it: ‘An important prerequisite here is that functioning international trading systems allow the import of food.’ The Government Party fully supports its argument that regardless of what happens – whether it concerns electricity, electricity, nuclear accidents, wars or international conflicts – food production is stable and stable in all countries, food supply is good, and trading systems are going on as if it were our peacetime and no accident had happened. Does the government party feel secure on the basis of this arrangement as a basis for the positions they take?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e753	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e758	The level of food supply can be improved if we eat more fish and less meat, eat the whole animal – not, like now, just the best parts – and eat what we've supplied on the plate. I want to underline it. But in addition, we need to reduce imports of cereals. That's what's the joke. Governments will not change their understanding of the societal mission, despite comments by a majority in the course of treatment. It tells me that there is a need for decisions in Stortinget, so that it is decided, because it is absolutely essential for what we want with Norwegian agriculture. Finally, my vote on the previous agricultural settlement was linked to the fact that the government had taken a number of aspects into account in the same proposal, so it was quite right to vote against the government's proposal. At the same time, I would like to stress: the feed price must rise, because it determines the value of the grass. We don't get value on the grass without a higher feed price. It's a professional-political context that stands as a pole.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e767	I just want to clarify the position of the Labour Party at the very end of this discussion. I now see to the Council of State that he fully supports the stated objective of the Grand Duchy that it will not be redeployed more than 4000 dean from 2020 onwards, and that he intends to deliver actions and concrete proposals if we postpone the deadline from the revised national budget to the 2019 government budget – that is, he will promote concrete measures and proposals to meet exactly that. So on that basis, on behalf of at least the parties that support the majority voting, I believe that we can change from the revised national budget to the state budget in 2019, starting from that point of view. It'll be so that it's quite demanding to do it. That's what the council says. And he also has to admit that some of the things that are demanding are actually having a dialogue – or interaction, or cooperation – with municipalities and other public institutions, or regulating them, so that they do not actually redispose more arable land than the 4,000 targets. As he also stresses that he is dependent on trust every single day, I assume that if he is to maintain confidence after the state budget has been presented, he will show concrete, good measures that will ensure that we do not exceed 4,000 targets of restocked cultivated land in retrospect after the state budget has been presented – or from 2020, sorry; he will receive the last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e774	In itself, it is unlikely that the National Assembly as a whole will discuss, for or against, whether to secure the areas currently used for food production, and whether to have a stockpile of food grain for their own people. Claiming that we don't need food shelters because we haven't needed it for now is unfortunately the same tone as today's government has in total, even when it comes to preparedness like police, fire services and ambulances. Emergency costs, but it'll cost even more if we're not offered. The world has seen enough misassessment of response needs in recent years. From our history, we have learned the meaning of having food grain stockpiles. Norway is a country with a high risk of cereal shortages. In the period 1735 to 1788 Norway leased under the Danish trading monopoly, we got the trade bloc from 1807 to 1814, and later the food situation was going to be very difficult during the First World War. In the political struggle after the First World War, the state's grain business was created, with a monopoly on the grain translation. This meant that we were better equipped for the second world war started. If there is any evidence of war and crisis, there is a high level of industrial conversion, while food production is more demanding to replace. It takes time to increase food production and create stocks in the event of a crisis. Our annual demand for cereals and power supplies is 2.5 million tonnes of grain, and about half of it is imported. It's about what dimensions we're talking about. The fact that the Minister of Agriculture sees the EEA agreements and cooperation with the EU as a guarantee of our food preparedness is an eye-catching point of view. The fact that a government council responsible for the ministry of food production and food supply to the people, so easily sees that there are other countries that are going to provide food for us in times of crisis, is alarming. It is our duty as a national parliament to ensure the preparedness of food on the same line that we ensure the preparedness of the nation and the security of its citizens for attacks on the country and our interests. For the Central Party, it is essential to ensure that we have food production across the country, and that as a nation, we have a preparedness and strategy to secure our citizens' food if the crisis should arise. Therefore, it is also gratifying that there is now a plurality in this room for precisely strengthening soil protection, and that we are getting up a case about setting up national stockpiles of cereals in Norway. The centre party believes that the proposals that come from the Green Party are good, but that these are things and positions that must come about when we get to the cause next time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e787	I take the floor at the end because the representative Steinar Reiten brings a dimension into the debate – as far as the representative Schlagsvold Vedum did – on the historical significance. It is an important part of the background for the debate, but we are discussing, after all, what to do to build smaller food soils in Norway. Then the Senterparte cannot be like a poorly tuned satellite antenna, where it is completely impossible to interpret the signals. Will they be involved – in their own municipalities where they have rapporteurs – in putting the measures into action, or not? Is it the Storting to take responsibility for this, or should local democracy also be involved? One does not get away from the fact that the Labour Party and the Centre have most of the rapporteurs in Norway, and then they have to assume responsibility. I share what I see as the main input of the debate: Yes, we need to have respect and trust in local democracy, and that must help solve this challenge. The Stortinget and County are not the sole guardians of the common interests. Local democracy must do that, and we must assume a common political responsibility for it. I note that the representative Ivar Odnes thinks this is an interesting proposal from the Greens/Greens/EFA, which he will consider in more detail. I'm interpreting that as there's a discussion in the Center Party about which criteria you should give the most attention to. That leads me to the fact that there has to be a debate in the Central Party about taking away some responsibility from local democracy and overcoming it. I look forward to that debate. That's why my previous post was also the following: Is there a debate about power in the Storting we have today, or is there a demonstration in national amputation? We have had this in the administration for many decades, and we want it for many decades to come – we need to discuss it in a long-term perspective. In the case of water resources in Norway, a reasonable pessimistic approach shall be used to believe in shortages. But we are facing some challenges in managing water resources in Norway. Agriculture is also part of the challenges we face in this respect. There are a number of fjords that get too much nutrients, and it goes beyond agriculture in the long term. One must be involved in taking responsibility. We do not get into the climate debate – be it climate adaptation or reducing climate emissions – that transport and agriculture must be involved in taking part in their commitments. Without that, we're not going to move on. It is also taking a large and comprehensive responsibility to ensure future food production. With regard to the channelling policy, I think that Adelsten Iversen's representative had a good idea about Arctic agriculture. It also leads to the discussion on highland farming. We can't let these areas out of our hands, while we... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e800	There were many things that were raised in the last speaker's posts, which might require a full new round, because the themes require an in-depth debate on how to proceed. But what is being discussed here today is how we are going to take care of something that is of national importance, the food earth. In the future, it will be essential that we together, in this room, in cooperation with our local people elected, regardless of the party, be able to see the need for food, both now and in the future. Today, you have the Law on Planning and Building, which is essentially to protect the land resources we have in the country. I think it is absolutely necessary to actually set some national guidelines and some national targets for how much is acceptable to be reduced. Then you have to discuss what opportunities you have to build up the area to replace what goes out. There will be an interesting debate when we get into it – in the light of the government’s current consultation, among other things. on the new cultivation of bogs. Then we will have to make several adjustments, including: on climate issues, on biodiversity issues, and not least on how to ensure that we have sufficient space for food production up to the UN target, namely to produce as much food for our own population as possible. So to the question of the Center Party, we think that we should oblige people in the municipalities – and perhaps even our own – to take strong consideration of soil protection: it's a debate that could be interesting, because trust is a crossroads here, and trust is something you work up over time. I record that there are some municipalities that, in the context of the merger process – regardless of which political majority is now – have been extremely busy in speeding up local regulation before being part of a new large municipality. I would warn against this and I would like to point out that you have a planning and building law that is supposed to take care of such matters and that it can wait until the new municipalities are clear. Finally, I was thinking of saying something about the fact that the Council of State asked if it was the main goal of Storting, or whether there was the greatest possible reduction in land degradation. To that it's saying that I don't think the Storting gets very tired if you get under 4,000 dekar, because that's not the way that 4,000 dekar is the exact reading you have. The majority of people in this room probably want you to get even lower.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e811	In conclusion, it is natural, in the discussion of degradation, also to take into account that we are doing everything we can four times as much new cultivation every year as we are building up. Many farmers will invest in their land resource for many generations to come. It's one of the happy aspects of today's agricultural policy. At the same time, it is natural to remind the representatives of the Centre Party and the Labour Party that telephones are still in place in the deposit offices. If you're very busy with this, the phone is probably short to Orkdal and other municipalities, where a self-employed and leading processes that now lead to the degradation of cultivated land. If one believes it in the main hall, one should also exert that influence one might have on own party traps across the country. I'm assuming that the Center Party and the Working Party are so consistent. In addition, I would like to thank both the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party and the other proposers for a constructive approach through the discussion in this position. Basically, the ministry is more likely to respond properly when it comes to the assessments requested, and we are going to keep up the work we have to achieve the soil protection target of a maximum of 4000 decaves per year. Once again, after the discussion we have seen over the last few weeks, it turned out that there was no basis for any major political conflict in this area – for today the Stortinget is gathering again.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e820	The representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e826	We'll probably notice in this great period that Jon Georg Dale is going to be one of the Norwegian government's most powerless state councils. He's a sworn adherent to reducing customs protection, but fortunately, we have a huge majority who think differently. In discussions about soil protection, the Progress Party has always been a party that has been positive in building down food soils, but fortunately, we have a large number of people who think differently. Fortunately, the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have reduced their power, and the Stortinget has increased its power. The reason I took the floor for a comment here was that securing food supply to a country is not the responsibility of local politicians, it is a national responsibility. It's the responsibility of the government and the Great Government, and then it's the Great Government and the Government that have to take the lead in how much food soil is to be redispatched: we're responsible for having a readiness if the crisis is there. That is why it is farsighted and wise, what is now done by the Stortinge making some overall choices and not doing it as easily as the council says, by taking some phones from an office. It's national policy, it's big policy. Luckily, we have a big one who sees it—the government doesn't see it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e833	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e845	The size is then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e854	A total of 12 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-4, by Nils Kristen Sandtrøen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 5, from Ole André Myhrvold on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 6-12, from Per Espen Stoknes on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6-12, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to propose amendments to the laws on soil which provide real protection for arable land through a substantial reduction of the possibility of exemptions from the general requirement that cultivated and arable land not be used for purposes other than food production.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government requests that exemptions from the protection of arable land and arable land be granted only by a national planning authority.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose its own basis in the law on the soil to provide permanent protection for the most fertile food soil.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking the State to increase the resources and powers of the State to stop local decisions on the degradation of agricultural and arable land until a new law is in place.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to step up its efforts and to propose the statutory target for the degradation of food soils.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking for land relocation requirements and for the establishment of cropland and arable land areas lost, land migration is only to be used as a last resort and does not lead to a reduction of valuable nature.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for amendments to the laws of the land to facilitate the follow-up of violations of the laws of the land including the illegal dismantling of cultivated and arable land.’ The Socialist Left and Red have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e916	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-4, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to consider joining France’s ‘4 per 1000 initiative’ and its consequences and return to the matter in the revised national budget 2018.’» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to monitor the risk of international cereal supply failures and to provide an assessment of the situation each year in the context of the State budget.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to quantify the potential for food production conversion in Norway, calculated in case of cereal and feed imports and to quantify the potential for shifting consumption patterns in times of crisis, and to report this appropriately to the Stortinget.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to start work as soon as possible to introduce the emergency storage of food grain and to follow it up in the 2019 government budget.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e950	There is a vote on proposal No. Five from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for measures to be taken by the government to monitor in particular the re-disposal processes of arable land in municipalities that have been agreed on during the period leading up to the merger. The aim shall be to avoid the strategic re-disposal of arable land by municipalities in their part of the new municipality before the merger takes place.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e979	The President will draw attention to the fact that during the debate the wording of I was amended.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e996	The Greens and Reds have announced support for the vote. The President assumes that the Right, the Advance Party and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e1015	Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e1034	The Greens and Reds have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-06.ana.ud103e1087	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
