ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e94	The President makes it clear that there will be voting after case No. 1 and ask the representatives to remain in the Chamber. The representative, Fredric Holen Bjørdal, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. The representative of Arild Grande will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e106	On behalf of the representatives of Hadia Tajik, Lise Christoffersen, Eigil Knudsen, Svein Roald Hansen, Eirik Sivertsen, Rigmor Aasrud and myself, I am delighted to promote a proposal on the right of activity and the obligation of activity for social welfare recipients.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e111	The representative, Nicholas Wilkinson, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e116	On behalf of the major representatives Karin Andersen, Gina Barstad, Mona Lill Fagerås and myself, I would like to make a proposal to use the TRIPS agreement for the coercive licensing of Spinraza so that the SMA disease gets the medicine they need. I would ask that it be dealt with quickly in the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e121	The representative, Karin Andersen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e126	On behalf of Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Nicholas Wilkinson and myself, I propose to extend the right to start loans so that more young people can own their own homes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e131	The representative of Ms Maria-Karine Aasen-Svensrud will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e136	On behalf of the representatives of Lene Vågslid, Jan Bøhler, Kari Henriksen, Tuva Moflag, Torstein Tvedt Solberg, Lise Christoffersen, Masud Gharahkani and myself, I am delighted to make representation proposals to take concrete and binding action against violence and abuse against children.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e142	The representative of Ms Olug V. Bollestad will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e147	On behalf of Jorunn Gleditsch Lossius, Steinar Reiten, Knut Arild Hareide and myself, I will present a proposal for a representative on an offensive and solidarity policy on alcohol.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e152	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e159	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament on Thursday, and considers it to be adopted. The President will propose Svein Roald Hansen. – Other proposals are not available, and Svein Roald Hansen is unanimously elected president of Thursday’s meeting. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e179	The President first requests proposals for new members of the Electoral Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e184	I suggest Kent Gudmundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e189	Kent Gudmundsen has been proposed as a new member of the electoral committee after Nikolai Astrup, who has joined the government. Are there any more proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e196	I suggest Roy Steffensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e201	Roy Steffensen has been proposed as a new member of the Election Committee by Ulf Leirstein. Are there any more proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e208	I suggest Kari Elisabeth Kaski.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e213	Kari Elisabeth Kaski has been proposed as a new member of the electoral committee instead of Karin Andersen. Are there any more proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e220	I suggest Abid Q. Raja.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e225	Abid Q. Raja has been proposed as a member of the election committee after Trine Skei Grande, who has taken part in the government. Are there any more proposals? It doesn't, and the president suggests that it be voted in the usual way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e238	The President then asks for proposals for new alternates to the Electoral Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e243	I suggest Per-Willy Amundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e248	Per-Willy Amundsen has been proposed as a new alternate to the Electoral Committee. Are there any more proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e255	I propose to Mr Knag Fylkesnes and Mr Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e260	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes and Karin Andersen have been proposed as new alternates to the electoral committee. Are there any more proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e267	I suggest Ketil Kjeseth.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e272	And Guri Melby, maybe? [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e277	Yes. It was a test of the president.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e282	It's fine. Ketil Kjenseth and Guri Melby have been proposed as new alternates to the electoral committee. Are there any more proposals? Several proposals are not available, and the President proposes that we vote in the usual way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e305	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e321	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e337	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e353	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up for the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e362	I would like to start by thanking the members of the Committee for a good cooperation in compiling a common position for no less than four representative proposals, dealing with questions about teaching standards, the timing of competence requirements and the character requirements in mathematics for admission to the teacher's study. As can be seen in the vote, the proposal on the teaching norm will not be dealt with in substance, in line with the fifth paragraph of Section 38 of the Storting Rules of Procedure. I therefore do not want to directly affect the proposal. However, the setting still poses problems with the implementation of a teacher standard. It points to, among others: the competence requirements imposed and the admission requirements introduced for the training of teachers. I would therefore like to respond to some of the criticisms raised against the majority, assuming that the minority is making its point of view known. The issues addressed today are important for the long lines of creating a good school for all students. Training of teachers and quality requirements requires a long-term perspective. The unforeseeable nature of the last weeks and the political turnarounds of the Workers' Party therefore contribute badly to creating the necessary calm for the school — and the school framework — which must have predictability beyond our parliamentary term. It is simply not reliable, and I also have to justify why this is bad policy. The budgetary agreement between the government parties and the Christian People's Party ensures as well-known the qualifications and admission requirements for teacher training, and this is a policy that is very important for the government parties in terms of the goal of creating a better school for all students, and to ensure that in the work on increasing teacher density we do not lower our ambitions for the academic deepening of teachers. Most of the major research work supports the fact that one of the most important resources we can have in school is teachers with a high degree of professional security in their teaching subjects. It should therefore be our common ambition that all children, regardless of their place of residence, should be able to expect to receive instruction from a teacher with such depression. The triplet and the historical effort to continue training in recent years have resulted in some 20 000 teachers being trained so far. Now, until spring, there are about 6,000 more who finish their further education, and until the fall again, probably new 6,000 teachers start the same race. In 2014, the SSB estimated that, by introducing the competence requirements from 2015, 38 000 teachers would lack sufficient depression in Norwegian, English and mathematics. By the end of 2017, the number was already down to 27,800 teachers, a decrease of 3,400 teachers from 2016. Now, in the spring, 4 400 of the more than 6,000 teachers who take further education will have received it in just Norwegian, math and English. This rate suggests that the targets are well on track by 1 August 2025, while a much stronger focus on continuing training is being delivered in a number of other disciplines. So it's also going to be raised in width. It is interesting to note that the number of unskilled students in school almost doubled during the red-green period of government, despite the almost absence of quality-raising measures that required more teachers and temporary workers. In contrast, we, the Right Party of Advancement, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party, have now provided a historically strong commitment to continuing training and strengthening early efforts with more teachers, which will require us to need a little more temporary workers for a period of time. So far, experience suggests that increased requirements for admission to teacher studies since 2005 have contributed to a significant increase in the proportion of students completing education within six years — similarly, admission to the NTNU Civil Engineering Study has significantly improved their degree of implementation. There are therefore very good reasons to expect that an increase in uptake requirements will also contribute to the implementation in the future. As you know, implementation and access to teachers are closely linked. At home at the University of Tromsø there has been a pilot in masters training for teachers since 2010, and during the period there has been a strong increase in the search for the study, even after the introduction of a requirement of grade 4. With what is expected of natural take-off, KD's estimate is that in the autumn of 2018 we have a surplus of about 200 teachers from the 2018 coal. In addition, we have scholarship schemes in place for those who want to take PPU, who will be able to qualify to become teachers, and there are grant schemes of up to 150 000 kroner for targeted recruitment – to mention something. I'm not going to argue that it's going to be difficult to ensure many skilled teachers in line with our future goals, but a lot of evidence suggests that the big bet the non-socialist parties – up to the Christian People's Party – have now had within, for example. further training, competence requirements, admission requirements and the introduction of master training have contributed positively, thereby giving the school access to several competent teachers at the same time. Our children deserve it. And that's after all the people it's all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e383	Around the dinner table in the whole country, there are two questions that are repeated to school students in the country. Parents ask, what have you learned today, and how have you been at school? Those questions tell us something important. For parents who send children to school, it is important that children learn that they are safe and that they thrive at school. It is our responsibility as responsible politicians to ensure. To ensure a good common school, we need a lot of good qualified teachers. Unfortunately, we are now facing a serious teaching shortage, and the government's actions have not worked. There is now a falling search for primary school teacher education, especially at the level of the child, and the number of unqualified teachers in Norwegian classrooms has increased. The government has opened its eyes to increase the level of teacher deficiency. This is not an option for the Workers' Party. We see what's ahead of us, and we take hold. That is why we are today promoting ten concrete proposals to meet the teaching shortage and to reverse the trend. Unfortunately, the Progress Party, the Right and the Left vote against most of the proposals. There is a great need for more teachers in the years to come. The Christian People's Party's victory for the teaching norm is good, but it also reinforces the challenge of getting enough teachers at school and makes it necessary to have a power cap for recruiting and more trust in teachers. The working party wants more teachers. More teachers are needed to get early work done and for each student to be seen. This is a prerequisite for us in the debate on teaching standards, and we expect the government to deliver a standard of adequate funding in the revised budget. The Workers' Party also wants to remove the so-called separation of teachers trained before 2014. At the same time, we are strengthening other instruments to ensure the enhancement of competences. This we believe will help to restore confidence between teachers and authorities and provide solutions that will ease the time spent on what is most important in school: the learning and mastering of the students. In addition, we promote proposals to ensure that students are trained by formal teachers in the fields, to ensure that teachers are given a predictable commitment to continuing education and training, and to increase the country's share of funding for continuing education in the English and Norwegian subjects to 75 pst. It's naive to think that we're going to solve this teaching shortage and ensure many good enough qualified teachers without the teachers themselves. That is why it is ultimately about trust. Therefore, I do not believe that fewer teachers will now take part in continuing training. That scare image from the Party of Advancement and the Right is not correct. Demand for continuing education is high, and the search has been greater than the number of places for several years. The Labour Party also believes that it is wrong when this government has placed the responsibility and expectation of continuing training on the individual teacher. That is why we are proposing today that the responsibilities of the municipality should become clearer. All municipalities are planning to increase their competence, but only half of the municipalities are doing so now. It is totally unacceptable, and we will therefore make it mandatory for municipalities to draw up such plans. The Workers' Party will also assess new admission requirements for teacher training. Norway cannot afford to prevent young, motivated and good people who will become teachers from doing so. The right-hand party government's claim for four in math now looks like we haven't worked. You can have five in history and wish to become a history teacher, but don't get in because of the math character. That is why in the Labour Party we want to assess more accurate recording models, for example. higher scoring requirements or the introduction of character requirements in the disciplines in which they are to be immersed. Teachers shall have broad competence which cannot be limited to one character in a single subject. We have listened to the Federation of Education, the National Association of Schools, the Association of School Leaders and the National Council for Teacher Education, all of which believe that there are better ways to make the admission to teacher education than we have today. For the Workers' Party, the whole of school policy is important. The working party has seen the need to take action, we can't just go on like before. The introduction of a teaching norm alone means that we're going to need 2,500 new teachers, according to the Education Association. Rigid admission requirements in teacher training have contributed to a sad decline in the number of applicants, and now, when the skills requirements are retroactive, it increases teaching shortages and increases the use of unqualified in school. It's this whole thing that makes the Workers' Party now take hold. We understand that the Christian People's Party in the matters we are dealing with today has an agreement with the government, but as one sees, the opportunity lies here – the opportunity to remove the separation and to investigate new recording models if one wants it. We invite you to cooperate to meet that teaching shortage and ensure enough qualified teachers in Norwegian school. Finally, I would like to address the proposals made by the Labour Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e408	The representative Torstein Tvedt Solberg has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e413	There has been a good discussion on today's topic, with several rounds in this room, but also in the media, at the hearing and in meetings with organisations, and this has in some cases led to a healthy reflection on Norwegian school and quality requirements. As I have seen it, the implementation of the ten-year transition period has created the greatest commitment, but also the admission requirement for teacher training creates a little debate. There is a general consensus, as the rapporteur said, that the quality of teachers is the most crucial for good results in the classroom. A 2014 survey showed that many primary school teachers do not have formal competence in the subjects in which they teach. In total, thousands of teachers in one or more common subjects do not meet the qualifications requirements. This was some of the reasons why the Stortinge decided to demand that primary school teachers be immersed in primary schools. We in the Progress Party are followers of competence requirements for teachers in the Norwegian school, regardless of when they were trained, which means that all students should be taught by a teacher with depression in the basic subjects. The Progress Party will stress that there are many skilled teachers in school, but it is still a problem that so many teachers today lack depression, and we therefore believe it is right to make demands on teachers' employers, namely the school owners, to ensure teachers the skills they themselves have asked for for for many years. Clear skills requirements increase quality in Norwegian school and will affect pupils’ learning outcomes. We know that from continuing education surveys to meet skills requirements, where almost all teachers change teaching as needed, and where almost seven out of ten say they have become better teachers. This suggests that competence requirements for all contribute to better quality in school. Then it's not like the teacher's level of competence is something that's going to happen overnight. Both the Grand Duchy and the Government have been aware that, for both capacity and professional reasons, a long transition period is needed in order to introduce the competence requirements. Municipalities and county councils have therefore been given 10 years to meet the new requirements. At the same time as the new skills requirements were introduced, the number of continuing training places for teachers has actually increased by a triple from below the red-green. The effort to continue training shall be pursued in order to enhance the competence of teachers who so wish. In spring, approx. Six thousand teachers continue their training, and in the autumn about one thousand teachers start their training. 6000 new. 4 400 of those who go out in the spring would have taken further training in the subjects of Norwegian, math and English, subjects where there are requirements for immersion. At this rate, we are well prepared to achieve the targets by 2025. Finally, a little about admission requirements: in order to recruit teachers, we also need to recruit students who complete the education. From research we know that students with good grades in high school are better off for that very thing. We only need to go back to the changes in teacher training from 2005 when the requirement for grade 3 in Norwegian and math was introduced, in order to see a significant increase in the proportion of students completing education within six years. I hear many in this debate say that one is not so concerned about what the applicant can do when they start the study. The most important thing is what the student can do when he goes out, and that potentially skilled teacher students who do not meet the admission requirements do not have the opportunity to qualify, and that the school thus misses future, good teachers. Yes, there might be even more applicants if we removed all the requirements for learning. It says itself. But that's not the way to go if we're going to get the best students to become teachers in Norway's most important job. Typically high-quality education and occupations in common are difficult to access. It is then wrong that everyone should be able to come up with something as important as a teacher's education. I believe that the recording requirements we have set are correct and that strict competence requirements are right. I believe it is natural that they should apply also to those who are in school today, not just to those who are going to go to school tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e430	The proposals under consideration today do not have a majority, but this will not be the last stoppage for dealing with this type of proposal. There's a real majority in this room for you to remove the requirement of 4 in mathematics for learning, and it's a real majority for you to stop the separation of experienced good teachers that the government has set up. So this case does not end with the treatment today, this case is going to come up even on later occasions. We are in this situation that we are discussing the separation of nearly 30,000 skilled teachers – tell them that they are not good enough – while we actually have almost 4,000 non-qualified teachers who teach in today's school. One therefore gives notice to people who have worked for 20–30 years in Norwegian school and have done a good job of communicating and teaching their students, that they are not good enough to be in Norwegian school. The Prime Minister said quite rightly in the statement debate a few weeks ago that we all want our children to be taught by competent teachers. That means that those who have not taken the necessary study credits that the government wants are not competent, they are not good enough to teach our children sail if they may have been in Norwegian school and have done an excellent job for 20 years. I understand that kind of attitude provokes people who do an important job in Norwegian school every day. I am not opposed to competence requirements in Norwegian school – in no way. But the fact that you give it retroactive power in this way is very devastating. I think we're losing a teacher's resource, and I think that part of this category of teachers who are in Norwegian school today might be taking out a pension before they had to do it -- at a time when we need a workforce in the profession as long as they want and can. I think many of them are going to leave school at an earlier time, and that in that way we're losing a teacher's resource. The same applies to the proposal on requirements for 4 in mathematics for learning. There's probably someone who in today's debate would say that 4 in ordinary mathematics is not all the world to demand. But why do we just have to apply a grade 4 requirement in mathematics to get into the teacher's education? Why not in another basic subject, why not in Norwegian? And why don't we use the mean? I think that in the situation we are in the years to come, it's not about increasing the status of the teaching profession by making these kind of character requirements, but it's about getting as many motivated young people as possible to apply for teacher training and giving them the opportunity to become good teachers. Then the average of the characters might be the most important measurement basis we can have, because today it might be that one can actually have over 4 on average, but if one has 3 in mathematics, one is not good enough to become a teacher -- no matter how motivated a person is for doing. It's a strange attitude, it's an attitude I don't think we can afford in a situation where today's school lacks qualified teachers. The problem with what we are dealing with today is that at the top of these two requirements that the government has set here, it is such that one should introduce a teaching norm that will itself centralize teacher power and also create a lack of qualified teachers. According to educational news.no, only one in the municipality of Oslo has planned for 25 new teachers the next autumn, but according to the teacher's norm they must have a total of 500. How in all days is it going to jump? Where are they going to take those teachers' powers from? One thing is how it's financed, but one should actually find those teachers as well. One then takes them into competition with other municipalities, which also need qualified teachers. It's not hard to see how that drawing is going to be. It is not difficult to see that it is those areas of the country that may need the most teaching resources in the years to come, including: municipalities in the north of Norway and in the north of Trondelag – my own county – that will be left with the completely unqualified teachers to teach our children. At all, the sum of government policies is irresponsible. They are now taking measures that, in total, will provide us with a crisis related to teacher recruitment in a few years' time. They just don't have an overview. We asked about the consequences of this in the budget. They then refer to what will happen in relation to the revised national budget. They indicate that they are now going to review it in the future, but they do not have a full overview of what the sum of these measures will mean for the lack of teacher power in Norwegian school in the years to come. It's a problem. With this, I would like to include the proposal of the Centre Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e447	The representative of Marit Arnstad has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e452	When I was going to make today's posts, I made it very simple for myself, because the simple thing is often the best. I brought up the representative proposal from the Christian People's Party, which was delivered last autumn, that new skills requirements are not being given retroactive effect, and that we change the character requirements in mathematics for admission to teacher education. It is because these are quite good proposals that I could not agree more with. The proposal of the Christian People's Party states that today's requirements of competence apply to all primary school teachers who teach mathematics, English and Norwegian, with a time-limited derogation from the requirements for teachers trained before 2014, for 10 years. It also states that it is important to strengthen school competence through clear skills requirements for teachers, and increased continuing training for teachers is necessary. On the other hand, it is highly skeptical of the way in which the requirements have been introduced and is opposed to the fact that the requirements have to be retroactive, so that teachers with approved education and long experience are at risk of losing their teaching skills. In addition, Norwegian school loses valuable experience and skilled teachers. The proposal says that the new requirements for teachers are mandatory for continuing education, without having received a corresponding and real right to further education, since this is up to any school and school owner. It is also said that today there are about 33,000 teachers in school who do not meet the new skills requirements. These are teachers in Norwegian school and the students need. The Christian People's Party's proposal further states that in the autumn of 2016 the government raised the character requirement of the subject of mathematics in order to qualify for teacher training from 3 to 4. The government made this change despite the fact that Norway has a great need for teachers. According to the Central Statistical Office, there will be a shortage of 3,600 teachers in 2035. In 2016, the number of qualified applicants for teacher training is almost 4 pst. 550 study places were empty, which is a double before the character requirement was introduced. Norway needs more teachers at school. Exclusion of motivated and potentially skilled students from teacher training does not help to achieve this goal. It is also said that the special requirement in mathematics leads to students with good prerequisites for becoming skilled teachers in both social sciences, Norwegian and history losing their right to do so. The result of the government's character requirements is that schools have to hire more unskilled to teach our kids. It is worrying when you already know that there are 3,500 unskilled teachers in charge of over 1.4 million hours in Norwegian elementary school. The proposers from the Christian People's Party are very concerned about having a good teacher training that educates skilled teachers, but believe that it is preferably the quality of teacher training to ensure this, and not the politically defined character requirements in a single subject. These two proposals are now supported by a majority in this Chamber. I believe it is a crisis for the teacher recruitment that we do not get them adopted. I had hoped that the Christian People's Party could do what they promised the voters in the election campaign, namely to vote for the matters for which they are in favour, and against the matters against which they are opposed. In conclusion, however, I would like to criticise the government, which is running a political game that affects the school – moving forward with its own symbolism policy, a policy against which the Education Association, the SL and the educational students warn, a policy that is at the expense of our young people, who still have to thank for being taught by temporary workers without teacher training. I refer to the SV's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e475	The representative of Mona Lill Fagerås has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e480	During the red-green government period, the number of unskilled in Norwegian school almost doubled. After the 2013 elections, we were given a course change in Norwegian school policy, and the government, in cooperation with the Christian People's Party, has been given a historic shift where resources previously used for late work are now channelled into a new norm for teacher density and early work in primary school. The goal is that from the autumn of 2019 there will be one teacher per 15 students in 1–4. class and one teacher per 20 pupils in 5-10. class. Many municipalities are already monitoring how many teachers need a level of professionalism and how many years of work and jobs they need. We know that new standards bring challenges to implementation – so is this one. Of course, one of the short-term challenges will be finding enough qualified teachers to meet the norm. And the norm is to be evaluated along the way. It's a plan for compensation to the municipalities. We work for no municipalities to lose on the introduction of the norm. Norway is at the top of OECD countries in terms of the use of resources in schools, but has been largely on average in terms of outcomes and performance among students. This is about to change. Figures from recent years suggest that students learn more and perform better than in the past. And with fewer students in each class you will be able to adapt the teaching more to the individual – both the schoolgirls and the schoolgirls. This is a significant rise for the whole primary school, and an equivalent rise for all pupils, which provides a good basis for students’ further development opportunities. The teacher is the main resource in Norwegian school. Research shows that the teacher's competence and relation to each student is the greatest single factor in ensuring a good school for all, and thus the priority has been to focus on the content of the school and especially on the teachers. Figures from the Primary School Information System, GSI, show that by the end of 2017, there were about 1,600 more teachers, in the last two years. About 20,000 teachers have further education. For spring, approx. 6000 teachers finish their further training and, until the autumn, a further 6,000 teachers are likely to start. In total, continuing training contributes to the entry of several qualified teachers into the classrooms. And at this rate, you see that you're on the right track to achieve your goals by 2025. When I was a schoolgirl, I thought that being a teacher must be one of the world's best professions. Later I thought it was one of the most important professions. Teachers are involved in shaping new generations. And many of us the lion satellites have done us well because the knowledge resources we lacked at home, we found at the school of the teachers. Some claim that retrospective requirements of competence are the separation of good teachers. This worries me. Raising skills is a matter for a large number of professional groups. No one is talking about the separation of doctors, who have to update regularly. Who really wants to come to a doctor who doesn't want to update? My father, who had previously been able to repair any car, picked it apart and put it together again, could never make it clear today. Today the cars are complicated computers, and a completely different competence is required to repair them. Craftsmen must also be trained in new standards. – So it’s not just teachers who are expected to do so in terms of competence. Teachers with professional immersion in their teaching subjects are the most important resource we can have in Norwegian school, which is supported by international research. Therefore, we must not regard skills requirements as a threat, but as an opportunity and an assurance of up-to-date knowledge – for the benefit of students and staff teachers. Of course, many good teachers lack formal skills, but with a professional ballast, it is easier to ensure that all children, regardless of their place of residence, get the same quality of learning. Competence requirements must take into account pupils and must apply to all teachers. There are no children who deserve to have less competent teachers. New times bring new knowledge, new challenges and new expectations. And we all have to use the opportunity to re-train ourselves in order to gain more competence. It makes us better professionals. What makes knowledge providers better is also good for schoolchildren.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e509	The Christian People's Party wants a school where the children are to be formed into whole people, who have understanding of others and society and will participate in building the communities of the future. For the Christian People's Party, the introduction of the teaching norm is an important commitment for our children to be seen in a school about more than grades and professional achievements. If we are to do this, more teachers are needed to see the individual, build relationships and adapt training to the needs of the students. Teachers, parents and students have for a long time seen the alarming need for more teachers in school. The Christian People's Party has listened to their experiences and recommendations and fought in place a teaching norm because our children deserve it. The Christian People's Party has a clear expectation and belief that the government will ensure that the teaching norm is introduced in line with the budget decision, along with good recruitment measures to provide more teachers for the school. Then I record that according to Nrk.no the Center Party Marit Arnstad “swings the spanish tube” over, among other things. Christian People's Party, because, in her opinion, we 'look tactically at school policy'. The fact that the implementation of the largest school reform in this millennium is to be characterised as tactical because we have not had an impact on all the demands of the budgetary negotiations with the government parties seems to me to be a strange description of the facts. I have to ask, where do we have Arnstad and the Center Party in the struggle for the introduction of a teaching standard that can provide fewer students per teacher in school? Based on the position we're discussing today, I see most questions, doubts and concerns from the Center Party about the introduction of a teacher's norm. Is it true that the Centre Party does not really want the introduction of a teaching norm that can give all children equal access to the school's most important resource? As regards the competence requirements for teaching Norwegian, math, English, Sami and Norwegian sign languages, we support them. The point we've been against, and still is against, is that these requirements should be retroactive. It affects skilled teachers who have been employed in school for many years and have done a good job. Although a window of time has been given up to 2025 to acquire the skills you lack, it is nevertheless a stamping of skilled teachers who experience unfairness. The Christian People's Party fears that reinforced skills requirements will reinforce teaching shortages and lead to more qualified teachers taking jobs outside the school. The Teacher Code requires effective recruitment measures. Therefore, it is also in the agreement between the Christian People's Party and the government parties that the government should come up with measures to ensure that as many qualified teachers as possible fill the classrooms in the future. We look forward to it, and the Christian People's Party is happy to help. We know that the introduction of mentoring for newly-trained teachers can prevent failure after the first year of work. Start-up of decentralised teacher training in the districts can recruit people who would not normally apply to educational institutions, while at the same time helping to ensure stable labour force in the district of Norway. In addition, wages should be used more actively as a means of increasing recruitment and increasing the status of the teaching profession. With the fourth requirement in mathematics, there is reason for concern that potentially skilled teachers are either not applying for teacher training or applying and not coming in. Desperate students have stood up and told about their motivation to become a teacher, with good grades in all subjects except math, but they are cut off from becoming a teacher. But the same could be true teachers in high school, college and university if they choose to go to master's courses other than general teacher education. It's a cross of thought. The match security of grade 4 in mathematics as a recording requirement is not well documented. Instead, the focus should be on the quality of education itself, the belief in its ability to shape and form and also to open up en route those who are not suitable for the teaching profession. I hope that even if this requirement persists after today, one can open up to experimental schemes in the future where teacher training institutions can apply for alternative admission schemes, schemes where one can derogate from the 4th requirement in mathematics and instead establish close follow-up of the students, where both professional requirements and otherwise requirements for suitability are made, in order to provide more opportunities for admission and to ensure better recruitment to teacher training. Because the Christian People's Party has won a big victory for the children in primary school through the introduction of the teaching norm from the autumn of 2018, we have also accepted through negotiations with the government parties that the qualifications and admission requirements for teacher training will be as they are today. This does not mean that we have changed our view, but that we respect and relate to the consensus we have reached in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e530	I am pleased that this setting provides a basis for calmness and predictability of skills requirements and admission requirements for teacher training. Continued political resurgence on key issues in school policy neither gives students, students, teachers, schools nor school owners the predictability they need to develop a better school. In the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party, there was agreement to introduce a standard of teacher's density in primary school. I am looking at how such a standard of teaching can be introduced in line with the Storting decision, and a proposal will be sent to the hearing in a short time. I therefore do not go into this any further. The most important thing for us to get a school where students learn more is teachers who, in addition to having good pedagogical skills, have solid professional skills. We know that there is a link between the skills of the teachers and the learning outcomes of the students. I therefore believe that we must demand that those who teach at school also have depression in the subjects in which they teach. This is most important for those students who need the most both school and skilled teachers. The size opened in 2015 so that it would be possible to apply immersion requirements to all fixed teachers, regardless of when they were fully trained. Municipalities have been given good time to comply with the new requirements. The government's objective is that all schools should be able to meet the requirements of professional competence over a period of 10 years. The state's commitment to continuing training has risen sharply to facilitate this. I stress that it is the school owners who must ensure that professional competence is in place. It is not the responsibility of the individual teacher at school, as the Workers' Party claims. This is important for me to be clear on. None of the teachers who have worked in school until now have become, or will become, unqualified as teachers. The right thing is that in the future the skills requirements will lead to the subjects in which they can teach. For the same reason, the concept of ‘separation’ is not only false; it contributes to the creation of undue uncertainty among teachers and parents. I recall that the requirement of professional immersion contributes to the priority of the municipalities for further education. In 2017, the figure was about 6,000. This is more than a triple compared to when the red-greens sat in government. Several of the students who have been successful at school should apply for the most important profession, namely the teaching profession. We know that there's a connection between what students can do when they start the teacher's study, and what they can do when they finish the study. Students meeting with high expectations also make demands on themselves and contribute to the development of teacher education and schooling. Therefore, the character requirements for admission to teacher training in the long term will provide more and better teachers. Teacher training institutions have now gained experience of higher admission requirements. When increased admission requirements were introduced 14 years ago, there was no need for warnings. However, the experience is that the search takes place when students adapt to the requirements. The character requirement 4 in mathematics relates to the simplest mathematics from high school. For students who have passed a programme in mathematics, there is no character requirement for admission to these courses. The budget agreement in the autumn clearly states that today's teacher training, including the current recording requirements, will continue to be used in the future. In our new government platform, no changes have been made to this recording requirement. I am pleased that there is now a majority to maintain the character requirement, both because I believe it will provide more and better teachers, and because it creates peace and predictability.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e553	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e558	For the Workers' Party, the whole of school policy is important. That's why we've now seen the need to take action. Now it's not possible just to continue as before. The introduction of teaching standards means that we alone will need 2,500 new teachers, according to the Education Association. Rigid admission requirements in teacher training have contributed to a sad decline in the number of applicants and, when the skills requirements are retroactive, increases teaching shortages and increases the use of unqualified in school. It's this whole thing that makes the Workers' Party now propose grip. I'm actually a little surprised, because the Workers' Party has tended to have the company of the Right in being concerned with the whole of school policy. I've asked the Prime Minister about the same thing without getting answers, so I'm trying to ask again: when can we really expect the Right again to be fully involved in school policy and see the need to take action?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e565	Right is concerned with the whole of school policy, but unlike the Workers' Party, we're not doing that wing. In the last period, the Labour Party tried to imitate the Right School Policy. During this period, the Workers' Party is trying to imitate SV's school policy. Less than one year ago, the Workers' Party wanted to introduce the character 4 as a recording requirement also in Norwegian. The Workers' Party is now opposed to recording requirements both in Norwegian and in mathematics. This is winging, and that's all but what Norwegian school needs, that's all but what our students need. I strongly disagree with the Labour Party, which will lower the requirements and lower the ambitions of Norwegian school and Norwegian students. We have to raise the ambitions of the students and the schools in the future. The school, the students, the students don't need the Wing of the Workers' Party. They need the Right and the government predictability.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e573	I can assure you that in the Workers' Party we have our own school policy. We've seen the situation that is now, and we've seen the need to address it. But I'm not really very surprised that the Council of State had no answer to my question. Because in the post there was a lot of description, there were some excuses, but there was no concrete grip. I have also read through the government platform as a controller. It also says very little about the concrete one's desire to do. And had the whole thing been important to the Right, one might have had a plan, some concrete suggestions to point to, so that one could actually answer the question. But it's not a plan. So I ask again, when is the plan to increase recruitment? When does the plan come to reduce the number of unqualified people? Right, Progress Party, Left – they are voting today against our concrete proposals to do something about this now. Why can't the Right be involved in our proposals? When does this really come up with a plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e580	We have a plan, and we implement that plan. We've tripled the number of teachers who get further education since the red-green crash. There are over 6,000 teachers now undergoing further training. And the teachers themselves say that they become better teachers, that the students learn more, because they do further education. We have implemented a system in which teachers also receive written off student loans. We have implemented – and we are going to implement – recruitment measures, and we will also discuss it with the Christian People's Party, our good ally in Stortinget. The challenge is that the Workers' Party has no plan. The Labour Party continues to play a role in school policy and operates and positions itself in relation to other parties. In the last period, the Right Workers' Party tried to imitate. Today, the Workers' Party is trying to imitate SV or the party Red in school policy. There's not much respect for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e587	The biggest problem in Norwegian school today is not qualified teachers who are now facing demand for skills with retroactive effect and who are almost separated. That's not the big problem. The problem is the proportion of non-qualified teachers in Norwegian school. In its speech, the Council of State said that increased teaching resources were particularly important in those areas where there is a high need to improve quality. Yeah, it's the same areas that have the largest share of non-qualified teachers in school. And it's also in that part of the country that probably will lose most teachers because of the new teaching norm, because they have to be picked up from somewhere, the teachers who are going into that teaching norm, and that, among other things. enter Oslo. So today's precariousness is the context of the government's proposal. The council says the government has a plan. Has the government compiled an overview of the impact of the teaching norm on the distribution of teachers between the different states, and thus also the possibility of an increase in unqualified school workforce?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e596	The representative Arnstad knows the answer to that. We are now implementing the teacher's norm. We sent out a letter to the municipalities last week, where we outlined the plan for this work, and we will soon get the regulations for the teaching norm out at the hearing. And we've constantly announced that this will come in the revised national budget. But it's a little bit alarming that the Center Party is now so very concerned about the number of unqualifieds. The number of unqualified sessions with 80 pst. When the Center Party was in government! Now it's flattened out. With our great commitment to continuing education, we now see in the last year that the number of unqualified people has flattened out, so it's 4.4 pst. of the unqualified annual works. We are now implementing a plan for further training. This means that more students will meet safe, professionally strong teachers. It's important, and it's most important for those who need the school most.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e606	Now, when the Council of State stands here so clever and says in its statement that the government has a plan, one would expect that the Council of State, when he is standing in the staging room, can also explain that plan. Instead, he refers to the revised national budget. So one doesn't have such an obvious plan anyway. And that's what's a little bit of a problem here, that the government is now involved in adopting things that you don't know the consequences of. Is it e.g. right that Oslo will need 500 new years of teaching with the teacher code? Where are the teachers to be picked up? To be taken from counties such as Nord-Trøndelag, or are they to be taken from the Nordic counties, and what does that mean for the proportion of unqualified students teaching in the schools in the counties? Does the government have any overall overview of it at all, or is it such that the plan gets a little bit on the road while a walk goes, and then hopes that it is ready when a person comes to the revised national budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e613	When I hear about Marit Arnstad, I'm a little in doubt about what the Central Party really means in this matter. Is it true that the Center Party is against becoming more teachers in primary school? The government parties made an agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party on the budget last fall, and this was the great victory of the Christian People's Party. And when we make a deal with the Christian People's Party, I intend to make it happen. When I talk about a plan, it's our plan to make sure that we get more safe, professionally strong teachers in school, and we implement that plan. There is a high rate of further training through recruitment measures, including: by writing off student loans to teachers. This is going to work, we're going to see more capable teachers in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e621	Norway is in great need of more teachers, to whom several representatives have been present today. According to the Central Bureau of Statistics, we will lack 3,600 teachers in 2035. At the same time, many places in teacher training are empty, and there is reason to believe that the 4th requirement in mathematics is one reason for this. Exclusion of motivated and potentially skilled teachers does not help to achieve the goal of more teachers. Would not an average say more about what general knowledge is needed to get into teacher training and become a good teacher in the future – said more about who one was – than this one character, which turns out so wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e626	It's a myth that there should be so many more study places empty now than it did before. As regards the number of students who met for primary education in the autumn of 2017, it was at the level of the number in 2013. It was slightly lower than in 2014 and 2015, but higher than in 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2016. So this isn't a new problem. But I'm convinced that now that we're raising the ambitions for Norwegian school, it's also going to be more attractive to apply for the teaching profession. The last Norwegian school now needs to be implemented one year, the next year eliminates demands and the third year implements new demands again. Now we have to have some ice in our stomachs, now we have to stick to the line we've decided, and for which there's a majority in this room. It creates predictability for students, for educational institutions, for schools and for teachers. We're going to implement what it's a majority for in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e633	Today we know that a proportion of newly educated teachers leave school for the benefit of other jobs in the first two years of school. In order to meet the teaching standards on the number of pupils per teacher and to continue government policy on admission requirements and skills requirements, the Christian People's Party has pointed to the need for action that can help fewer newly educated teachers to leave school. One of the measures proposed by both the Pedagogical Students and the Christian People's Party is to launch a mentoring system, where an experienced teacher with tutoring training is given a certain percentage to be able to use the time to guide and follow up the fresh teachers. Is this a measure that the Council of State sees positively and will consider as one of the recruitment measures to ensure that we have more teachers in primary school in the years to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e640	I am open to discuss various proposals with the Christian People's Party on how we can increase recruitment to the teaching profession – and not least get more people to stand in the teaching profession. Together, we have implemented important measures. If we look at the new five-year master's education, we'll see that one with a lecturer's competence will get NOK 70,000 more in the initial salary. The measures adopted by the government parties and the Christian People's Party on the deduction of student loans mean that one who has carried out in a normal time will receive up to DKK 160 000 in student loans. These are important measures, which I think will work over time. We are open to discuss other actions together with the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e645	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e652	There are several good suggestions that unfortunately don't seem to get a majority here. I want to start by asking, how many in this room have the grade 4 or better in mathematics? I myself have a six in mathematics and I'm a math teacher, and I'm so competent enough to teach myself and become a teacher in physics, Norwegian, religion or whatever it is. But those with a six in physics, Norwegian or religion can't be teachers in their subjects if they don't have a four in mathematics. The central party believes that school credits would be a better response for all professional combinations the teacher student had to want to take in his education. Teacher training is now five years old. The government is more concerned with taking political action than with evaluating the development of education. It's not many years since the last conversion. Before we have seen the effect of both recruitment, the number that goes out and stays in the profession, and then the actual impact on the students' everyday lives, we are in the process of a new teacher training. Teacher training was good enough by three years, but then it had to be four more years, and now it's five years and master's degree. Is everyone who's good at business good at people? Is everyone who's good with people having to get a certificate of competence on that? The centre party is too competent, but we don't think we should be blind to academic competence when, at the end of the day, it's as much about fitness and communication as professional weight. Once again, the government will have a retrospective impact on competence requirements. Increasing a skill requirement in itself should be highly professionally anchored, in order not to talk about the demand. Have we had a group of teachers who want more competence and don't feel like they're stretching to? No, no, no. On the other hand, we have a teaching corps that today have transferred 36,450 signatures to members of the Education and Research Committee, because they feel that their authority is being undermined. The Center Party understands that well. There is a queue for continuing training, as the means to send teachers on course to receive just this qualification are too small. Teachers need time and confidence to do their job — not competence requirements, reporting requirements or over-management. The teacher’s norm comes to the fore, as a measure where the intention is good. We want to guarantee that teachers have fewer students to handle in their classes, and that they get to follow up every student with the resources they need. The problem is that the proposal has only been sold to the highest bidder, where we have a demand for competence with retroactive effect. The challenge will now be to recruit the teachers the government thinks are competent enough, at all schools throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e665	There are many single factors that can help students learn at school. The most important thing, however, is for teachers with a high level of competence, good school management and a good professional community in schools. It is particularly important for recruiting and retaining graduates in the sector. So it seems to be counterproductive to lower the requirements to become a teacher when we know that the newly educated person will be included in a professional community. Setting competence requirements is not separation. It is to recognise the importance of the competence and professional security of teachers for thousands of students. It is also about recognising the importance of education. Almost all teachers who have taken part in further education in recent years say that they have changed teaching methods, and they feel that they have become better teachers. That doesn't mean they were bad teachers before. We are living in a time of major social and technological change, and very many occupational groups will experience new demands for skills and change. The most important thing for the teaching profession is therefore to triple the number of teachers who receive continuing education and to invest in five-year teacher training. The working party has returned. Now they are even more of the measures of the government's teacher's vow. I am one of the foremost to say that there is no shame in turning around, but Norwegian policy does not need politicians who turn around every time they face opposition, and who do not dare to see the effect of a decision over time. It was particularly revealing when the Workers' Party's representative, Tvedt Solberg, defended the spin-off that this is the first step towards repatriation of the Workers' Party's school policy. So after more than four years of opposition and an election campaign asking for the voter's trust, the Workers' Party has now decided to find its own school policy – and they start by rejecting professional demands for teachers who are the school. It's not creating a whole. It's weakening the knowledge dimension in school. I think it's unfortunate not only for the students, who should meet a teacher with depression, but also for the teacher's prophecy, because trust and methodological responsibility in the teacher's pros are closely linked to professional weight and leadership in the schools. The key to avoiding more detailed local management is precisely the competence of teachers and good management. Competence requirements and stricter admission to teacher training may feel unreasonable in some individual cases, but by setting these essential requirements one can ensure a better professional community in the schools, an increased status of the teaching profession and a more knowledge-based education. It is an investment in the future school, and sometimes long-term investment is better than meeting short-term needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e678	There are more in this debate that have addressed the challenges facing qualified teachers in some areas of this country, and not least by providing enough teachers. I'm from the part of the country that might cut poorly both on the figures you've set for what the students should have learned, have lower scores on implementation and, in addition, major gaps in teacher skills. That deficiency will not be reduced in the future. And what is the government choosing to deliver as a result? Well, they choose to deliver a result that ensures that there are even more unskilled teachers in school and even more vacancies in the north. They thus ensure that we do not receive enhanced teacher training and thus also in the long term a higher level of competence among our students. That's what we're really talking about -- what we want our children to learn. It is the debate that should be taken to a higher level instead of saying that there are unilateral requirements for teacher training that determine whether the children receive a good education in Norwegian school. It is really said in the debate that as long as there are high enough requirements for learning, no matter how much time you have to be a teacher, it gives you better education for Norwegian students, while what is at the top of the Norwegian teachers' wish list is more time for the individual, to be able to contribute to the individual's learning appetite, not necessarily what you had when you started learning. For the Central Party, this is not about opposing competence, but we believe that the sum of the requirements that are now being introduced is not going to provide increased quality in Norwegian school. It's not that the secondary school of the individual gets better by increasing character requirements. It's not that it's getting better by introducing a teacher's norm. On the contrary, we will see that the standard of teaching results in the centralisation of teaching resources, thus increasing the risk of fewer schools becoming around in Norwegian districts, which will pose even greater challenges in providing these young people with a sufficiently good education. What we were supposed to discuss was how many more teachers we really need, and how we make sure we get more. At least for my part, the conclusion is that it's not necessarily that increased teacher requirements are going to give more teachers. As a result, there will be no better time for the individual in Norwegian school, nor will we be able to improve the quality of education.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e691	The Labour Party presents the requirement for 4 in the simplest mathematics of admission to teacher and teacher training as an unattainable requirement for future teachers. But it's not like the door to the teacher's study is closed if you were to get 3 and not 4 in mathematics in high school. For these students, we have arranged for them to take an advanced course and qualify. Why math, it was asked here earlier. Well, because that's what most people have to contend with. Every fourth tenth grade leaves high school with 1 or 2 in math. SV believes that developing the school in the direction of professional teachers and specialists in all disciplines and at all stages could lead to students having to deal with a wide range of professionals from the first grade, and that a teacher’s role should therefore be maintained, which should continue to have a broad professional competence. All right, but at the same time, they're going to scrape the requirement of 4 in math because they don't think it makes sense for teachers who are going to teach in Norwegian to know something about math. So what competence should this high school teacher have? Introducing requirements for a course of study is also about preparing students for a demanding course of study. Before introducing the national delecation in mathematics, the number of strokes was over 50 pst. in the case of individual trainings. Setting character requirements helps students to have the prerequisites for a better implementation of the study. I have been teaching nurses in medical and science for many years. Several of my students were advised to apply for the nursing school because they were such good caregivers. Meeting the requirements of these higher education subjects, it was hard for those who did not have a good enough background from higher education. It is misleading to claim that teachers can only work hard in the course of the study, so they will develop good skills in math. The consequences of deletion and delay in the course of the study can be great for the individual. Let's be honest with future students: Higher education is demanding, and even more demanding if you have to fill up with in-depth knowledge. When only 36 pst. If teacher training is completed in normal time and four out of ten fall from the way, it is not useful to make it easier to enter the teacher’s study. We need more knowledge and competence in school, and then we have higher demands for the teacher. Once again, if you can't communicate the drug, it doesn't help to be a great educator. We can't play games with Norwegian school. Both character requirements and competence requirements contribute to highly professional teachers in the classroom. It's most important for those students who need the school and the teacher the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e710	I have followed the debate carefully, and I find it hard to see that those who do not want the skills requirements for all teachers, and who do not want the entry requirement 4 in the simplest, practical mathematics, have actually provided very convincing arguments. The debate on the teaching norm I leave, other than pointing out that the government will come back to the Stortinget, as mentioned earlier. I believe that in my first post I have made it clearly visible that although it will be challenging, we are on the right track to deliver towards our goal. To take the character requirement first: I hope you have found that UiT, who has had the master's training for a long time and now also with the character requirement 4, experiences good search and good flow. To the subject of mathematics: once again, I'm going to promise that this is P-mat. 1P-matt overlaps 80 pst. with 10th grade mat in primary school – 80 pst. If you're going to be a teacher, and you're going to be teaching in the social sciences, the natural sciences, yes, Norwegian, a number of other subjects, basic mathematics will be very central if you're going to follow the students, in most subjects. It's usually only passed if you've chosen social or science mats in higher education. In addition, the forward rates organised, which have been organised by several, provide additional possibilities and valves in this system. Some suggest that the increased ambitions contribute negatively to the search – in fact, on the contrary, I would say. Skewing to UiT has led to a massive increase in the search for the teacher’s study. Let's not forget either that with these students we also get increased flow. It's all about our ability to recruit more teachers after graduation, not just getting more applicants. That's after all the number of teachers that we have at our disposal, which must be the measuring stick. This really puts it all in perspective, and the matter is pretty simple. Do we want all our young people – no matter where they live, no matter what school they attend, no matter how good their parents may have – to meet by 2025 with a teacher who has depression in the teaching subjects of Norwegian, English or mathematics, with the massive training effort in much more subjects? My answer is simple: Yes, of course we should be able to demand it. It is also part of the debate that parents, through for example. The parental committee for initial training believes that the competence requirements should actually apply to all subjects, not just Norwegian, English and mathematics. In principle, it's easy to understand the parents' vision. The more difficult it must be for them to understand why no more support the ambitions they have for Norwegian school and their children in education.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e719	This is one of the most important debates we have on quality in school. Betting the big resources, the big money to invest in school is very important. Giving all children and young people a good start to life and the long learning process is crucial to what society we're going to have in the future, and not least for the development and start of life of the individual. Good and safe schooling is crucial for us, because if you get through high school in a good way. Of course, it's not just one solution to this. As the Council of State said, that's anything but what the Right stands for, that's anything but what this government stands for. We need to have modern and adapted schools with new learning materials that contribute to good learning and good mastering at school. Today, when the Labour Party is promoting ten proposals to improve school skills, it is of course in terms of improving school quality. That's all but sitting still. As both father and grandfather, it is important to me that my children and grandchildren have been and are safe at school, and that they thrive at school, that they learn every day and are motivated to go to school. Then we need many enough teachers and good enough teachers, who are motivated to inspire and teach all children at school. Early efforts are essential in order to achieve these objectives of good learning throughout school. Of course, it is important to make demands on current and future students and teachers. It is important that the requirements are not perceived unfairly and dissuadingly. My good neighbour, Nils Arne Eggen, said that it was not possible to hit tall, long balls at Mini, because then he was both unmotivated and failed to achieve his goals. The Workers' Party will continue to work to enhance teachers' competences. To identify the municipalities as school owners and drivers of the school is necessary so that they know the competence of the teacher. Of course it is, and they should also motivate teachers to take up professional development and further training. It must also contribute to the involvement of the State in the financing of such a empowerment. Norwegian teachers need not be threatened with continuing training and updating. As Nils Arne Egg said, it is not possible to scare people into becoming good. They must be motivated to do so, and it must be learned. The working party will meet the teaching shortage with increased recruitment, and urgent action is needed. I hear the council say, I have a plan. We've heard it many times before, maybe from another team as well. These plans have not led to anything good. Not appreciating the real skills of several thousand teachers in Norway, who have worked up for many years in school, is not an answer to the teaching shortage. It helps to discourage today's teachers and tomorrow's teachers. The working party will rather motivate today's teachers by helping to raise the status of the teaching profession.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e733	We should be able to agree on three things. First of all, if we're going to solve the teaching shortage, we have to think new and offensively, and we have to act quickly. Secondly, no one in this room is against continuing education and training – Norwegian teachers do not have to be threatened with continuing education and updating, they want it themselves. Thirdly, when the teachers tell us about a genuine experience of central government mistrust, it's the politicians' job at least to listen to it. There are good reasons to have expectations for professional updates in school. The majority has unanimously voted in favour of more resources for continuing training. No teacher has protested that politicians expect to increase their skills. The Workers' Party is in favour of the competence of teachers, but will remove the so-called separation of teachers trained before 2014. We're doing that by finding a different and better way to the goal. The goal is to have full pressure on school competence and to have qualified teachers who can train, who can learn away and who can involve the students. But we want to strengthen other instruments to do that. I think it is a pity that the Right Party and the Advance Party are closing their eyes to all possibilities other than those they have convinced themselves of. It's a good idea to listen. When you're about to develop the school, it's wise to bring the people who do the job, the teachers. We're moving towards a teaching shortage that will be reinforced by the teaching norm, which the government is actually opposed to. The government has been heading towards it for four years and has done little to counteract it. In the government platform presented, the recruitment of teachers was mentioned once. There is no evidence that a government is going to have full pressure to get more teachers into school. The teaching norm, which reinforces the challenge, is not mentioned once, and despite the fact that the Christian People's Party has called the main school policy decision in this millennium. The combination of the lowest teacher training application since 2009, a high drop in many teacher training courses, some places over 40 p.p., and the fact that six out of 10 teachers are not in the profession five years after completion of education are serious. While the government is talking about qualified teachers, the opposite is happening in school today. The use of unqualified persons is higher than 15 years old. To the government parties and to the Minister of Knowledge's reality: the use of unskilled and unqualified people rose during the early years of red-green government, and then it was reduced again by active policies. That's what's missing now. That's why there are more unqualified teachers in school than in 15 years, and the most serious thing is that the government has no plan. It sounds a bit like an episode of The West Wing – a secret plan to fight inflation. We hope to see soon the plan from the Minister of Knowledge and the government for how we're actually going to get more teachers into school and recruit more. The Labour Party has put forward ten proposals in this case, four of which are about getting more teachers recruited. The government has decided to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e746	I must say that the rhetoric used in this matter amazes me. It is said that we do not trust the teachers, that we do not respect the competence they have, that we separate teachers, and that symbolism policies go beyond our children. This isn't about any of it at all. They're pretty provocative assertions. On the contrary, what we are doing is to implement good quality measures for Norwegian school, not least with a new teacher training and a record of continuing training for teachers – for the best of our children. This is about wanting even more competence in Norwegian school, because we know that good skills combined with good pedagogical skills mean so much to the students who are going to have the education, and not least to the students who need it the most. In the election campaign, the debate on the skills requirements went high, and the super teacher Håvard Tjora was frustrated, to say the least, by the requirements of competence. But in an article he actually described very well himself why good professional competence is so important. He wrote: "I had art and crafts over several years, and I thought I was doing it right, until I saw what an outcast art and crafts teacher did, there was a clear class difference." And as the good Inge Wage once said, ‘No one is so good at teaching that he is able to teach others something he cannot himself.’ That's exactly what this is about. Of course, a teacher with good skills will be able to teach the students in a better way than a teacher with no professional qualifications. The teachers want this. After all, the teachers who have completed continuing training are almost unambiguous and say that they have changed their teaching. Seven out of ten say they've become a better teacher. They also say, as one said: "Everybody gets better. If you're a good teacher, you'll get even better." Nor is it the case that a good educator becomes a poorer educator by gaining increased professional competence. Here we can actually say yes, both of them. I believe it is absolutely right that the skills requirements should also apply to teachers who started training before 2014. Stepping away from it means that a young teacher who has recently graduated and may have to teach for over 30 years to come is not going to meet a requirement to develop the professional skills that we actually believe are necessary. It seems very little desirable to me. I wonder that the parties that agree fully with the Right that being a teacher is one of the most important jobs in our country, are not at the same time more concerned with the quality of both those who are admitted to teacher training, the teacher training itself, and not least the skills they have when teaching our children. I also wonder that those who talk so much about skilled teachers and good teaching take so easy on the importance of expertise. What attitudes should our students get, when they say that making professional demands, is making a distrust? That's wonderful for me.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e777	I think one should be a little careful to say that opponents or people who have a different attitude take things lightly. One does not take things lightly because one has a different attitude to this question than the government has – so respect for each other, I think we have to have. This means that the Centre Party does not at all take lightly either the competence of the teachers or the way in which the teaching process is to be carried out. But we're questioning why there's exactly 4 in math that should be the intersection between being good enough to get into the teacher's education or not. It's probably true that mathematics is an important subject, but it's also important to be able to communicate. It's also that you can miss out on some important teaching resources with people who may not quite reach the 4th requirement in mathematics, but who do well in other subjects, and who are very motivated to be a teacher in Norwegian school. Nor is it the case that we are opposed to competence requirements for teachers. I also think you should be careful to attach your opponents to that view. What we're opposed to is that it gives retroactive force. It is quite right that almost all teacher organisations are in favour of skills requirements, but it is also right that almost all teacher organisations at the hearing in the committee said that they were anti-retroactive, because in a way, it is a downgrading of the skills acquired by teachers in Norwegian school over the last 20 to 30 years. There's some of the central issues in the problem. There's also someone who's tried to say that the Center Party, because you don't want a teacher's norm right away, doesn't want teacher's density. But that's not right. I think all the parties here in the hall want to increase the teacher's density, but implementing a teacher's norm without the consequences of that norm being investigated, without anyone knowing the effects of it, without having an overview of what it will mean, is irresponsible politics. The Center Party fully agrees with Kristin Clemet in Civita who has also pointed out the same thing. It's not that this in sum will give all students, regardless of their place of residence, good teacher powers. No, there's some of the problem. The sum of these measures can be very worrying with regard to the proportion of non-qualified in school. We have almost 4,000 non-qualified people today, we need 2,500 new teachers' powers only with the teacher's norm, as well as seeing that the search for primary school education between the first and the seventh stages goes down, and that you separate teachers who are in Norwegian school today. That's the sum of the suggestions that are a problem. This means that someone will probably get better qualified teachers, but some – and more than today – will have to be careful with non-qualified teachers. That's not good, and the government has no plan and doesn't know the consequences of what they're now agreeing to adopt.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e794	I agree with Marit Arnstad on one important thing: that we need teachers who are good mediators. We need safe, good teachers who are good at communicating. That is why we have also strengthened and renewed our pedagogical competence through the five-year master's programme. It's important. Good professional competence is important, but not enough. We need the combination of good pedagogical competence and good professional competence. Then I register that the representative Marit Arnstad continues to talk about the separation of teachers. It's not the separation of teachers. They will still be teachers, but if you have to teach Norwegian, math and English, you have to have professional immersion. No one is talking about the separation of doctors, car mechanics or craftsmen, where new requirements are also introduced and where there is a need for professional replenishment during a professional career. It was actually the representative of Jorod Asphjell that made me take the floor. He said that the government's plan did not lead to anything good. So there are 20,000 teachers who have been in further education since 2013. It's a triple since the red-green crashed Norway. The teachers themselves say that this has led to something good, that they become better intermediaries, more engaged, and that the students learn more. This has led to something good. We have also implemented other measures that will work. It is the case that students who were admitted from the autumn of 2017 and take five years of teacher training in normal time will receive 160000 kroner in student loans. Those who study and work in North Norway are coming out even better. Those who take new primary education with a five-year master will receive NOK 70,000 more in early salary. We continue to invest in continuing education and training for teachers throughout the school cycle, and we carry out other recruitment activities. These are concrete measures that will work. What it has been added from the Workers' Party's side in the Chamber today is reversal and winging – nothing else. It was the Workers' Party that less than a year ago criticised the government because you didn't go far enough in recording requirements, and now you want to reverse. The working party helped to demand professional immersion for all teachers, now you want to reverse. We can't run Norwegian school that way. The Norwegian school, the students, the teachers and the parents need predictability and long-termity, and it stands for the blue-green government. Through cooperation with the Christian People's Party, we now have predictability in this matter out of this four-year period.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e807	The representative Gudmundsen had listened to the debate. I have, too, and had I followed this debate from the gallery or from web-tv, I think I had been surprised. When you listen to the posts of those who rule – those who sit in government, those who are responsible – you hear that they are not willing to take responsibility, they are not willing to listen to the recordings, look at the situation that is out there. We've challenged the state council several times on the situation, but he's more concerned with giving criticism than giving answers. He mentions some old suggestions that I know have not worked, but they are not willing to show their plan. The representative Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde is more concerned about the Workers' Party than she is about the great teaching shortage. And the representative Kristensen quotes teaches Håvard Tjora, but does not listen to what he has to say and the suggestions he, the Federation of Education and the National Association of Schools have to take away the separation of teachers. I believe that those who have followed this debate see that this is not a discussion for or against competence, but about how we achieve the objective: which proposals, which measures. From the Labour Party we have been very clear. We have put forward ten concrete proposals. Unfortunately, they are not supported. I would like to read out some of those that the government believes are proposals that you cannot vote for, for example. proposal No 3rd@item: inlistbox ‘The government asks the government to implement a lift of competence for unqualified teachers in school.’ It is not supported by the government parties. Or proposal No. 5, where we ask for the launch of a ‘new national recruitment campaign’. Unfortunately, it does not get a majority. I would like the government parties, those who are responsible, those who govern, to do as the Workers' Party, to be able to listen in view of the situation out there, and take the necessary steps. It is a pity that so many of the good suggestions that are being discussed here today do not get the majority they have. But I very much agree with the representative Arnstad from the Senterpartiet – I don't think we're done with this case. There is a majority in this Chamber that I think we need to find good ways to get there, because this matter is too important for it to end with this debate today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e823	The council will not call it segregated teachers to separate teachers. But when one has 20 years of experience behind the catheter, one has good results both on national exams and exams, of which the Right is so busy, and one can soon be on the move – that the Right then is not afraid that these will leave too early instead of taking the required training, I don't understand. The representative Gudmundsen said a little arrogantly that the opposition had not shown convincing arguments in this matter. Well, at least I had hoped that they would approx. The 40,000 signatures the representative Gudmundsen was handed over on the lion's tray today had made an impression. So the Right believes that the Education Association is taking too easy on the need for professionally qualified teachers. The representative Gudmundsen uses the University of Tromsø as an example. I want to invite Gudmundsen with me to Bodø. The only thing that keeps the principal at North University, Bjørn Olsen, awake at night, is the future shortage of teachers in North Norway. We don't train enough teachers in North Norway, and I would like to welcome you to Bodø to hear what the principal at North University says. Finally, I want to calm down a little bit. They are very concerned that the Workers' Party has stolen SV's clothes in educational policy matters. But it's actually like that when the robbers had been with Aunt Sofie and robbed her, they robbed her back a few days later, because they found it a little too tiring to have Aunt Sofie with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e834	The President recalls that the speech should be addressed to the President and not to the representatives, no matter how cordial the invitation to Bodø might be.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e839	I want to start by encouraging the government parties to stop arguing against strawmen. If the Workers' Party were not concerned with improving their skills, we would not have proposed any further measures to ensure full coverage of continuing training. We would not have proposed other measures to ensure the way to the goal – without increasing teaching shortages, but by demonstrating confidence in teaching prophecy. We propose to increase the State share of funding for continuing education in the basic subjects. The government parties are against it. We propose – together with the Socialist Left – to make it compulsory for municipalities to have a plan for raising competences, which too few municipalities have today. The parties to the Government are against it. We will commit the Stortinget and the Government to a high level of continuing education. The government does not think that there is a necessary decision. The aim of the working party is for all students to meet a qualified teacher in the classroom. Today's situation is that the government steers with open eyes towards a teacher shortage and several unskilled, and does not have the power to build bridge over the mistrust the teachers feel. The Working Party will do something about that. In contrast to what the representatives of the Right say, the Workers' Party has not proposed to remove demands for admission to teacher training. We're going to have high demands for those who are going to be teachers in Norwegian school. What we – and the Socialist Left Party – have proposed is to address more accurate admission requirements, which ensure that the teachers have professional competence, either through cross-sectional requirements or through character requirements in the subjects in which they are to be taught. We have listened not only to the Federation of Education, the National Association of Schools, the Educational Students and the Association of School Leaders, but also to the National Council for Teacher Education, which says: Can there be better ways to organise these admission requirements? Our children must have good teachers. Then we have to make demands. We have invited the Right Party and the Advance Party to think about it in other ways – and experience that it is being rejected in cash. I just have to comment on the hole in the Right rhetoric about the winging in this case and in the next case. We knew we'd get criticism for the positions we've taken, but we've been willing to stand in that fight. The cave is that the right itself has turned. In the election campaign in 2013 and in its own program, the Right said that you should have a rating of 4 in mathematics, Norwegian and English, without an advance, and criticised the red-green government for not having it. When they came into the government, they realized that it was not possible, and turned around. There are no qualifications in these subjects. It's an honest thing to turn around, but it's no more honest to turn around when the Right does it than when others do it, especially when we see that the Right has had its own little turnaround festival in the last four to six years. Turned not only in terms of character requirements, but also in terms of grades in the 5th grade, leveling of pupils, language norms in kindergarten, performance-based pay for teachers in Oslo, student representatives and teacher norms. It's an honest thing, but it's also the basis of a pretty hollow rhetoric.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e854	The government parties are trying to simplify the debate on whether one is in favour of or against competence, that it is only professionally filled, that the municipalities are given good time, that it is only in some cases that this is unreasonable. No, it's about over 36 000 teachers who now feel that this is unreasonable. We have developed committed and profiled teachers, who are precisely Håvard Tjora, who are raising the professional commitment both at home, in society and in the teaching environment, and – most importantly – he has been with and raised the students' commitment. He is now one of the teachers who is being separated. Yes, we call the requirement of competence separation and distrust to the teachers, because we call a spade a spade. It is true that it is the responsibility of the school leaders and municipalities to get the cabal to continue training from the teaching staff and to get the money to go up. It'll be their responsibility. But in the practical everyday life, the teachers themselves have to get up every day, go to work, meet the principal, see parents and not least the students into their eyes and know that politicians have decided that the education they have is not good enough, that the job they do is not done well enough. Real competence also has a value. Here the government wants a simple solution to a comprehensive problem and cuts all teachers over a comb. We are pleased with the possibility of continuing training. Nevertheless, the status is that the teacher training institutions are not allowed to accommodate everyone who wants to take the place, and the municipalities do not have the means to send all those who want to gain more competence on course. In addition, the Education Association is concerned about who will take care of the teaching in classrooms when thousands of teachers now need to be trained. Recording requirements for teacher training are highlighted as the solution to improve the level of implementation of training for teachers. This is also a serious simplification of a far more complex problem. Professional quality of education, student health, economics, housing, framework conditions – I can frame many things that are involved in the level of implementation of teacher training. Even on the first day of school, I experienced a clear message that I was going through the same technically demanding education as the engineers, but I wanted to get almost half the initial salary. It was a good excuse to start a five-year education.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e867	The representative, Marit Arnstad, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e873	There was something the council said that made me have to take the word again. I believe that, in fact, there is a majority in this Chamber for a different position from that of the government, and I am not happy that that kind of budgetary agreement is being concluded – but we have to accept that. So the Council of State says that this will be stablely adopted between the government and the Christian People's Party for the next four years. Then I must be allowed to ask: Is there any agreement between the government and the Christian People's Party on these questions for the next four years? Has the Christian People's Party really committed itself, regardless of how they see implementation going? It shall include, inter alia: on the part of the government, almost 1 billion are available. kr at the March budgetary conference to achieve this. Then I think the Council of State and perhaps the Christian People's Party could have clarified: Has the government and the Christian People's Party now concluded a four-year agreement on these questions?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e880	The right and the government are asked to listen, and I promise we will. We have listened to the teaching profession and therefore given three times more teachers continuing training. We have listened to those who are newly educated, and therefore we give them the opportunity to enter a professional community in the schools by demanding professional immersion from the teachers. But those we've listened to the most are those who are in charge of the thousands of students who, unfortunately today, have been awarded the level of education of their parents, and are in a school that is too much a chance game based on which classroom a porter is in, which school you go to, and which municipality you live in. I will promise the representative Tvidt Solberg that I am more concerned with them than I am with the Workers' Party. I would also like to comment on Mr Henriksen's comments. Competence requirements are not threatening anyone. We are constantly disclaiming qualifications in school. The Workers’ Party and the SV have recently taken the initiative to take more and more measures to guide the teaching of teachers in detail. I wonder if they believe that it is also coercion and threats – that is not necessarily the case. I believe that the Workers' Party will have the opportunity to address the very central issues of school policy, if they want to. But they have to recognise that there is uncertainty, and the last Norwegian school needs today, are such sporadic actions, reverse operations and changes in entirely key issues over a short period of time. The working party has been on the sideline while the government has provided the teachers with continuing training. They have been on the sidelines when we have implemented a teacher's promise and introduced five-year master's education. I don't have a problem with it if the Workers' Party is getting on the track right now – I think that's very nice. But I wish they did it without first removing professional demands for all the teachers who are in school, and making an artificial distinction between those who are educated before and after 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e893	The representative Torstein Tvedt Solberg has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e898	The last post could not stand undisputed, for it is a quite hollow criticism and a lot of empty rhetoric from the Right in what they say, I think. If the representative Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde had been seriously concerned with the weakest students, perhaps the Right could join in and vote for proposal No. 10 in the Grand Duchy today, where a ‘government issued a long-term introduction of skills requirements in all subjects for newly educated teachers’, or for some of the many proposals that have come from the Workers’ Party and the other opposition parties today to take concrete action. As long as the Right is willing to join, and realizes the situation and really listens and takes hold, I think the criticism that has so far come becomes very hollow. I would also like to repeat the call from the representative of the Central Party to the Christian People's Party and the Right for a clarification – I see that neither the Council of State nor the representative of the Christian People's Party has yet to sign up in the debate. I think it is important for the Storting to get a clarification in this debate, given the extent of that agreement. It's been said a lot, so it would be good to get it clear. Is it a four-year agreement or isn't it?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e905	I will end by thanking everyone for a good debate. There have been several arguments from all of them here, in all directions – there is no doubt about it. But what I would like to point out in conclusion is that the opposition believes that several measures have not worked. Then I have to be allowed to say that it is a little amazing that just a year ago we had a debate that had a different sign about just for example. qualifications and admission requirements for teacher training, for which the Workers' Party was then the strongest spokesperson. Now that you're turning around just a short time later, you're really not really willing to see and listen to whether these are actually working instruments. For it is a little early to draw the conclusion as to whether both the competence requirements and the recording requirements produce the effects claimed here. On the contrary, I would say that I have been able to argue quite strongly twice here today so that we now see many positive features by just several teachers with immersion out in School-Norway, and that Master's education, combined with admission requirements, works well and helps to recruit more qualified students, which thus also increases the flow of the teacher's study, and which means that we are just reaching the goal, that we are getting more from the teacher's studies and into the classrooms, and who are involved in raising Norwegian school – because our children deserve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e910	I received a question from the representative Marit Arnstad regarding teaching standards, competence requirements and recording requirements. The government parties and – at that time – the Left and Christian People's Party concluded an agreement that contained both the element teaching norm, which was important for the Christian People's Party, and demands for professional immersion and recording requirements, which were important for the Advance Party, Right and Left. The type of measure may not be valid for a period of one year only. It is not that we implement a teaching norm that will apply to 2018, and then we should go back on it. Once we have entered into an agreement that includes both teaching standards, admission requirements and immersion requirements, it will apply in the future. And of course, the Christian People's Party and the government parties are going to have a good dialogue on these issues in the future, so that we can ensure good implementation of the teaching norm and the requirements that we have achieved. This is true in the future, of course, it cannot be valid for just one year.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e915	The representative Marit Knutsdatter Strand has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e920	Now the Council of State tried to answer something, but I still feel that I want to raise three specific questions: How do I get enough money? How do you get enough places for further and further training? How do teachers get enough? This is a little too simple and hasty for a much more comprehensive problem. The Christian People's Party representative made several interesting and good suggestions in his post, but unfortunately it is not the reality that these are what we have in front of us today. I look forward to, hope and expect that we can work more with good recruitment measures – to improve education, better conditions and not least pay. But this will be a tough fight for funds, not just here, but around the municipalities of the whole country. That fight we must actually be responsible for after the decisions we make in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e927	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e943	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines with up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up for the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e952	On behalf of the government parties Progress Party, Right and Left I want to start by commending the private kindergartens for ensuring full child care coverage, diversity in the kindergarten sector and freedom of choice for the families with children. A recent survey concluded that the parents are satisfied, that the private kindergartens are the highest quality, and that they provide a good offer to the country's kindergartens. We are grateful for that. In 2003 in this room, the Progress Party made a child care settlement with the Centre Party, the Workers' Party and the SV, and we agreed at that time that it was absolutely essential to ensure the cross-political consensus on full child care coverage to allow private kindergartens to enter the market. Today, private kindergartens account for about half of the sector, and the Committee believes that the private sector will also be an important part of the offer in the future. The representative proposal is a rematch on a case that was dealt with in Stortinget last year, paying particular attention to profit, pay and quality in the sector. The Committee agrees that public services financed by taxpayers should go to important welfare goods and ensure children's good and safe kindergartens. I want to commend the Committee for being clear that private kindergartens will also deliver offers in the future. I want to answer some of the criticisms that have come from the opposition in the matter. The representative proposal can be seen as a black paint in the nursery sector. Quality: There is a broad consensus between all parties that the requirements for public and private actors should be the same. We make equal demands for staffing and equal demands for pedagogical density, framework plan and funding. I record that the parents are most satisfied with the private kindergartens, and that must be the most important thing. The most important thing for parents who use the nursery services is quality and not who owns the nursery. Conditions of employment and employment: 95 pst is worth mentioning. of today's private kindergartens have a collective agreement. No other sector in Norway is more well-regulated and organised. I am surprised that the Workers' Party will now set aside the Norwegian model and the tripartite cooperation and propose that the government intervene in the tariff area and change the agreement on pay and working conditions agreed between the parties. It has to be mentioned that the pay gap between the public and private sectors is marginal. The vast majority of private kindergartens have good pay and working conditions, and it is difficult to understand how the proposers have intended the government to intervene in the negotiating rights of the parties. The question of profit: It is a misunderstanding that private actors raise large dividends in the kindergarten sector. On average, private kindergartens take out 0.4 pst. So if the claim from SV and Red were to keep water, private investors would be better counted by putting this money in the bank and getting the interest profit than by investing it in the kindergarten sector. The progressing party acknowledges that the private kindergartens deliver good quality, and that is the most important thing for us. Despite the fact that quality and staffing requirements are the same in the public and private sectors, and subsidies and parental payments are the same, the good running of kindergartens varies. The left side simply does not understand the kindergarten sector. The problem is not that the private kindergartens are making money to deliver a good offer, the problem in the future is that the 800 private kindergartens that are currently running out of money may have to close their business, so that we are without full child care coverage again. That, of course, says nothing about the representative proposal. The representative's proposal also says nothing about the family-run kindergartens, the individual enterprises, which today have to pay dividends in order to get a full salary. If the Workers' Party and the SV's proposals go through, it will actually be impossible to operate family-run kindergartens today, because in practice wages are banned. There's a big ideological distinction between the right-hand side and the left-hand side of this case. The progress party is busy with quality and will not forbid people to make money. It is also a proposal to distinguish between commercial and non-profit actors. The Party of Progress, the Right and the Left do not support that proposal. We really don't understand. The Progress Party and the Right consider that the quality requirements for all kindergartens should be the same, that the grant and parental payment for all kindergartens should be the same. It doesn't matter to us who owns it – whether it's a private commercial or a non-profit. On the other hand, I record that the government has already received this kind of question from Oslo, which has an active policy to ban commercial operators. In any case, the government must respond to whether it is at all lawful to distinguish between ideal and commercial actors, and will come back to it. I hope that the debate will clarify what the parties really mean, and what they want for Norwegian kindergartens. On behalf of the government parties and the Progress Party, I would like to state that the private actors here are important welfare providers, and we want them in the kindergarten sector in the future as well. I would like to mention proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e980	The representative Åshild Bruun-Gundersen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e985	We are quickly happy in our kindergarten. We are happy with the employees who meet the pod with a smile every morning, when we ourselves may be angry and stressed. We are pleased that the children are alive and have exciting and instructive days while we are at work. For the Workers' Party, good quality in kindergarten is the most sovereign thing, regardless of whether the nursery is owned by the municipality or others. That's how I think it's for most parents too. It is not important whether the kindergarten is public or private as long as it is good. But you ask your parents if they want the 24 billion. They themselves and the community use in kindergartens, shall benefit their children, I think most will answer a roaring yes. I think most kindergarten owners will also answer yes to that question. In this case, the Labour Party has made several proposals together with other parties to assure parents that the money is spent on the children – not on large profits or profits for commercial companies. We want to know how we can change the law to prevent profit, but without hitting small and ideals. The Labour Party recognises the job done in private kindergartens by thousands of dedicated employees. We've been dependent on the private kindergartens to get full babysitting. We are still, but at the same time we see a development that worries. Today, large commercial kindergartens account for an increasing share of the sector. The small and the ideals are getting fewer. Norwegian kindergartens are about to become a speculation object for Norwegian and international investment funds. There should be some alarm bells, even in the Right House, when child care providers offer large investors from abroad and abroad good gains on invested capital from Norwegian kindergarten. For us it is also demanding to look at unacceptable dividends, preferably through the sale of kindergartens built up with very cheap plots and favourable loans from municipalities. The Workers' Party will prevent our common well-being from becoming a market for maximum gain or speculation. We want the many serious kindergarten owners and employees who go to work every day to not feel suspected of being busy running a store. Therefore, a cleanup is needed. The kindergartens are for the children. The working party will ensure that public funds and parental payments are used on the children, without prejudicing the rational and predictable operation of the private kindergartens. For us, the ideal kindergartens are important for a wide range of kindergartens. That is why we must ensure that the ideals do not compete. We want to change the law, so that municipalities can give priority to the ideal kindergartens. The Labour Party wants better knowledge of the flows of money in the sector. We want to ensure equivalent pay, employment and pension conditions. And we want municipalities to be able to make the same demands for private people as for public kindergartens. Private kindergartens that do not take out children's money as a profit have nothing to fear with the Workers' Party's proposal. I cannot say that I am surprised by the rhetoric of the Right Party and the Advance Party in this matter, where they willingly defend commercial kindergarten owners at the expense of the children. But the Advance Party and the Right must take a talk on the chamber and agree on what the government really means, because now they are engaged in a violent double communication. Siv Jensen is accusing today's Evening Post Workers' Party of a witch hunt at private kindergartens, while the Prime Minister was standing in Stortinget's Question Time last week talking about super profit, and the Minister of Knowledge wants to have a review of the supervision. They share the problem description, even if they do not want to take strong action, as the Workers' Party wants. The representative Bruun-Gundersen has accused the Workers' Party of child care death, while the representative Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde from the Right has said that this job has already started the government, so the proposals are really unnecessary. In other words, the government says that what the Workers' Party will do is terrible – in addition, the job has already been started. Quality is most important for the Workers' Party. We know more and more about how important the early years are for the rest of life, and how much better quality can mean for the children. Research says what's most important. We want at least half of all employees in all kindergartens to be kindergarten teachers. We need a standard of personnel that is well established by the government. And we want to give the children the right to belong to a fixed group of children. All of that we have proposed in Stortinget, but it has been voted down by the government parties. The Labour Party believes that both our children and our society deserve that we bet even more on the smallest. Then we need to get more knowledge on the table. We who cheer up at kindergartens also have to look at what can get better. Working against the fact that kindergarten money goes to great profit is just as little an attack on private kindergartens as working against unnecessary bureaucracy is an attack on the public. We have to work specifically with quality in both places.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1013	Is Mr Henriksen going to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1018	Yes, I would like to take up all the suggestions we are on, and what we are alone about.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1023	The representative Martin Henriksen has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1028	In 2011, a politician I look up to said the following: ‘There are founders of kindergartens who have put down a lot of effort and many hours without paying for everything, and some have invested private money. Then it would be unreasonable not to allow dividends. However, the rules are designed in such a way that no one shall fly high on this.» It was then the Minister of Knowledge from SV, Kristin Halvorsen, who said this. The kindergarten sector is not a lucrative industry for those seeking short-term benefits, nor should it be. In the kindergarten law, there is a limitation on the amount of profits child care owners can make. They can only take out a reasonable annual result, and it certainly does the most. Private kindergartens only took out 1.03 pst. of the total annual profit or loss in dividends in 2015, and the truth is that as many as one in three kindergartens are actually in deficit each year. We know that 95 pst. employees of private kindergartens have standard collective agreements, in line with the Norwegian model. We set the same requirements for the standard of manning, for the density of education and for the content through the framework plan. We know that private kindergartens have more educators than municipal kindergartens, and we know that parents are very pleased with the private kindergartens. That is, after all, the most important thing, because kindergarten is for the children. The crucial point here is that private kindergartens receive the same level of funding as municipal kindergartens. In other words, it doesn't cost any more with the private kindergartens. And it's with this knowledge in retrospect that the rhetoric on the left-hand side becomes quite incomprehensible. It is also incomprehensible that the Workers' Party cuts 300 million. in support of children who go to private kindergartens. I have to say that just before I got up on the speaker's chair, I got a little pick-up, because after hearing the Workers' Party talk about what I assumed was only regulation and control, which is what the government has started, it now seems like the representatives are saying straight away that they want to ban profit for everyone but small, ideal kindergartens – in other words, prohibiting the small opportunity you have today to take out some profit if you go with profits. I just have to say that it's risking the kindergarten places of thousands of children, and it's a clear left triangle that I'm quite surprised at here today. There is no need on the right to break the back of those who have worn kindergarten agreements since the start, but we want to regulate and control the nursery sector in a smarter way to ensure good quality. Because it's true that the kindergarten sector has changed, and we see a turn towards a sector with larger groups that buys up smaller kindergartens. That is why I am pleased that the Right in Government has now taken the initiative for a greater review, in particular on the gain of sales, financing and improved supervision. Because it's actually the latter that's the challenge. The flow of money in recent years has not been a return, but it has been that people have made money to sell their kindergartens on. There are many municipalities that seem to be demanding financial supervision of a very changed kindergarten sector, and we have to take this seriously, because the money is going to benefit the children. For the Right and the Government, it is important to preserve diversity, with both large and small kindergartens. One of the proposals we are dealing with today, the government is asking for explicit legislative changes to distinguish between ideal and commercial actors. The right has understood that this is not a request for a bill, but a request for the government to return to Stortinget with an appropriate investigation. It can do that, but I'm a little bit unsure of what the purpose is. Because if the purpose of such an investigation is to prohibit a form of ownership, we simply disagree. We do not create a diverse sector of large and small kindergartens by prohibiting a form of ownership. We create it by making demands on quality and providing the small kindergartens with predictable framework conditions. The big challenge for small kindergartens today is just that the margins are so small, and it's more lucrative to sell. Now that the government is reviewing regulation of the sector, the attention and desire for diversity will be central. It is striking how the left side intersects all private kindergartens over one comb. After today, and the government review, I hope that we can get the debate on kindergarten policy on track, and that is that we are discussing what is most important, namely how we can ensure that our kindergartens get better, and that more children get a good start on the rest of their lives. It's not about ownership, it's about competence, it's about management, and it's about putting in measures to raise quality. And that's where we should put the distinction -- not between non-profit, commercial and municipal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1048	It's an important point to point out that here we have of course, as it came out well in the previous speaker's posts, a left and right sides with steep fronts. But it's not necessarily so black-and-white. The center party is very comfortable to be in the middle of this, to find the golden middle road, where we're occupied with both public regulations and private opportunities. We think that's just how we can get the best out of the society we have -- where we have resources available, and people with different assumptions. Access to kindergartens is a good thing. The kindergarten is the first step children take into society outside the home and is an important area for building relationships and growing. The Community kindergartens can provide, is an additional resource for families with children, which they do not necessarily have or do not have time to set up on their own. To ensure that all residents of the country have an offer was a job no. one. Now we have to make sure that all the inhabitants of the country have a good offer. The nursery agreement we are proud of, and we see today the result of it. We're not talking about babysitting anymore, we're talking about quality. It tells us two things: the municipalities have made a formidable effort to put kindergartens all over the country, and kindergartens have proved to be important for children's development. Then we have to be more aware of how kindergartens are operated. Economics is definitely an important question. There's a lot of money going into kindergarten. The fact that Stortinget went so clearly into the nursery arrangement and pointed out a direction and a need, opened a market and an opportunity for many enterprising municipalities, businesses and individuals. We wouldn't have been there today if we hadn't put all the cloths on. But now we have to stick our finger in the ground and think about it. Where are we today? What challenges and opportunities do we face? What direction are we going from here? The centre party wants good kindergartens all over the country. At the same time, we need to be sure that the funds that go to kindergarten go to what they need and that they benefit from kindergartens and families with children. If we want to get the most out of the funds we have in the community, there can't be a chance to make a lot of profits in kindergartens. At the same time, we must not introduce divisions that roam all private kindergartens. There are both ideal and commercial private kindergartens where children are definitely in focus. It is a loss of diversity and quality in the kindergarten sector if we lose the private providers. At the same time, we have to take responsibility for and the seriousness of the fact that larger groups are now increasingly making money in kindergartens. The centre party is pleased that we are going to review the cash flows, so that the children and the quality of kindergartens are given priority throughout the country, in all kindergartens. There can be no such thing as the government focuses on – efficiency and most at least. No, we need to focus on quality, safety and the best of children. Conditions of employment and pay for the employees of kindergartens must also be in place throughout the country. It is not good enough that most people are serious, or that most employees get what they need – everyone will get it. And everyone has to be serious. There is no doubt that the adult children are with them in kindergartens are important for their development and experiences in kindergarten. Then we have to make sure that their working conditions are in order. We are pleased that parents recently found that they are satisfied with both the private and the public kindergartens. It provides a good basis for cleaning up working conditions and funding when we now want all kindergarten providers to be serious. All employees shall have decent conditions and the public funds shall be of benefit to the children. Kindergartens are an important good. As long as we can set the same requirements for both private and public kindergartens, there is in no way any thing to fear. We just want to make sure that the government grants only benefit the children, and that the money can't be taken out in the form of dividends. With that, I would like to address the proposal of the Senterpartiet on its own, and that proposal of the Senterpartiet and SV stands together.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1071	The representative Marit Knutsdatter Strand has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1077	I am proud that SV took the initiative in 2003 and together with the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Advance Party took the lead in a kindergarten settlement. And I'm proud that we then made sure that this was done in a few years under the red-green government. While the right was on the sideline, thousands of new municipal and private kindergartens were established through a state grant scheme. There is no doubt that giving all our kids legal rights to kindergarten and ensuring full childcare is one of the greatest welfare and education reforms in recent times. The size has adopted a child care law which states that government grants and parental payments are to benefit the young and the kindergarten. Unfortunately, we have seen some serious examples through the media of some kindergarten owners awarding large management fees and private profits, among others. through the purchase and sale of kindergartens. It is important to have a wide range of childcare facilities to give parents freedom of choice, but I am particularly concerned about the situation of the ideal and the small kindergartens in the face of the large commercial chains. Therefore, SV now believes that the Storting must take action and ask the government to propose changes to the law for kindergartens, so that government grants and parental payments benefit the children, and that this money does not benefit private nursery owners. It is necessary to draw up a national overview of the compliance, enforcement and enforcement in the sector of the Kindergarten Act with rules governing government grants and the supervision of private kindergartens. We believe that the government should make proposals as soon as possible to introduce a legal requirement to ensure that employees in private kindergartens are paid and working conditions, including pension contracts, in line with employees in municipal kindergartens. This must be a prerequisite for obtaining public support. We are afraid of the growing commercialisation of the sector. Today, approx. half of the children who go to private kindergartens in kindergartens owned by the four largest companies. These are driving a massive expansion, and it's obvious that they think there's a lot of money to pick up in this sector. Commercialisation is a motivation for the owner to make the most of profits, which can be done in several ways in kindergarten: for example, the amount of work can be increased by: to have more young people per employee, to extend the opening hours without involving more employees, to use less skilled labour, to save by including fewer foreign-language children or children with disabilities, and to avoid hiring temporary workers in the absence of a job. Quality and diversity are weakened when governments do not take stronger action to regulate the sector, including: by not strengthening the law in such a way that commercial operators cannot continue to collect Community money in this way. SV will definitely not kill any private kindergartens. Fortunately, there are many beautiful kindergartens in Norway, both private and public, but there are also wide variations in quality. Both within the municipal, commercial and non-profit kindergartens, we see that there are considerable differences in staffing and in the competence of employees. The fact that we point out challenges and propose improvements in how to take care of and further develop a good and equivalent childcare provision for our young people is a responsible policy. Finally, I want to cut off the usual attempts on the right-hand side to change the theme when these questions are addressed. They can spare themselves claims that SV will kill private kindergartens. These proposals are designed to control government expenditure – nothing else. I have therefore also submitted those of the SV's proposals that have not already been addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1098	The representative Mona Lill Fagerås has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1103	As the social liberal party we in the Left are, it is no surprise that we want welfare providers to be treated in the same way and that private people are an important complement to the public. Unfortunately, the debate on private kindergartens, by some called ‘welfare profitors’, creates uncertainty and discomfort for those who work in private kindergartens, as well as for many of those who have children in private kindergartens. The left acknowledges that private kindergartens do an important job to ensure good childcare. For the Left, the best guide for children is the main one, and the main focus must be on providing children in all municipalities with a good, diverse and varied childcare provision. There is nothing to suggest that private kindergartens offer a lower offer than municipal ones. A diverse and varied offer is rather a strength. 55 pst. of all kindergartens are currently owned by municipal kindergarten owners, while 45 pst. owned by private nursery owners. Private contribution to ensuring diversity — with open-air kindergartens, Montessori kindergartens, etc. - is significant. These are offers that are of importance to children and their parents, and are likely to be desired and necessary in the future. In addition, studies show that private kindergartens save the state for approx. 2.1 B.C.E. kr annually, and national studies show that parents with children in private kindergartens are among the most satisfied. It is also expected that the same quality requirements will be applied in all kindergartens. As mentioned earlier, 31 pst. in 2015, the challenge in the kindergarten sector appears to be to ensure these private kindergartens with good and predictable framework conditions. So we should therefore call them ‘welfare providers’ rather than ‘welfare professionals’. Since 2013, the Left, together with the bourgeois parties, has continued to have the significant investment that has been made in the kindergarten field since the 2000s. And we have helped to provide quality measures in kindergarten, such as several kindergarten teachers, lower parental pay for low-income families and more flexible admission. Extended entitlement to kindergarten has been focused on and equivalent treatment for municipal and private kindergartens. It'll work. 300,000 children in kindergarten in Norway, and more emphasis is placed on quality in kindergarten now than ever before. So says Section 14 of the Kindergarten Act, among other things. that the government grant and parental payment are to benefit the children. A system of independent supervision is also in place in the kindergarten sector, in the County State, which could contribute to the provision of children with the quality of the childcare facilities they require, irrespective of their country of residence. With regard to the supervisory function, there is likely to be scope for improvement and better follow-up both to the content of kindergarten and to the proper use of money. But then the government has also announced a review of today's regulation and control of the kindergarten sector. The regulatory framework for the benefits of sales, debt financing by purchasing existing kindergartens and the supervision of the sector shall be reviewed. This work is very important to provide a basis for assessing any improvements in the regulation and control of the nursery sector. In the case of pay differentials, it is relevant to ask the Government to review the tripartite cooperation in order to address how it can be ensured that employees in private kindergartens without collective agreements have good pay, employment and pension conditions. Like the other civil parties, the Left considers that proposal No. 3 is based on a request for an investigation to distinguish between the ideal and commercial kindergartens, and the proposal for an investigation fits well into the work that has already been notified by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1122	Private kindergartens have been and are still important to ensure the objective of full childcare. On top of 50 pst. is owned by private orphanages, which also means substantial economic savings for the State. There has been a great deal of effort in the kindergarten field in the last four years, as a result of a cooperation between the government parties and the Christian People's Party. The emphasis has been placed on increased quality through a strengthening of the kindergarten by approx. 400 million. kr in the 2018 budget, which has led to a higher pedagogical density and more adults. We have also together provided for a more flexible admission and not least extended entitlement to kindergarten. The Christian People's Party is concerned that there is a wide range of kindergarten facilities with room for different actors, including the smaller ones. Ideals are both an important complement and, in some cases, also an alternative to public offer. The Christian People's Party is committed to facilitating that the ideals also have good framework conditions. Today we find that several of these people are experiencing pressure and are struggling simply to survive. It is therefore important that the funding system become predictable, without major differences from municipality to municipality. Differences in the basis of calculation make it particularly demanding to deal with small and ideals. For the larger chains, it is easier to deal with these kinds of challenges because they have a more robust economy. The Christian People's Party is committed to assessing improvements in the regulation and control of the kindergarten sector. We are familiar with the fact that the government, among other things, reviewing the legislation on sales dividends, debt financing, the purchase of existing kindergartens and, in particular, the supervision of the sector. Although independent supervision has been introduced in the kindergarten sector by allowing the county to exercise direct supervision of kindergartens ‘in exceptional cases’, as it says, we believe that independent supervision should have been established that controlled both private and municipal kindergartens. It's not about building up a new big bureaucracy, but it's just that the kids get the quality of the kindergarten they need, regardless of where they live in the country. I hope that the government's work in this area will lead to the establishment of independent supervision that has a duty of oversight over both municipal and private kindergartens. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to get a better overview of the quality of kindergartens by monitoring the cash flows in this business. The Stortinget took a decision in December 2017, Innst. 43 S for 2017-2018, to map the cash flows of publicly funded welfare services. The Christian People's Party suggests that the kindergarten sector is also part of the mandate of this sample. This is a sample which, in addition to monitoring, can also propose solutions that can maximise public resources for the production of actual well-being. It is important to facilitate the provision of childcare services that have a diversity with a place for the ideal actors. Today we have a law that does not allow us to distinguish between ideal and commercial actors. We therefore want the government to launch an investigation that will clarify the possibilities for a distinction between ideal and commercial private kindergartens. We therefore ask in the proposal we are promoting with the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party, that the government come back to Stortinget with a description of the room for opportunity to get this done, the changes that need to be made, and explain the possibility of establishing an alternative form of organisation to run ideal kindergartens. An investigation that can provide answers to these questions will be an important basis for the next round to assess the possibilities for putting in place a legal separation that can help to secure the future of ideal kindergartens in a better way than today. From available statistics, there appears to be small pay differentials between private and municipal kindergartens — a variation from 0.63 to 3.42 pst. more in annual earnings in the municipalities, according to Agenda Kaupang in 2017. In the view of the Christian People's Party, it is important that employees in private kindergartens have pay, employment and pension conditions at least in line with employees in public kindergartens. The Christian People's Party therefore calls for more knowledge of the challenge and, together with the Workers' Party, asks the government to come back to the Stortinge with how this can be ensured. This is about good quality, and it is about competence and safe working conditions that can ensure good recruitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1137	Something's happening in our country. More precisely, something has happened far too far in our country, namely that the majority of the population, those who work and work and work and pay their taxes, are tired of their tax money building billions of wealth for a few individuals. We pay taxes to ensure common well-being, and that's why 61 pst. by residents, commercial owners are in favour of taking private profits from tax-funded nursing homes and kindergartens. Only 27 pst. is for. It's not hard to understand. Money tax on common well-being should go to common well-being, not to private enrichment. But the political elite in Norway has a hard time in this matter — very heavy. Not only have the other parties for 15 long years set up as the gentle protectors of the nursery barons, no, even after repeated revelations that enormous values are being taken out of the kindergartens, are all the suggestions to stop the profit flow out of the kindergartens tuned down into the Storting today. The working party does not dare much more than to ask Siv Jensen and Erna Solberg to investigate how to ensure that the money goes to the best of the children, not to private profit. It's like asking a pyromaniac did better fire protection. It's been over a year since we saw what happened in the Norlandia kindergarten group. Norlandia-owner Benn Eidissen, the Right-man who started with two empty hands and four plots he got free from Right-steered Tromsø, said it so beautifully in today's business a few years earlier: "We don't care about values. It's not the money that drives us, it's the creativity." Last year, Eidissen sold her idealistic life's work for 250 million. kr. To be uninterested in profit, Norlandia's remaining owners, the Adolfsen brothers, have scraped together a quite impressive fortune. While the official equation is about 200 million. kr, Capital estimates that the brothers have values of 2.5 billion. kr each. This money comes from parental payments, they come from our common taxes – money that should have gone to children in kindergarten, to nursing elderly people in nursing homes, to refugees in reception. Instead, they enrich some welfare profiters, and it's over 60 pst. by the inhabitants of Norway. Among red-green voters, the resistance to welfare professionals is quite massive, not least in the trade movement. I believe that Red's crystal clear line in this matter is an important reason why we came into the Stortinget, and that we are going forward, not least among trade unionists. In the Association of Trade Unions, the largest association of 300,000 members, said 2 pst. by the members last spring that they would vote in Red. After an election campaign where we took the fight against the welfare profiters, we see that over 7 pst. by the members of the Trade Union actually voted for us. There's a majority will out there among people to bet on common welfare, and that's the will Red takes seriously when we fight for profit-free well-being. It was the majority will that secured the left-hand side of the electorate in Oslo, after 18 years of right-wing rule. That winner didn't come because the Workers' Party glued to Right's policy for continued profit in welfare, that winner came because we gave people a clear alternative to Right's policy: Do you want kindergartens to be run for profit, or should we put down the foot of welfare professionals? The municipal elections in 2015 became a policy choice. We won a majority. The biggest election in 2017 was not. We lost the majority. Today, the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party are taking some mussels away from the Right and the Advance Party's policies. That's good, but it's not a clear direction choice. I then take up Red's suggestion.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1159	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1164	The blue-green government is too diverse in the private, diversity of kindergarten services. We are to have kindergartens with different profiles. Private kindergartens ensure freedom of choice for parents, contribute to the diversity of the offer and have been crucial to achieving the goal of full child care coverage. Good kindergartens are particularly important for integration and early intervention. The kindergarten sector has grown sharply between 2003 and 2013. An important part of the kindergarten agreement was to include private actors and that it would be possible to make money in kindergarten. In Stortinget there was a broad, cross-political agreement on the conciliation. It is striking, therefore, that parties that were driving forces behind the historic bet have distrust of private kindergarten owners now that the expansion period is over. The representatives of SV are concerned that government grants and parental payments should benefit the children. We all agree on that. However, if private activities are to be involved in kindergartens, they must have prospects for a certain amount of earnings, for example. because they take a risk. The benefit of grants to children and kindergarten cannot constitute a complete prohibition on the collection of any benefit. This will mean that private individuals cannot engage in kindergarten, and that many parents will lose a good kindergarten offer. That being said, there has been a development in the sector that means that we need to take a closer look at the legislation. The purchase of kindergartens has become more common, and we see a consolidation of the larger-group sector. Some sellers are left with large sales gains. The government's objectives are effective and qualitatively good kindergartens with long-term owners who have legitimacy among the inhabitants. We have started a major effort to look at the financing of private kindergartens, the use of government grants and parental payments, and the supervisory system. This will happen in close dialogue with the sector. An important part of the work is to expand and update knowledge about the sector. Among other things, we have outsourced a job to look at the underlying causes of high sales gains and borrowings and how profitable it is to operate kindergartens in Norway. I would like to remind you that it has not been long since the Stortinget dealt with a similar case, about profit-free kindergartens. The SV representative proposal in spring 2017 did not receive a majority, but the Stortinget asked the government to consider issues of right of establishment and extension in order to preserve the diversity of actors. Furthermore, the Stortinget has asked the government to set up a public sample to identify cash flows in publicly funded welfare services. That means that this work is already well under way. It is important in this area that we have a good knowledge base. As the representative Gruvan said, we need to know what we're doing. There is a need for predictability for ideals, for private, yes, for those who run kindergartens. I register that proposal No. 3 today will be adopted. This is an investigation work that we're already doing, and it's quite possible to see if there can be a distinction between ideal and commercial. But I notice what the representative of Gruvan says, namely, that we are asking for an investigation in the first place. In other words, we are not expected to present a proposition in the first round, but a knowledge base that can form the basis for possibly going on at a later stage. The representative of SV also wants to introduce legal requirements to ensure equal pay and working conditions for employees of private kindergartens and employees of municipal kindergartens. I believe it would be an obvious breach of party cooperation in Norwegian working life. Traditionally, it is up to the parties to agree on pay and employment as long as this is in accordance with the applicable legislation. There will be a very special solution for municipalities to determine working and pay conditions for employees in private kindergartens and that this is not a result of negotiations between the employee and the employer. Finally, we have high ambitions for the kindergarten sector. Children shall be guaranteed good conditions in kindergartens. That is why we have also introduced a minimum requirement for basic personnel – we are proposing it – and a standard for pedagogical density.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1187	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1192	I thank the Council of State for the article. From rejecting this issue of profit in welfare entirely, the Right has also adopted parts of the problem description. I think that's good. It shows that you've moved. It is good that there is a review in terms of purchase and sale and debt financing, but it still does not address the core of the problem and the challenge. Gains may be collected in different ways than dividends: forms of ownership, internal billing, billing for pooling services. Here the law is unclear. It's e.g. no one who can give a good definition of what a reasonable annual result is or who has taken the initiative to clean up what might be complicated ownership. This leads, among other things, to: that the municipalities that go to court are largely dismissed from their case. This has resulted in the County of Rogaland saying that it makes supervision very demanding – not because of the location of supervision, but because of the law. The question is: a review is fine, but why won't the Minister of Knowledge touch the core? Why, for example, do you want to do this? not go into and look at a proper definition of what is a reasonable annual result, which could have cleared up this discussion?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1201	We're open to looking at different relationships. What's important to me is that we get a knowledge base before we draw the conclusions. It would be unfortunate for those who run kindergartens, whether it's ideal to be private, if you were to decide on a new code. I would also like to stress that our position is child's. The children should be guaranteed a good kindergarten offer. Our position is that the parents should have good freedom of choice. Then we don't take sides whether it's private, ideal or municipal kindergartens. We need a good and predictable framework, so that we have a diversity in the offer. That is why we now see that there are questions that we need to address in terms of the private sector, including the private sector. in the case of sales, gain and large borrowings. We want to get the knowledge base in place, and then we're open to discussing actions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1208	I thank the Council of State for the answer and the fine rhetoric, which I believe is 99 pst. the members of the Storting could agree at any time. I would like to address something that the Council of State had in mind in its article: the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party have a proposal in this case in which we ask the government to assess the possibility of equivalent pay, employment and pension conditions. We hear from both the Council of State and the representative of the Progress Party earlier in the debate that it is believed that this proposal intervenes in tripartite cooperation, and that this is very negative. When we from the Labour Party ask the government to investigate something that has to do with working conditions, we take it as a matter of course to discuss it with the parties. It could be said that we have a government that needs to be clarified from Stortinget that you should talk to the parties. I would like to ask the Council of State: will the government not engage in dialogue with the parties in future cases when the Stortinget decides to investigate, for example. what has to do with working life unless the Storting emphatically clarifies it in the decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1218	I believe the representative Henriksen is aware that the blue-green government has close and good dialogue with the social partners. Our point is that in terms of pay and working conditions, there is a responsibility for the social partners, and it would be totally unnatural if local authorities or the state were to assume that responsibility. These are the social partners' responsibilities, and it is important that we maintain.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1223	Today we experience major changes in the way private kindergartens are driven. It has become a large buying-in market, and we even see groups who own and operate kindergartens across borders. The government parties indicated in the recommendation that the Education Directorate has been commissioned to examine the experience of municipalities with the rules on the use of grants. This was stated in a letter from the government in connection with a draft representative from the 2016-2017 session. Then I wonder: When can we expect to see the outcome of this investigation, and what measures can we expect from the government when we already see, in the handling of this matter, that the government parties are so little constructive in the suspension?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1230	Who is constructive or not constructive, I shall be careful to approach. What matters to the blue-green government is that we have a good knowledge base for the decisions we make. I register that some parties in Stortinget are overly pervasive. I think it creates unforeseeableness. It could create challenges for both private and non-profits who run kindergartens. We're dedicated to getting a good knowledge base in place. We're going to work fast in this case, but the most important thing for us is that we get investigations on the table, and then we want to have dialogue with both the kindergarten sector and parties in the Stortinget to find the right solutions. In this discussion, we should not forget that the parents are very satisfied with the kindergartens either. I think we can enjoy that, across the party-political dividing lines. And I'm recording that they're most satisfied with the private kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1239	The size has adopted a child care law which states that government grants and parental benefits are to be paid to children in kindergarten. Unfortunately, through the media, we have seen some serious examples of kindergarten owners who grant large management fees and private profits, among other things. through the purchase and sale of kindergartens. Then the council says he agrees with the SV's simple principle that the money allocated to kindergartens should go to kindergartens. But then I wonder if taking dividends in the million class – perhaps in the hundreds of millions class – is compatible with this simple principle?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1246	SV can be pleased that in this area this is not just the SV principle. I think all the parties agree that government grants and parental payments should benefit the children. But then it is that in its time it was SV together with the Progress Party that took the initiative for the kindergarten reform and the kindergarten reconciliation. It was then arranged for private participation in kindergarten development, and that it would be possible to make dividends – because you also take a risk. Some predictability must also be available to private nursery owners. We agree that when we now see a consolidation with large sales gains and large borrowings, we should look at it more closely – not because we are going to fight against individuals or because we are going to spare others, but because we want good kindergartens, where the money benefits the children, and where parents are going to have a diversity to choose from. We need both private, ideal and municipal kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1251	Full childcare provision has created a need for the establishment of supervision systems to ensure good quality in both municipal and private kindergartens. We know that the follow-up of private kindergartens by municipalities happens at random and is different from municipality to municipality. Furthermore, the supervisory system of the county has not been set up to act as a system that provides a full overview of quality and how public funds are used. It has therefore been pointed out that an independent body capable of supervising both municipal and private kindergartens in relation to the requirements of good kindergarten practice has been identified. Will the Council of State support the establishment of an independent supervisory body to control both municipal and private kindergartens in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1258	I am primarily concerned that we should have a good oversight. Much may indicate that we need better supervision. Then we are going to have a review of different aspects of both funding and framework conditions. Then I will not foreshadow whether there may be a need for anything else. I will not now decide whether to go on independent supervision. I am primarily concerned that it should be good. So we can always discuss whether to do it one way or the other.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1263	More and more people are responding to tax money being taken from kindergartens to private enrichment. Six out of ten is against it, only 27 pst. is for. But the right-hand side thinks this is okay, and it's a little weird, because the right-hand side supports the ban on dividends in school. Nor has the representative Asheim given a very good reason for this. He says, "You can't take dividends." And that's right and fair all the time this is a publicly funded offer. The same is true of kindergartens. It's also a publicly funded offer, but right here is opposed to a profit ban. According to the Right, it is true that owners can take money that is granted to kindergarten children, while it is wrong that owners take money granted to kindergarten children. I want an answer to what is the fundamental difference between a five-year-old in kindergarten and a six-year-old in high school, and that justifies the widely differing views of the Right on the benefits of welfare services.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1270	Unlike the representative of Moxnes, I do not have a dogmatic view of this; I have a pragmatic approach. In the field of education, the offer is essentially a public offer. Private alternatives in the school sector form only a small part. We've been totally dependent on getting private actors involved to expand the kindergarten sector. SV, the Advance Party and the other parties wanted to have the private ones with them, and they opened up the possibility of taking dividends because of taking risks. What we're discussing is how big it should be and how the cash flows are. I have now started that work. We need to put in place a knowledge base, and that knowledge base will help us to have a good framework. But we want to have a diversity in the offer. I register that Red has a different attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1275	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1282	It is important that this debate does not constitute a debate on whether you are in favour of or against private kindergartens in the country. That's not what this is about. Under the red-green government, we had the baby hail of the times. Anyone who wanted kindergarten would get an offer. In order to achieve that objective, it was important that all of them act together, including in a gender equality perspective, not least that all of them should receive a good quality offer across our country, and that there was cooperation between municipalities and private actors and non-profit actors. But not least the municipalities were supposed to organise a good childcare service in their municipality, with good content, with good quality. This debate is about our most important welfare services, whether they should be driven with a background in a desire to make the most of money rather than offering children the best possible offer. The working party is concerned that private kindergartens are given pay, employment and pension conditions in line with those in the public sector, and that municipalities are given the opportunity to make the same demands on private and non-profit institutions as municipal kindergartens when it comes to, among other things. opening hours and admission of children with special needs, etc. The Labour Party wants parents to be sure that the money they pay for them makes the kindergarten even better for their kids. Therefore, we will prevent commercial gains from the kindergarten sector, which are financed by Community funds and parental payments. The working party will be clear on several points, the Community funds will be limited in kindergartens and the withdrawal of profits through a clearer and stricter regulatory framework, the availability of clear quality requirements to ensure that all children are offered a good offer and profit opportunities are reduced, and the transparency of where the money goes in the sector will be ensured. Half of Norwegian children go to a private kindergarten. Private kindergartens constitute an important offer, most of which operate properly and with good quality, with skilled employees, etc. People are generally happy with their kindergarten. The working party will ensure that the funds are spent on the young and prevent a development in which kindergartens become speculative objects for large investors. Then we have to make the rules clearer and protect the ideal kindergartens, which do not make large profits today. Private kindergartens include both non-profit and commercial kindergartens, but commercials are taking over more and more of the ideals, and the Workers' Party will improve the conditions of the ideal kindergartens so that they are not challenged by commercial kindergartens. We know far too little about where the money goes, there is little supervision, and there are examples of some actors taking large dividends from kindergarten. The working party will have all the necessary information on the table to ensure that the funds for kindergartens are used on a quality basis for the children – with several employees with the right skills.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1298	It is a new political time in which we live. The uncertainty and populist winging of the Workers' Party in kindergarten, school and education policy under Jonas Gahr Støre and Martin Henriksen's leadership are clear and clear. Nevertheless, it is sad – most of all for kindergartens, students, teachers and parents. What the Workers' Party thinks from day to day in these questions seems to be left to be whether there are heads or coins that appear in the hand at the start of the day. Two weeks ago, there was a report from the Education Directorate. The largest parental survey of Norwegian kindergartens, where over 100 000 parents, from both municipal and private kindergartens, have participated. Fortunately, we know the result from this when we now discuss this topic. The report shows that parents with children in private kindergartens are consistently more satisfied with the offer than parents with children in municipal kindergartens. Not on one of the 30 parameters the municipal kindergartens beat the private ones. Private kindergartens have a total of 10 percentage points more parents who say they are very satisfied with their child’s kindergarten than the municipal ones, and in the case of perhaps the most important field – how well the kindergarten prepares the child for school start – says 50 pst. by the parents with children in private kindergartens that they are very satisfied, against 42 pst. by the parents with children in the municipalities. Parents with children in private kindergartens are more satisfied with outdoor areas, indoor areas, toys, equipment, hygiene, versatility in play, activities, staffing density, ability to encourage curiosity and playfulness, take into account the views of parents and take care of the safety of children — to mention something. In addition, we know that sick leave is partly significantly lower than in municipal kindergartens. In my home municipality, Trondheim, the Socialist majority tried to ban commercial kindergartens last year. Fortunately, the decision was tested by the County and found invalid. The progress party in Trondheim City Board took the fight that time, today we do the same in the Stortinget for the private kindergartens. To be honest, I don't understand what it is that left-hand side wants to live. Those who were on duty, and who did so that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV could say in their reign that they now had almost full child care coverage, should now be thrown under the bus as soon as the work is done. It's a juda kiss we've rarely seen the husband of in Norwegian politics. In the setting, the same three batches state that ‘public funds used for welfare shall benefit the users of the services’. In it there is a huge distrust, namely that it does not happen today. It must be written by politicians in this house who sit far away from reality. The private have not primarily enriched themselves; they enrich the public with well 2 billion. kr per year.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1321	Speaking of judaskyss, I can rest assured that for the Workers' Party, the most important thing in the kindergarten policy is to ensure the children's good kindergartens, no matter who owns the nursery. Half of our kids go to private kindergartens, and they make an important offer where they all, most of them really do and have good quality. But that is not what this debate is about. This debate is about the fact that, as a community, we must not look through our fingers with what we know, namely that there are some private actors, commercial groups, who are making large profits instead of spending money on quality and staffing. We in the Workers' Party want the large amount of money that the community invests in kindergartens to remain in the kindergartens to ensure that children are offered the best possible offer, that profits are limited by a clearer and stricter regulation, that a ceiling is set and that transparency is ensured as to where the money goes in the sector. We also want clear requirements for quality and staffing, both in private and public kindergartens, so that the money benefits the children. Because when the community invests billions in private grants, it must also be possible to impose requirements on use. When private kindergartens receive the same grants as the municipal councils, it is strange that the right-wing parties are centrally opposed to meeting the same quality requirements for private kindergartens. If they had experienced challenges with today's legislation itself, they on the Storting might have seen it differently. That's why I'm going to round off some of my own experiences in the community. As rapporteur, I went to elections on equal terms for public and private kindergartens. The working party locally wanted all kindergartens to be good, no matter who owned them. Therefore, the local government of the Nesodden private kindergartens gave far higher subsidies than what we were required by law. We would treat it in a non-discriminatory way. But then we learned that the law did not give us the opportunity to expect equivalent offers from the private kindergartens. Some of them had a significantly shorter opening time than the municipal ones, and we found out we could neither shorten the grant nor make demands. Both parents and blue, green and red local politicians believed that when you paid the same amount for a welfare service, you also had to expect an equivalent offer. Why doesn't the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left Party of the Bighold see the same thing?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1334	I will again take advantage of the opportunity to praise the private kindergartens, and I also encourage the left to say at least some positive words about the efforts the private kindergartens have made for the families here in the country. Without the private kindergartens we had not had full kindergarten coverage, we had not had diversity in the kindergarten sector, and we had not had freedom of choice for the families. Then we should praise them for that effort and not beat their legs under them. The parents are actually satisfied with the private kindergartens. Is it not more important that parents have received what they want than who owns the nursery? I record in this debate that Red is more concerned with showing his resistance to everything that is private, and blackpainting the private kindergarten sector, rather than telling what is wrong with the offer it gives. The requirements of private kindergartens are quite similar to those of public and non-profit institutions and grants and parental payments are quite similar. The private kindergartens are left with a profit of on average 0.4 pst. It's not much. If the private investors had put this money in the bank, the interest profit would have been significantly higher. I want to know from the party Red and those in the Workers' Party who have now entered and supported Red, how far they are willing to go to punish absolutely all kindergartens in order to avoid a few making money. Are they willing to make sure that we no longer have full babysitting? In the election campaign, the Labour Party rejected any claim to prohibit profit. We now see that the Workers' Party is allying with SV and Red in the fight against private welfare providers. It's almost impossible to believe: they run an active witch hunt in the municipalities, in Oslo, Trondheim, Bodø, Harstad and Tromsø – an active policy in which they forbid the private to establish themselves. A concrete example here in Oslo is Espira, who has bought an area regulated for kindergarten and has wanted to start a private kindergarten, but has actually received a refusal from the Municipality of Oslo because they do not want more commercial actors in the kindergarten sector. I have to say I'm being scared by this reverse operation to the Workers' Party. My children use private kindergartens that belong to these big, commercial chains they want to live. It's a natural nursery, where children can explore nature and learn to use nature in a sustainable way. The kindergarten has animals, like goats, hens and rabbits, because they believe that children who learn to be good with animals also become good with other people. Barnhagen has had the highest satisfaction in the municipality for many years, and I believe that the parents here would be willing to go on a torch to get permission to keep it. It's not like big companies are profit hunters. They are welfare providers, and each nursery in the chain is as unique as its children. Does the Labour Party really think that only public and ideal actors are delivering good kindergartens? And what will they say to the hundreds of parents who are satisfied with their kindergarten? In the kindergarten sector, it is no longer possible to see differences between the Workers' Party and the Red Party. This policy will lead to the death of a kindergarten, which will lead to the fact that we no longer have full child care coverage, not diversity and not freedom of choice for parents to decide for themselves which kindergartens are best.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1351	This is an important question. It concerns very many of us who have had, have or are going to have children in kindergarten and want a good offer for our kids. But I must also say that I think the debate bears the mark that both parties on the far right and on the far left have a great interest in polarising this issue as much as possible. It is certainly appropriate for the Progress Party and Red to do so, but I do not think it is very wise for the debate. I think we have a common starting point, which we'll forget a little bit. I have no problem saying that I agree with the representative Tybring-Gjedde that we need to follow the cash flows more closely and look at what is of sales gains and loans in this sector, because that is important. And it's an important work that the government has started there. But after hearing the representative, Bruun-Gundersen, I wonder if the Progress Party is really behind that work, because her posts were very categorical. I also agree with the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party that we have to limit access to dividends, but the Senter Party does not believe that we should prohibit it, we believe that we have to limit it with regard to the government grants. I also agree that it is necessary to ensure proper pay and work conditions and to be sure that you have them both in private and in public kindergartens. So I think that the debate has a bit of a desire to polarize this because a sees party political gain in it, both from the Progress Party, from the SVs and from the Red Party. I am not sure whether this is appropriate for the part of the debate. The centre party will vote subsidiaryly for the proposal of the Workers' Party, SV and the Christian People's Party, proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox We initially thought that the proposal gave a little too narrow a distinction between ideal and commercial because the private part of the kindergarten sector is so lacking. You have the big commercials, you have the smaller privates, and then you have the ideals. We believe that an assessment by the government of that issue should also provide an opportunity to look at different types of private kindergartens in addition to what goes right on the distinction between non-profit and commercial. We therefore hope that the government can take with it the need to look at the variation in ownership in private kindergartens and not least the size of the private nursery sector when they follow the proposal further. So we also believe, like the Christian People's Party, that this doesn't have to come back in terms of a bill proposition, but that you can get back to the Bighold in an appropriate way, for example. through a potential study, as mentioned earlier. I would also like to inform you that the Central Party will subsidize proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1368	Politicians from all the political parties in Stortinget are to be congratulated for the presence of private actors in Norway who provide services to the population. Without private actors, the provision of childcare facilities would be much fewer, and for the Progress Party, it is essential that there be diversity, clear quality requirements and freedom of choice in the provision of welfare services. One of the most effective sectors in Norway, which many countries envy us, is the nursery sector, which has been a focus of this government, but also the previous one. SV made a very good effort in government to build more kindergartens, but it looks like they've forgotten a little about the background. They had not done so much without idealistic entrepreneurs all over the country who were willing to spend their savings, time, energy and a burning commitment to building up the best possible offer for our kids. And they have succeeded. About half of the country's children go to private kindergartens. We recently had a comprehensive parental survey, and out of 30 questions in the large national survey, there is not one question where municipal kindergartens score best. On seven questions it is similar, and in areas where private wins, outdoor areas are better, premises are better, toys are better, hygiene is better, food is better, and safety is better. In addition, parents consider that the private kindergartens are best suited for preparing the kids for school. Remember, private kindergartens don't cost taxpayers $1 more than public kindergartens, but actually it saves public for $2.15 billion. kr annually. The representative of Fagerås said that she does not want the private kindergartens to live, but then it's quite unique that after asking all the private ones to stand on, spend their money, their evenings building up a good deal, we're going to launch an ideological campaign where the ultimate goal is to prevent them from earning the investment they've spent time and money on. Private kindergartens have an average of 0.4 pst. profits. Many go in deficit, 31 pst. In 2015, but what we see now, unfortunately, is that the left-hand side of the proposals today mobilises against private kindergartens when they want to have a majority for the proposal to prevent profit and also the possibility to ban private kindergartens. Without the private kindergartens, we had not had the offer we have today. We had not had the quality, and we had not had the freedom of choice. So, unfortunately, it was too few who saw sky-high sales gains as a result of the great hard work, where someone got free land and favorable loans. There is something it should have been a regulation of, which I would like to welcome, but what is on the table today is a general ban and applies to all private individuals. For the Progress Party, it is an important principle that parents are responsible for the growth and education of children. Another principle is nutrition. Then parents must choose kindergarten and school for the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1381	It has been interesting to follow the debate so far, and it is good to see that there is broad support for the government in the work that has begun to look at cash flows and how to carry out controls and supervision, and not least to ensure this through good quality in the kindergarten sector. On the other hand, it is very regrettable, I would say, to register that the Workers' Party, a little wrapped up, has started what I see as a gradual depriorization of the private kindergartens. It actually started a while ago, but it became most obvious in their alternative state budget, where you cut 300 million. kr to all non-municipal kindergartens. Now they're following up on banning profit. You can actually read the wording of the proposal, and, as Mr Henriksen said in his main speech, you want to prevent dividends. That's what I think is a very strange approach from the Workers' Party, all the time we have a kindergarten settlement here in the hall, and there's been a great deal of effort in the field that has led us to where we are today -- especially in the light of the fact that information suggests that 95 pst. of the private nursery sector have collective agreements, that the 2015 accounts, which have been discussed by several, show that only 0.4 pst is available. dividends, that 31 pst. of the kindergartens in the private sector are in deficit, and very many of those who own the kindergartens that are in deficit use dividends from the other kindergartens that make money to cover the deficit of those who are in deficit, i.e. the dividend strictly contributes to ensuring that we have a diversity in the private nursery sector. In addition, when we look at user surveys and sick leave statistics that employees, parents and children — all — are satisfied, this whole political left turn actually seems quite absurd. Let it be clear: the government parties will have better and closer follow-up, but this is done to ensure that we have a clean and good sector, that we should have a diversity – not too step-by-step towards unification, as I hear some people in practice speak for today. Everyone has to be seen in the cards, and we have to learn from the best, because the goal has to be high quality. Therefore, there is little doubt that we need to ensure diversity in the future, we need to ensure continued positive development in kindergartens. This is necessary if we are to take up the work of early action.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1390	It's amazing how several parties that have previously honoured the private kindergartens for their contribution to the labour to achieve full child care coverage, a virtue to which they themselves have invited, are now increasingly making these as someone who is trying to enrich themselves with the community's resources. The representative Martin Henriksen, from the Workers' Party, said a little earlier in the debate that for the Workers' Party, good quality is the most important thing. That's for the right as well, and we're equally concerned that the money spent on kindergartens should benefit the children. So I am glad that the government has already announced a review of supervision in the sector, and that there is also to be seen on the sale of kindergartens and loan-funded purchases, which we are now looking at the structural change that has occurred. This has been discussed earlier in the debate, so I'm not going to spend that much time on it. What we probably agree on in any case is that all kindergarten activities should take legal and serious forms, both in public, in ideals and in private kindergartens. However, there is a difference between how someone realises the benefit of the sale of kindergartens – which we will look at – and the use of public funds provided in operating support for private kindergartens. I have repeatedly challenged representatives, not least from the SV and the Workers' Party, to give me one concrete example of the fact that operating aid granted to private kindergartens has gone to enrich rich owners and is hidden in tax havens. So far, the examples have been missing. I would therefore like to talk a little bit about how some representatives and parties try to create a picture of public money that does not go to good kindergartens for our children, but to light-sky companies that hide away money in tax havens. So what is the definition of a tax haven? According to Great Norwegian Encyclopaedia, a state or geographical area of self-determination in tax policy offers non-residents and enterprises owned by non-residents zero-tax conditions and a law that prevents transparency from the outside world. In this hall Guernsey has been drawn up several times as such a tax haven and is also mentioned when we are talking about kindergartens. Then it's a little interesting to record that a good, state-owned Norwegian investment company, Argentum under the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries, has 24 funds and values for 8.6 billion. kr located on Guernsey – at least according to the last figures I had access to. The state company states that they have no concerns about investment in Guernsey. They make strict demands on the funds in which they invest and invest only in funds established in jurisdictions that comply with the standards of the United Nations and the Global Forum for the Transparency and Exchange of Information in Tax Matters and that ensure the exchange of information with Norwegian tax authorities. That's what these agreements do. Guernsey meets these requirements, and this is just one example. That private companies should be able to make a reasonable profit, subject to the restrictions imposed by the law, there has been a long-term agreement. But the same people who protest loudly against private kindergartens doing this seem to be quite comfortable with the fact that regulars, dentists and physiotherapists are private providers who provide publicly funded welfare services in the municipalities of our residents. This is a little bit of a principle. What we have to do is to ensure our children the best possible welfare offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1405	We are about to round the debate. I record that the parties on the left have still not managed to boast about the private kindergartens, which have the country's most satisfied parents, and which have contributed to a national effort to ensure full child care coverage. I would like to make a few comments on the specific proposals that have been put forward in the matter. It concerns proposal No. 2, promoted by the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The representative Sandberg has used speaking time today to talk about opening hours, and there are private kindergartens with short opening hours. In all other areas of manning and quality requirements, today the requirements are equally public and private. This proposal, dear Workers' Party, may soon be misunderstood. I understand that the Workers' Party needs to be able to instruct the private kindergartens to have longer opening hours. That being said, the private kindergartens today have a much longer opening time than the municipal ones, but this proposal can be used to interpret it quite the opposite. We have dozens of municipalities in Norway today that have implemented local decisions to have a four-day school week. How does the representative of the Labour Party think that these municipalities are going to deal with this proposal — for example: require private kindergartens to offer a maximum of four days in kindergarten? I would like to say, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, that this proposal is extremely unfortunate. It is much better for the market to decide that parents themselves should have the freedom to decide what is best for themselves. In terms of pay and working conditions, we have proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. We have proposal No. 6 from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. We have a loose proposal, No. 10, from the Red Party – in addition to proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. All these proposals contain pay and working conditions in some form. None of them today have a majority. I would urge the Labour Party and the Christian People's Party to vote in a subsidiary way at least for proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. We recognise that the tripartite cooperation and the Norwegian model in Norwegian society are good. 95 pst. of the private kindergartens currently have a collective agreement. I do not want to join in and oblige the government to review them, to review the local agreements negotiated by the social partners. However, the Progress Party is willing to adjust requirements for pay and working conditions in the private kindergartens that do not currently have a collective agreement. The proposal specifically states that we ‘ask the government through tripartite cooperation to consider how it can be ensured that employees in private kindergartens without collective agreements have good pay, employment and pension conditions’. I want to believe that there is something of the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party that is concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1416	It's more unsavory when political parties in this hall become more ignorant than they really are. When both the Right and the Advance Party are able to make claims that, for example: The working party on the proposals available here will put down thousands of kindergartens and contribute to the death of children, and that they refer to private kindergartens as ‘Greek profit hunters’, that ignores the debate – because it is not true, because the Labour Party has not used those words, and because that is not what is in the proposals. It is also nice because there are many private kindergartens that agree with the Workers’ Party’s proposal. I am interested in explaining why many private kindergartens support what we have proposed. It's hardly because they're afraid to be killed. It probably doesn't help us repeatedly in the Workers' Party to clarify what is our policy and our position in the matter: that we don't want a total ban on profits overnight, but that it should be possible to build equity for investments, renovation and proper kindergarten, and that we are concerned with diversity, among other things. through proposals with the Christian People's Party to fence about the ideal kindergartens. That's why it's not a great idea to talk to the Right and the Advance Party today either. I would rather talk to all parents and say that they should be sure that we should hold on to higher ambitions for kindergarten than the government has: a more ambitious educational norm, 50 pst. kindergarten teachers and a staffing standard that is well established, that we want regular children’s groups – as researchers say is important for quality, as we have proposed, but which have been downgraded – and that we realize that quality costs. A good start is to ensure that funds that are already to be used for kindergartens are used on the quality there. In my previous post, I also recognized the job done in private kindergartens, by thousands of engaged employees. I would also like to repeat: those who do not take large profits that should have gone to the children have nothing to fear with these proposals either. I am pleased that the government has now adopted parts of the reality description of winnings and profits in kindergarten. Just a year ago, and in the campaign, we saw that they didn't recognise the problem at all. I hope this is not a kind of rhetorical camouflage, but that it will actually mean action. When the government parties say that they agree with the intentions of the Children's Court Act, they will not investigate changes to the laws on how to secure them. When they say they're worried about the small, ideals, they won't look at how to strengthen them through a legal distinction. And if the government is actually concerned about putting places in small kindergartens, they can take seriously the investigation that came yesterday – for which PBL and KS are concerned – which says that one of four small kindergartens is concerned and says that they have to resign because of the poor and poor investigation by the government of a recruitment standard. It would have been a good place to start if you really mean the words in the hall today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1431	I asked the State Council why the Right is for a dividend ban in school, but for a dividend ban in kindergarten. The answer was that they take risks, these welfare professionals in the kindergarten sector. So the question is, what risk do they actually take? First, they receive exactly as much grants as municipal kindergartens, although they very often give their employees a lower pension and often have fewer employees than municipal kindergartens. Second, it's the buildings. The buildings have been remunerated by the investment grant, so in sum: the Community pays down the investment costs of the commercial owners. Commercial owners receive the same amount of funding as municipal kindergartens, although they often have lower costs. And in addition, they take profit. So they get in sacks and bags – and fines – from the community, and they take no risk, because the risk lies in the community, that is, the municipalities, if anything happens. For example, Benn Eidissen and Even Carlsen made $0.5 billion. kr when they sold out their holdings in the children's home group Norlandia in 2017 – half a billion. They had invested around NOK 540,000. It's going to be 81 pst. returns every year for 10 years on our tax money, without taking any risk. It is this policy on which the Stortinget has suspended, and unfortunately still hangs on, which is completely meaningless, and as 61 pst. by the population is against, because they believe that this money should go to the best possible well-being, not to this benefit for welfare professionals. Then the Progress Party says: Say something nice about the private ones. For years I have explained to the Progress Party – unfortunately for deaf ears – that we are pursuing a policy to strengthen the private, ideal kindergartens that are being displaced, bought up and swept out of the commercial chains. Now the Progress Party must soon understand that the ideal actors are not municipal. The ideal actors are private, and we want to help these actors against the commercial ones that the Progress Party protects, which unfortunately exorcises the ideals of fires and displaces diversity in the kindergarten sector. And those who work in kindergartens, no matter where it is, who stand on every two days and make an amazing effort, we want to give better conditions. What we want to do to life is that profit is taken out of kindergarten. We're going to end this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1445	During this debate, we have probably come to the conclusion that everyone agrees that the money will benefit the children. The right and the government believe that a wide range of good-quality nursery services is what benefits children as long as the kindergarten law is followed. And that's where it's starting to shriek a little bit in this debate. Because it says in the kindergarten law that there is a restriction on dividends, it is only allowed to draw a reasonable annual profit. So as long as you do not have much lower staff costs, as long as you have only invoiced expenses relating to the nursery, you should be able to take out a reasonable annual profit, just to make it more attractive to invest money in creating more good nursery places than to put the money in a right-hand account or savings account. This is where I don't understand what the Workers' Party means. The representative Henriksen said in his first post that they want to ‘restrict profit, but without hitting small and ideals’. The proposal states that the money should not be ‘for the benefit of private kindergarten owners’. The only way you can understand this is if you want to change the kindergarten law, so that you no longer have this access to reasonable profit. In his last post, the representative Henriksen said that they never said that they would forbid profits overnight. Then my question is, why add «overnight»? I guess that's because you actually want to ban profit, but you can't say it in this debate. It will play thousands of kindergartens – thousands of children go to private kindergartens, and it will make it harder to run private kindergartens. The right is too quality in the kindergarten sector, and we want the money to be used effectively to ensure this. A variety of childcare services are just what they do. The difference between the Workers' Party and the Government is that we don't fall in love with ownership. We want to follow the cash flows, make sure that the kindergarten law is complied with, and we want to talk about quality in kindergartens. What I would like the Workers' Party to do was support during the government's review. First of all, there is little evidence that the dividend limit in the kindergarten law is constantly being broken away, and there is nothing to suggest that kindergartens inflate their expenses internally. Statistics show, on the contrary, that private individuals have lower costs of normal operation than local authorities. What has been a challenge, on the other hand, has been the gain of sales, that 10–15 years ago they had very favourable conditions, perhaps cheap plots, and now they sell expensively. It is one of the main issues that the government is now going through because there should be no market failure in the kindergarten sector. I want to challenge the representative Henriksen, who has 1 minute's speaking time left, to answer why he added «overnight», because I think there are a lot of private kindergarten owners sitting out there who are quite nervous and wondering what the answer is.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1456	What does it mean to put the children first? I mean, when we talk about kindergartens, it means to people the most that we have kindergartens with a content and quality which ensure that the nursery is a safe place for parents and children has many enough kindergarten places has so many nursery places that parents can also choose which nursery the children should go to Such a society means that we equalise all kindergartens, regardless of whether they are run by private, non-profit or public. The fact that the Workers' Party has actually moved to a rhetoric that could mean a reduction in the number of kindergartens is worrying. Does the Workers' Party think that by prohibiting or limiting the possibility of taking out profits, they are putting children first? If you had done the same experiment with e.g. retail trade, i.e. limited to the possibility or even imposed a ban on making money, profit-taking and taking out some of the dividends, would you have put the customer in the center? How many grocery stores do the Workers' Party think we would have had if we had a law against taking out part of the profits? What would the incentive be to set up its store so that it was run well, efficiently and in such a way that the customers had acted exactly in that store? When someone spends time and money betting on something they believe in, they do it, of course, to make money. The fact that some parties have ideological prejudices against everything that is private is no surprise, but that the Workers' Party is now taking time to talk down the private sector and thus the main reason why we live in one of the world's best countries is disappointing. Most people choose their profession for many reasons, on the basis of knowledge and competence and on the basis of well-being. But without the ability to make money, they might have chosen different ways – the ability to make profits, to make money and to use them freely, to save or to invest in new ideas. It's the very driver that we have growth and development in society. Without the ability of the owners to profit from investing in kindergartens, they might have found other projects to invest in. Then we had still been a country with no good enough babysitting. Our goal must be to ensure that more and more citizens are given even more freedom of choice in the future – in health, in the care of the elderly, in all welfare systems we have where it is possible to give citizens real freedom of choice. We cannot stop the development of Norway because the Workers' Party has found that they want to drive political agitation and a senseless rhetoric. For the Progress Party, the content of the service, quality, freedom of choice – the ability to choose, but also the ability to opt out – is more important than saying that private individuals should not be able to make money on what they do.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1481	SV is proud of the kindergarten agreement. But when we see a development going in the wrong direction, it's natural for us to look at it again. It's actually our job, and it's responsible policy. I have noticed that after SV has been talking about this for several years, the Council of State now says that he understands the challenges that SV has pointed out – and not least been ridiculed by the Right in the election campaign – that the emergence of large kindergarten chains now calls for a thorough review of regulation of the sector and review of the supervisory activities, because there are major challenges to following the cash flow in large groups. This has meant SV a long time and a long time. We are pleased that this is now coming into place, and I hope that we will receive an information to the Stortinget about what such a review should include, and what kind of process and time perspective the government sees itself through in this regard. And if I really have to repeat it: SV is not against private kindergartens. I've had my own children in private kindergartens. But when it's said that these proposals we're promoting today are jeopardizing kindergartens, it's just horror propaganda. The fact that kindergartens are to be played out that employees in private kindergartens should have pay and working conditions in line with those in the public sector – I would like to have asked for such rhetoric. The only thing that is SV's principle in this case is that the money, the government grants and the parental payment that is meant to go to our kids should go to just that – to our kids.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1490	The representative, Martin Henriksen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1495	I am very pleased that the government parties have moved away from the totally reprehensible attitude they have had up until now. We have no problem supporting the government to review the purchase, sale and debt financing. Our point is that that's not enough. Where reference is made to the formulation of the Kindergarten Act on a reasonable annual result, there is one of the challenges and the essence of the matter: no one can give a clear definition of what this is. It is too vague a regulation, which makes it difficult to understand, more difficult to supervise, more difficult to deal with. The representative Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde asked about the expression "introducing a ban on profits overnight", which I used: it's because we fear that this is what SV's proposal can lead to, and that's why we don't vote for it. Otherwise, I would like to repeat the call that representatives do not become more ignorant than they are. Since the representative of the Progress Party used the term "customer in the centre", I would say that for us, the children are in the centre. It's about giving them an increasingly better offer. This case is about that, even though the Right Party and the Advance Party are trying to give the impression of something else.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1506	The representative Bears Moxnes has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1511	It's interesting to hear the Progress Party and the Right talk about ideological coercion. I remember when they ran Oslo, when they decided to ban building new municipal kindergartens – greetings The Advance Party and the Right, with the Left on the left. That gave Oslo the longest kindergarten cows in the country. Then we won the election two years ago, lifted the ban and said that we would rather expand these kindergartens into municipal and private non-profit-making regimes – without the welfare profitors on the ground. The result: we're expanding three times as many kindergartens now as when the Right Rule. This distinction between ideal and commercial is important to prepare. Therefore, I ask the other parties to consider voting in favour of Red's proposal to ask the government to withdraw the instruction that refuses the municipalities to conduct a red-green policy if there is a majority in the municipality to pursue a red-green policy. It's about local democracy. Even the bourgeois parties on Stortinget should appreciate the value of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1518	The representative Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1523	I thank the representative, Martin Henriksen, for using his 1-minute post to answer the question, but I still do not fully understand what the Labour Party wants, for part of reviewing the supervisory system, it is precisely to see whether the legislation is too unclear and whether it is too difficult for the municipalities today to interpret it. That's what we're going through right now. If I understand the representative Henriksen correctly, the Workers' Party will then change the ‘reasonable annual result’ to prevent private kindergarten owners from taking profits, except for ideal and small kindergartens. In other words, there will be a big left triangle in politics, and there will be a lot of kindergartens today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1528	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1544	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to five replies from members of the Government. In addition, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1555	The development of new nursing homes and homes is very important for the Progress Party. I am therefore very pleased that, together with the government partner Right, and now government partner, former partner, Left, and partner Christian People's Party, we have ensured a strong growth in the appropriations to rehabilitate and build new hospitals and nursing homes. Only in the last four years have we cut over 15 billion. kr that municipalities can use to build new nursing homes and housing. That's about. three times as much as the red-green managed on their last four years. The government has also invested in the daily activity offer of people with dementia and has clearly informed the municipalities that they must have an offer by 2020, because it will then be required by law. Funding is also provided to stimulate this, and municipalities may seek funding through a grant scheme. Unfortunately, not all municipalities until now, for varying reasons, have had the opportunity or wish to apply, which means that the grant funds have not been used up. But I'm pretty sure it's going to change in the years to come. I expect that the various parties will explain their views in the debate. Ensuring that elderly caregivers and other people with high needs for care and the need for furnished housing have safe and good living conditions is very important to us in the Progress Party. I am therefore very pleased that we have been able to see that the grant for the construction of new hospitals and nursing homes has increased considerably with the Advance Party in government together with the Right. In fact, the subsidy has increased by approx. 15 p.m., in addition to the fact that the framework set aside for construction and rehabilitation has increased sharply since the Progress Party and the Right took over the government offices in 2013. This has led many municipalities to start planning both to rehabilitate and expand and build new nursing homes and homes. To put it in perspective: The Progress Party, the Right and the Cooperation Parties have only set aside more than 5 billion in 2017. kr. It's more than the red-green claw in four years. It's going to be the construction of new spaces. At the same time, it means that the municipalities have now for many years been able to rehabilitate their worn-out buildings. That's good, because there's a lot of the housing stock that's had and still needs rehabilitation. There is also a great difference between municipalities and municipalities to the extent to which the property, nursing homes and nursing homes already in the municipality have been maintained. You actually have a responsibility. There is a big difference between those who take maintenance seriously and those who don't – those who are just thinking about getting new grants. As I said, the consequence has been an increase in the number of places. It has actually been less than what will be needed in the years to come, and therefore we have now wanted to shift the allocation of funds more from rehabilitation to the construction of new sites, so that municipalities are able to meet the growing need for places to come in the years to come. When we spend as many billions of dollars as we do, and there's probably still a lot of money to build hospitals and nursing homes, it's important that we get an increase in the number of places, so that we can make sure that anyone who needs it can actually get a safe and good home with assistance in their old age. I should like to see us be able to increase the contribution to the daily activities of people with dementia, but if you increase the grant and not the framework, the consequence is that we get fewer places, and I don't want that. I will continue to work so that even more people will be given the opportunity to offer day-to-day activities, preferably on an optional basis, in order to make a good offer in everyday life, while at the same time giving spouses and family members relief in a difficult everyday life. I am therefore very pleased that we have received a majority that some of the places within the daily activity offer can be used for example. Enter the tunnel, which has now been used by quite a number of farms to help young people who are struggling in school everyday. Drug users and people with mental health disorders may also use this daily activity offer for dementes. I've seen amazing moments in the encounters between humans and animals – which give memories of life or a few seconds where you see joy and joy. These places are also not more expensive than those offered in municipalities, often on the contrary even cheaper. I think maybe the most important thing is to get more municipalities to apply for space – several places are to cheer on creativity and innovation – and to put in place collaboration between private, voluntary and municipal and public.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1574	Over the past few weeks, I have received telephone calls from many happy rapporteurs and municipal politicians. The impact that we get today in Stortinget in terms of both nursing homes and dementia places, our municipalities are incredibly happy. It is about us sitting on the Stortinget and those who are municipal politicians playing on the same team. What the rapporteurs are telling me is that they now have predictability and can better plan to upgrade their homes. I was told that someone now risked having to wait for kindergarten or school projects to hurry to rehabilitate the nursing home faster than necessary, because the government would cut off the grant scheme for the rehabilitation of nursing homes. We in the Workers' Party do not want to be involved in a development where some people get to live in new and modern nursing homes, while others have to live in worn-out and inappropriate living rooms. In future care for the elderly, our hospitals have almost become municipal hospitals. High-tech equipment is used, and there are highly skilled staff working there. Then the rooms must be adapted to the needs of the inhabitants, in the health home of the future. We are also concerned that older people should be able to stay at home as far as possible. We believe that older people should be the boss of their own lives. Therefore, there is a need for more day-to-day activities. As the representative Hoksrud had in mind, there is an objective – or that is not an objective, it is actually a requirement – for municipalities to provide day-to-day activities for people with dementia by 2020. But this escalation has not gone fast enough. We know that there are some municipalities that have not started at all. The grant pot has also not been used up, which may indicate that the grant may not have been high enough for the municipalities to use it. Dementia plan 2020 points out that there are 9,200 places that are needed, and that is why we, as proposers, have put money into this. We know that this is going to cost money. 460 million. In addition, it will cost to increase the grant from 30 pst. to 50 pst. We are looking forward to the government now entering its budget, when they present it until the autumn. The whole point of increasing the number of daily activities is that people should be the boss of their own lives, that they should stay at home as far as possible, that relatives should receive a valuable and necessary relief in their everyday lives. And, not least, it is economically profitable — a day-time activity space for a person with dementia costs approx. 250,000 kroner, while for a nursing home place, we're going to calculate 1 million. kr per year. It is therefore important for our social economy that we can expose the need for a health home as far as possible, but, of course, those who need it must get it when they need it, and then they must have a modern room that is filled with well-being technology and that is just as good, whether you live in one or the other municipality. It's about dimensionalizing our care ladder as much as possible. That is why I am pleased that we received a unanimous decision in Stortinget when we discussed the government platform, where the Stortinget asked the government to put forward a case on new forms of funding, grants, for housing for the elderly, precisely so that we can expand the part of the care ladder that is further down. As it is now, many of our grants are arranged at the top, towards the care of the lucky day and the nursing home. That matter I look forward to getting to Stortinget, and I look forward to good cooperation in the committee on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1589	Would the representative like to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1594	Yes, I will. I'm addressing proposal No. 1, which the Workers' Party has together with the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1599	The representative Tuva Moflag has drawn up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1604	The early-warning scheme for hospitals and nursing homes was established by the red-green government based on the experience of similar care schemes in the 1998–2001 action plan for elderly care. Available cover from 2014 on average 50 pst. of the construction costs. In the 2017 municipal bill, the government announced that one in the 2017 draft government budget would change the takeover order. According to the government, only the net increase in total daily space was due. Thus, in the 2017 government budget, changes were made so that in 2021 there would be a demand for net support to be granted, and that would be a gradual introduction. So it's like we have more reports dealing with this, and we have facts about the state of the municipalities. On behalf of the KS, Rambøll has identified and evaluated existing housing and facilities for care purposes. On a national basis, they estimate that there are 13,300 care establishments and 24 000 institutional sites listed before 1998 which are currently part of day-to-day care. Their survey shows that about half of them have a useful condition, and that it will cost the municipalities about 37 billion. to modernise existing building mass used for day-to-day care up to a satisfactory functional level. It's a lot of money. Maintenance costs are not included in this estimate of costs. We mean that one can't have a state system that gives an incentive to tear down and build a new one rather than taking care of the existing building mass, which we have so much of. Indicative figures from the House Bank show that between 2008 and 2016, care places of 13 400 days have been allocated. Of these, 5,790 seats were registered with measures relating to renovation and replacement, i.e. more than one third. The November 2016 report ‘Rome for Care’, published in cooperation with the Government and KS, states that there may be a need for 22,000 more day-to-day care facilities by 2030. KS states in this report that not all municipalities will need net growth in the short term, but most municipalities need rehabilitation. This must also be covered by the rules of procedure. For municipalities with a high coverage level, there are not only more, but better places the municipalities need to raise their service supply. Quality improvement of old care facilities is necessary, not only because of lack of maintenance, but because care services today require a different body of property than before. Combined with the space buttoniness of many places, this means that in many cases rehabilitation is more relevant than new buildings. The central party believes that the framework conditions for municipalities must facilitate both the development of existing building mass and the establishment of new ones – that is, we must both facilitate the necessary new sites and rehabilitate and further develop existing ones. In the case of day-to-day activities, it becomes an obligation for municipalities to provide this by 2020. And we know that we can expect a doubling in the incidence of dementia in the population towards 2050. Daily activities are important, both for this patient group and for the relatives. The government, like the previous governments, has allowed money to make it possible to set aside for day-to-day activities. We know that the need is 9,200 places – that's government figures. By the end of 2016, 2,900 were established. We have a huge lag on expansion. When we see so many millions standing unused on the state budget year after year, we have to look at the devices of the budget. We have to increase it from 30 pst. until 50 p.m., so that it is equated with today's predicament for the construction of hospitals and day-to-day care facilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1627	Today, there is a majority party, and we start by ensuring a majority for better care for the elderly – against the votes of the government parties. All older people will have a safe and good care for the elderly, no matter how much money they have in their wallet. Under this government, the differences in power and wealth increase dramatically, and then there will be an extra pressure for the privatisation of services. Then it is our responsibility in this room to ensure that public care for the elderly is so good and safe that no one needs to buy their own services. There must also be good quality on our buildings. It should be nice to be there, and it should be an easy place to provide good services to the elderly. The right-hand side threatens this with its proposal. They believe that there should only be support for the net increase of space and nothing for rehabilitation. It's like saying that you're just allowed to build new buildings on your house, while the rest of the house is going to stand and fall. All people outside the Storting realize that it's a very bad idea, and fortunately the majority in here understands it too. About half of our nursing homes are not in good enough condition. With the proposals on the right, these will lose all support and continue to fall due. This means, in practice, that we are going to punish those municipalities that have been good at expanding many old-age care places in the past, just to provide grants to those who have lacked places and who are therefore getting net growth now. It is a very poor policy to give good incentives to municipalities to build up their early care for the elderly. The majority here in the hall is going to decide that we are equal to upgrading and modernisation and new buildings. One of the most important things for SV is that we also get a majority to support the conversion of double rooms into single rooms. With the government's proposal, if you turn a double room into two single rooms, you're going to get zero support, because that doesn't give you any more space. This means that all municipalities that still force older people to live in double rooms against their will will will not be helped to build more single rooms. It is unworthy to force the elderly to live in double rooms in a nursing home against their will. In the state budget, SV was entirely alone to suggest that municipalities should not be allowed to hold on like this anymore, and in just a few months we have received a majority in this room to secure funds to convert double rooms into single rooms. It's about securing all the older ones the opportunity to close the door behind them and say, "Now I'm home, now I'm home to myself." At the same time, we know that the government has no idea how many people live in double rooms against their will. SV has asked former Minister of Health and Care Bent Höie several times to get figures on how many people are forced to live in double rooms. We have not yet received an answer, and I am going to ask the Minister of Older People about it. Then we can see if the new senior minister of the Progress Party has a little more commitment to the elderly who are forced to live in double room against his will than to the one who was both the Minister of Health and Care from the Right. There will be increased grants to day centre areas for dents. It's very good, but as Bård Hoksrud of the Progress Party says, so important and correct, it really has to be about increasing the grant, not just increasing the percentage that municipalities get. Then I have a good news for the Progress Party and Bård Hoksrud: In the state budget for 2018 SV proposed as the only party more money for the construction of day centres in Norway, 37 million. kr. If Bård Hoksrud has suddenly got an involvement for the elderly with dementia, he can start voting for SV's budget proposal with more money for such places. A decent and good care for the elderly is ensured with wise choices. Differences in Norway are increasing, and SV believes that the money should go to public, good care for the elderly and not to tax cuts to the richest. That is why we are involved in ensuring a majority for the upgrading of nursing homes, good, safe nursing homes and that several older people will be allowed to live in single rooms and not be forced to live in double rooms against their will.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1646	This grant scheme for nursing homes and homes comes from the time of the central government – the action plan for elderly care 1998–2001. It is a good and important grant scheme. It means a lot to many municipalities. Therefore, when the Christian People's Party today participates in a decision that changes the arrangement of the grant scheme, this has a history. There's no new Christian People's Party joining us today. The Christian People's Party accepted, as part of the 2017 budget agreement, the proposed amendments to the grant schemes on net growth requirements for grants, although everyone knew that this was not in line with the view of the Christian People's Party. The Christian People's Party believes that the local authorities' framework conditions need to facilitate both in order to develop existing building mass and in order to establish new ones. It is socio-economicly unwise to penalise municipalities financially when they choose to rehabilitate and upgrade construction. Now that there is a majority in the Storting that the investment grant to the nursing homes and homes of the lucky day is changing so that new buildings and upgrading and modernisation of existing building masses are treated equally, we believe in the Christian People's Party that this is good. As it is today, government leaders and incentives make it pay to build a new building rather than to take care of existing buildings. I can't in my wildest imagination understand that it's a good social economy, and we all know what it's doing with the local economy. If we don't do anything about this, we're going to see that we get nursing homes in the a- and b-category: those that have a good and modern housing stock, and those that don't get upgraded housing stock. KS has also been extremely concerned about this in many ways and has said that it is good not only to have more hospitals but to have better places – better places to meet the needs of the patient category in 2018, 2019, 2020 and beyond. The size has also decided that municipalities have an obligation to offer day-time activities to people with dementia. Some of us who have experienced having a demented person in the vicinity, in the family, know what it means to have a good and worthy day's offer. The rate of expansion to date means that we are far from achieving the objectives we have set in this room until January 2020. In the past, the government has asked the government to assess measures to stimulate the faster development of the day-to-day provision of dentures, within the legal requirement that enters into force in 2020. We also know that what has been in the state budget has not been used enough. It's actually been under-consumption, and the under-consumption continues. Then the Christian People's Party believes it is necessary to make improvements to this funding mechanism so that more people can participate in these day-centres – which are important to the sick and also important to the families around. The proposers believe that the grant to establish and operate day-to-day activities should be raised to 50 pst. The Christian People's Party fully agrees. There are important proposals for changes The size of the population deals with today, and as there is now a majority in the United Kingdom to implement. The Christian People's Party believes this is a necessary measure to ensure the best possible development of care for the elderly in the coming period. In order to have good, decent construction that can at all times meet the medical needs that will be in hospitals, it is all the way necessary to upgrade. At the same time, we know that we'll need more places because more people live longer, and more people get older.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1664	The government is concerned that elderly and other users of care services should receive the services they need when they need it. We know that there are more older people in the years to come. They have the right to stay in a nursing home or similar accommodation when they need it. For these reasons, the government is concerned that municipalities need to build more lucky days care places in the future. Users must meet their needs. Therefore, we also say on the platform that we will provide grants for the net increase of places in hospitals and nursing homes. Local authorities have received investment grants for renovation for more than 20 years and not least for the renewal of out-of-date health care facilities. This investment grant has come to the top of investment grants and refurbishment through the framework grant. Construction and rehabilitation of the health care facilities of the lucky day has been and is a large sprawl layer. The government now believes it is time to focus more of its efforts on building more sites to ensure that older people receive the services they need. Final figures from the House Bank for 2017 show that 4l pst. the commitments made just went to net growth. This shows that more places are needed. The government will work to create a dementia-friendly society, and we aim to strengthen the efforts of people with dementia. In 2012, a grant scheme was established to facilitate increased daily and activity offers for residents with dementia. The development of adapted and flexible daily activities is one of the main actions of the Demen Plan 2020. Such daily activities provide meaning, mastering and good experiences for the individual, and not least relief for the relatives. In addition, they contribute to the prevention or deferral of institution formation. It is estimated that 9 200 day-time activities are needed for residents with dementia. In the Ministry of Health’s budget proposals from 2012 until now, provision has already been made for over 8,300 places. All municipalities may apply for grant funds for day-to-day activities. The grant shall cover the establishment and operation of day-to-day activities. As several representatives have said, today the state covers about 30 p.m. of the costs involved. Municipalities are free to organise what type of activities they think are appropriate to meet and meet the needs of people with dementia. Municipalities are also relatively free to decide for themselves how they will perform the statutory tasks. Municipalities are familiar with the fact that day-time activities for residents with dementia will become a statutory task from 2020, and I must therefore be able to assume that municipalities are planning to do so. Through the grant scheme, municipalities have been helped to make a daily activity offer before the task is prescribed by law, and some municipalities have chosen to make use of it. To improve the scheme at that time will give an unfortunate signal to the municipalities that have chosen not to make use of the offer earlier – that the longer a waiter, the more subsidies you will have to receive. The government will impose an obligation on municipalities to provide day-to-day activities to residents with dementia. This is, as several have mentioned, a follow-up to the request Decision 494 for 2014-2015. The Government intends to send the proposal for consultation during 2018 and the obligation shall enter into force from 1 January 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1687	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1692	To the Council of State: Welcome to the Stortinget – for the first ordinary debate. I have a question going on the government platform, for as the government council referred to, there's a point in the government platform that we're discussing today going to go to net growth. So in a way, this is a defeat for the government. But my question is: does the Council of State see the decision today, where we say that the proposal should also go to rehabilitation, as a defeat, or does the Council of State see the positive in what the majority in the Grand Duchy decides today? Because I assume that the Council of State also sees the need for municipalities to rehabilitate hospitals and nursing homes, so that we get a better building for the elderly caregivers.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1699	I deal at any time with decisions taken in Stortinget, as they are put up to, and I don't want to say that it is a defeat – it should never be. I think we all – cross-politically – agree that we want to have a targeted and correct offer for our older people. I don't think there's any doubt about that, and it's important to get in place. But now we've had this arrangement for 20 years, the municipalities know it's been there, many have searched, and we still have three more years, so in the municipalities where an application is on the stairs, one will search. And what I'm thinking in this case is that changing the pace of getting more new places will probably help more people to see that OK, we're getting older, we need to have extra new places as well as renovations. As I mentioned in my post, there are still grants in the framework, which do not disappear, which lie there so that one can actually upgrade. However, it is a matter of prioritizing what is most important, first of all, to local politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1704	Welcome to the Grand Summit of the new Minister for the Elderly and Public Health! In order to stay at home as far as possible, we need to develop a good range of day services and accommodation for the elderly. We need new forms of housing, we need new grant schemes. I wonder how the Prime Minister sees fit to expand the lower levels of care to postpone the need for a sick home, and what funding schemes should be put in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1711	I want to make it clear that we want to use the community's money to build up a good public offer. It's in the bottom. The representatives of the Committee know that I intend to present a big message before the summer called ‘Life for life’. It's very much about how we're going to get the older people who currently live in large single homes to think about their age. It also applies to the generation that I belong to – to think through what a person wants the future form of housing to be. How should the municipality and state facilitate this in an interaction? This is where digital welfare systems come in. There will be a much broader approach to volunteering, and not least to the framework that needs to be set by me – from the Ministry’s side – and from the Stortinge side, in order to solve this. In the reform, a number of measures will be seen that will strengthen what the representative is asking for.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1720	After all, it is a pleasure for a Workers' Party heart that the Council of State indicates that there must be good public arrangements and that it must be the support. How is this related to the government platform, where it is requested that municipalities facilitate more free choice of user in both home and home care? How is it possible to combine this with the fact that it is the public offer to be the support beam?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1725	It's the way out in the municipalities that having diversity, being able to have freedom of choice, doesn't necessarily mean that it can't be under the control of the public. But one has to look at where the services are made and what offers the individual can choose from. The statutory duties are under public control, but there may be others who can carry them out without necessarily being employed in a municipality. I think it's important that we're all open to the future's older enough to have other wants – wish for a different offer – than that generation before we have. We have to make that right. Otherwise, someone might choose a siding that might not be right for us to be able to make a good offer. But again, I want to make it clear that we want to use the community's money to build up a good public offer, but with diversity and pleasure, using providers that are not necessarily employed in the municipal sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1736	I would also like to welcome the Minister of the Elderly to Stortinget, and I look forward to many exciting debates. I also have to correct myself, because I said instead that the Workers' Party did not have money for day activities for dementia. They have. There are just so many good proposals from the opposition on Stortinget that it is difficult to keep track of everything! So to double room: When the senior minister joined, SV came up with three challenges, and one of them was that we want with the Progress Party to ensure that no older people should be forced to live in double room against their will. So I wonder if the Council of State has any idea how many older people in Norway are forced to live in double rooms. And question number two: Will the Minister of Senior Citizens want to make sure that this ends, that no one is forced to live in double room against his will? And then I'm not just talking about giving them a discount so they pay less, but that all the older people are allowed to close the door behind them and say that now I'm at home with myself.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1748	Yes, I noticed the three proposals that were in the accession debate that we had here. Now, the representative specifically asks about numbers, and I can promise the representative that he will receive them. He would like to take it as a written question, so that I can get it in the right form, and so that everyone else can read the numbers and have them for the future. But we have to be aware of that 97.6 pst. of all the rooms in the nursing homes today are exclusive. It's not like we have 50/50, but it's almost 98 pst. This has been a desired development, we have agreed on all of this, that no one should have to live involuntarily in double rooms. And that is why we want to reduce the excess – which is also referred to here – further for people who are being doubled against their will. However, it is also important to continue the work of motivating municipalities in order to offer exclusive space. And just to take the next three years: where there are funds and grant schemes, it's really just to move around and get it in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1757	The council said, both in the pulpit and now under the lines, that we have now had an arrangement for 20 years and that must be enough to rehabilitate Norwegian nursing homes. At the same time, we have had an interaction reform that shows that we are getting more and more worse patients into Norwegian nursing homes. I believe that the interaction reform will also be in the future, and we will get worse and worse patients into Norwegian nursing homes. Does the Council of State really think that we are done once and for all to rehabilitate Norwegian hospitals, or does the Council of State think that there must be continuous work, because treatment and care will change in the future for those patients who will have exclusive access to Norwegian hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1765	There are funds within the framework, and the fact that the municipalities have made quite dependent on the fact that the subsidy that is to be received was put in, makes me think that it is important to prioritise directly in the municipalities. I'm not saying they've done it. It shows that there is a need, otherwise one would not have come a long way, as one sees the number of new places that have been created. But I think it is important that one out in the municipalities – I myself have been a municipal politician for many, many years – weighs the use of municipal funds, that they come in the right place. Then one can also work to look at the increase in the framework, and one may not necessarily have to designate the means, but – again – to give local democracy the opportunity to choose the right one. Of course, there will always be a need for adjustments, rehabilitation, etc. I'm perfectly aware that bigger urban centers have a bigger challenge than small centres in this particular area, and I see so absolutely that it can be demanding to get this in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1772	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1779	This is a day of joy – a day of joy for the elderly, but not least a day of joy for all the dismayed rapporteurs, advisers and elected representatives in the municipalities who work hard every single day to make a good offer to the elderly in their municipality and who feel that they are being forced into a government template that is not adapted to local conditions and needs. The working party is pleased that a sentence will now be set for the decision to stop the grant to rehabilitate worn sick homes. Getting back the state grant for rehabilitation and refurbishment of hospitals and nursing homes was one of our most important issues in the election campaign. We did not win the election, but we are very happy that we have now won this case in opposition. This is a matter that has caused strong reactions all over the country. We have been contacted by countless rapporteurs and municipal politicians from all parties who have strongly warned against the adopted cut in investment aid. With the government's proposal, the aid could only be granted if the municipality built corresponding sites from 2021 – new sites. Only in the municipality of Sarpsborg would this have resulted in a loss of 50 million. kr, and if Sarpsborg is representative of the municipalities in Østfold, we are talking about 300-400 million. kr only in one county. When most municipalities in Eastfold are the smallest income municipalities, we realize that this is a lot of money. However, the most important thing is that the offer to older people would actually have been worse. If the support for refurbishment was lost, the consequences for the municipalities would be to remove old and immature nursing homes rather than to clean up. This would mean fewer sick homes for the elderly in the municipality. Alternatively, many people would have to live in nursing homes with high upgrade needs without the local authorities having been able to afford to clean up. For employees, this would have caused more wear due to the lack of the necessary facilities in immature nursing homes. The government's intention was to increase the number of new hospitals, but with the proposed cut in rehabilitation, we actually see here that the consequences would be less. Norwegian municipalities want a strong rise for their nursing homes and for their home-based care. They want simpler care facilities, good use of welfare technologies and better content in care for the elderly. Priority must be given to the quality of life of older people — both at home and those living in nursing homes. It's now secured the bulk of the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1790	This article is reuse from the budget debate before Christmas. This is often a bad sign, but today it is the opposite. We get older in the drama, too, where I come from. In 2040 there are twice as many drammers over 80 years old as today, and the strong growth is already starting in this big period. In 2016, the city government carried out a needs analysis against 2040 as well. covers the need for lucky day care places and the State grant scheme was an important part of the municipality's calculation. Then came the state budget for 2017. It was literally a bit of a blue day. The right-hand party government changed the State grant scheme to new places only. A more realistic decision shall be sought for a long time. Now the government has had one year to correct this miscarriage, but no. The Right Party and the Progressive Party have all over called it an improvement and that the State takes more responsibility. That map doesn't match the terrain. There were strong warnings from research teams, but reality was the best proof. The needs analysis of the municipality's drama is a star example in this way. There are up to 75 locations in each part of the city, based on a thorough review of the need for new sites, for the relocation, rehabilitation and conversion of costly building materials that are not suitable for modern operation, as well as for the replacement of rented premises. A conservative estimate shows that the Drammen, with the restriction of the grant scheme by the Right and the Advance Party, risked losing 477 places. An equally conservative estimate, based on all of these being nursing homes, shows over 770 million lost dollars. Should everyone be in sick homes, we're approaching the billionth. The reality lies somewhere in between. There would be dramatic consequences both for elderly care and for other important services. Had it only been the Drammen, but a quick round to other municipalities nearby showed that there were more. Modum has built 72 new places and has to rehabilitate 24. In Kongsberg, it is likely that 68 places will be added when the new ones are finished. Eels shall replace or rehabilitate 16 dwellings and 31 hospitals. Cradle herd must build new and rehabilitate for 100 million. kr. Stepping down subsidies in the years to come is a very bad policy, said the rapporteur in Krödsherad. The council had been tricked into listening to Norwegian municipalities, who know where the shoe is pressing. When she doesn't do it and the Right, the Advance Party and the Left don't do it, it's good for the elderly also in my home country, Buskerud, that the big crowd now puts their feet down.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1803	I need a little post. First, I would like to say a thousand thanks to those who have contributed to the plurality of this matter. It was said that it was the day of the plurality – at least there are some pluralities we get – and it is a very important decision that is now being taken for Norwegian elderly care, both in hospitals and when it applies to day-to-day care, but also for having more day-to-day activities. I agree with those who say that this is a problem across the country. Many municipalities were extremely happy when they found out about this setting, and I know there are representatives who have been invited to the cake, etc. So there's a rare amount of enthusiasm for what the plural now does. A small comment to the representative Nicholas Wilkinson, who said from the spokesperson that SV stated this in the state budget: what SV suggested in the state budget was to impose sanctions on municipalities that force the elderly in the hospital to live on double room against their will. It's a slightly different word than leading the way forward to rehabilitating. So yes, we weren't for it in the state budget, but it's very good that we get multiples, with SV, for this now. The second thing that was said is that the Center Party didn't have money in the state budget to build more day-to-day activities. No, that's quite right. We allow money to increase the rate, because it's pointless to give more money in the state budget to build more day-to-day activities when the problem was that the municipalities didn't spend the money that was already allowed. In 2016, this spot was 71 million. SEK 45 million. kr were unused funds. It showed the need to increase the rate of return.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1814	The council said in its statement that the government is concerned that several lucky days' care places are to be built, and that the municipalities have had more than enough time to arrange it through different schemes that have been in the last 20 years. However, when several of the municipalities warn of the change to which the government provided, and as the majority of the population say that one does not accept, it indicates that the municipalities, those who are actually going to provide the services to the elderly out there, have perceived that the scheme has been too bad. The government seems to believe that efforts should be directed mainly at several places. This can be read from the letters of the Council of State, which were sent to the Committee in connection with the examination of this matter. It's not necessarily in line with the signals given earlier, saying that you wanted more people to live at home, just to reduce the need for places, a need that is going to get bigger anyway, because we know that we're getting older. When it is claimed that this should be possible to achieve within the framework of the free incomes of the municipalities, there is a truth of modification, when it is seen that more and more municipalities are struggling to achieve the objective set by this room, namely that as much as possible should be able to live at home, that as much as possible should not have to share space and be able to have access to exclusive spaces, and not least that more should be offered day-to-day activities. Then it turns out that the municipal authorities have not taken advantage of the possibilities given to have a number of day seats, precisely because the municipalities have perceived that the scheme has been too poor. This was a review tone last year, when I traveled through the municipalities in Northern Ireland: the scheme is too bad. It has to be changed if we are to be able to meet the needs that we see in the future. It is written in the file that there has been enough time left to renew and renovate sites built around 1997. At the same time, this hall has been concerned that we are going to use the buildings that have been built. When the council then writes that you should have time to replace the buildings that are relatively new, I think we must encourage you to use the buildings that you have. Then it's quite appropriate that this hall adds that you can get a subsidy to renovate those buildings that are not functional and appropriate anymore, but that are really relatively new constructions. This is a lot of money. The aftermath is estimated at about 37 billion. NOK, and it was just to be lacking that this room did not allow you to contribute in the large fissure layer it is to give our elderly a better and more dignified care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1829	Sometimes in debates, facts and honesty can be all right. Then it's okay to go back and see what the parties that now make up the majority have said, and what are the consequences of it. In the 2018 alternative state budgets of the opposition parties, there is no extra money for construction and for new investment grants, which means that the government framework is firm. The consequence of what the opposition is now doing is that in the future, we will have fewer hospitals because you will not be able to build enough new hospitals. So it was very special to hear the representative Wilkinson say that he had granted money in the state budget for day-to-day activities. But that's not right. He had granted 36 million. kr for investment grants, but nothing to increase the daily activity grant from 30 pst. to 50 pst. The centre party and the Workers' Party had some more money. But when you have 280 million. So I'm going to add 20 pst, I'm going to add 56 million. kr. Then the calculations are not consistent with the lots that now want to increase the grant. So they don't have the money to do it. Then it becomes a little bit like it is with sand: it's very nice to write it in sand, but then it blows away, and then it's gone. So I feel like we're having a little bit of a lukewarm debate here, where someone later like they want more in the care of the elderly. Wilkinson should travel to his own party traps in Haugesund and say that they can stop having people in double rooms. They have to make sure they get hospitalized places. I've been there and I've been told how it is there. This government is concerned that we're going to build more places. It's actually about maintaining the building mass you already have. To Lise Christoffersen, who from this pulpit almost sounds like there's no possibility of rehabilitating nursing homes and nursing homes now: there's money in there to also rehabilitate. It's not right, what you're trying to do is, now you can't rehabilitate hospitals and nursing homes anymore, and you just have to build new ones. At least I think it is good that Lise Christoffersen, from the Workers' Party, says that in 2040 there are twice as many older people. Then we need to build more new hospitals, and that's why we've tripled the appropriations this four-year period compared to what the red-green managed in their last four years. There's not much credibility in saying that you're going to do something suddenly, when you were able to deliver a third over the last four years you've been running. This government is committed to building hospitals and nursing homes, for the elderly who need it in the future will have a worthy and secure old age and care for the elderly, with good new health homes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1842	The representative Hoksrud asked for some factuality and asked for more money from the red-green parties for investment grants. Then it is worth noting that the investment grant should not be changed until 2019, so there was still money for rehabilitation in this budget, so there was no money missing from the red-green ones. So this was just wrong. So to the representative Toppe, who said that the Central Party voted against having sanctions against the municipalities that force older people to live in double rooms against their will. That's right, the Center Party voted, and so did the right-hand side and all the other parties. However, as the representative of the SV, who was the only party that proposed this, I believe that we need to have a debate in this Chamber on what we should accept that municipalities should save money on. Should we accept that municipalities that want to save money in their budgets should force adult people to live in double rooms with strangers against their will? I don't think it's an acceptable way to save money in public budgets – there will be limits to what we allow in public Norway when people are going to have their welfare. But then demand the Progress Party something important. They say there's more money needed. All red-green parties proposed more money to care for the elderly than the government managed to do in its government budget. But that's right: even more money is needed, and if the Progress Party and the new Minister of Older People want to cooperate with SV, we will secure a majority of too much money for investment in nursing homes and day-care centres. If there's a majority in the Storting that's missing, we're open with our hands and ready to increase those budgets. As long as we stop spending money on tax cuts on the richest, we have more than enough money to spend on the elderly in Norway instead.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1851	The representative Kjersti Toppe has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1856	To the representative of Hoksrud, who is trying to argue that we don't have the money to carry out: then I mean this debate has come to the farthest point. We propose entirely concrete, factual proposals that have been strongly wanted out in Kommune-Noreg, which are not unprofessional, but are justified proposals, and for which we have money, of course. We have also shown that in our alternative budgets. The representative Wilkinson said what to say when it comes to investment. When it comes to daytime activities, we've allowed money in our alternative budget, depending on what the government itself answers. We can't follow up in a better way. There is a great need for rehabilitation, we have a Minister of Older People, and this decision today helps the Minister of Older People to get money to secure good care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1865	I think I need to help the representative, Bård Hoksrud, get a new plane ticket to Haugesund, because there they've just moved patients into one's room after rehabilitating quite a number of hospitals. They had to move patients to double rooms during the rehabilitation period in order to carry out the rehabilitation. Under the governance that had been before, one had worn down so many rooms that one needed great investment and a long time to manage to rehabilitate. That's what we're talking about in this room today, that's to rehabilitate and build new ones as needed. The second thing I want to say is about day care. There was a lot of money left for the day, and we know that many of the money was not spent because the operating pressure on the municipalities was so high that they did not want to use them. That's why we're changing the percentage to get more people to spend the money that's in the budget, which we've been able to adopt ourselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1873	I have to say I am responding to the representative Hoksrud's form in the last post, which calls for facts-based statements, and it calls for honesty, and one of them the representative referred to as non-fact based, and probably not quite honest, was signed. I just want to make it clear that I never said that it was not possible to get support for rehabilitation now. I referred to a plan for the municipality of Drammen that runs until 2040. There is a doubling of the number of people over 80 in the Drammen in that period, and then a jam needs to build new places, as Bård Hoksrud said – and actually raised itself to have better care for the needs of the elderly care in the Drammen than the Drammen City Board has itself. It's not like the municipality of Drammen only needs new places, but they need them too. That's what I said in my article. So one says that one in 2040 is going to have 75 places in each part of the city. Some of them are new, some of them are rehabilitated, some are a result of total replacement, and some are wound up in inappropriate, rented premises. 477 of the 75 places in all parts of the city in 2040 are places that would have risked losing the grant if the Storting had not now intervened and put down the foot. That's Drammen Municipality's own plan. It was unanimously adopted in the Drammen City Board in 2016, and I trust that Drammen City Board will build its future plans for the care of the elderly on both facts and honesty.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1884	My party colleague, the representative Christoffersen, has been involved in some of the central issues here. The municipalities plan long-term, yes, they plan very long-term. They plan longer than for both the next municipal elections and the next big shots. This is not really a debate on how big the pot is – the representative Hoksrud is right that it was equal to the government of these parties – it is about how to set up the grant in order to make it work as best as possible. As the results are now, it's actually 58 pst. which yields net growth, while 42 pst. used for upgrading. I think it's a pretty good description that this grant works well – that we both get new places and at the same time ensure that we don't get an a-layer and a b-layer within the care of the elderly. That means that there are not only people who will be allowed to live in new, modern, upgraded nursing homes, while others will have to live in worn-out, inappropriate living rooms. I think it is important that the Storting plays with the municipalities. Listen to what KS has said, listen to what the Right Party and the Progressive Party's own municipal politicians have said! This is a grant that works for the municipalities, and it is important both for municipalities that experience great growth, like Ski Municipality, from which I come, and for municipalities that experience relocation. In a municipality of growth, we have to build kindergartens and schools because there are many families of children moving in. Then there is a comeback with a grant that ensures that we can at the same time give priority to care for the elderly. In a municipality with a large relocation, it may be that the number of older people is growing much more strongly than the number of families with children, and then it is particularly important for the municipality to be able to prioritise the upgrading of nursing homes. They may not need so many new places, but they need good places for the elderly they have in their municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1895	I'm recording that the last speaker says about this with places that you want people to be able to live in something new and modern, and that everyone should have the same. But then you also have to be honest that the consequences – if that’s what you’re saying now – are going to be fewer places. We also know that there's going to be a huge increase in the number that's going to need spaces in the future. That means there's a part that's actually not going to get a place, because the municipality won't be able to do it, especially when it's the same framework that's at the root of it. I think you have to be honest when it comes to discussing the frameworks that lie there. When you look at the history and the facts, it is that in four years the Red-Green government was able to grant one third of the Right and Advance Party, along with the Cooperation Parties, in the last four years. In addition, we have increased the grant by about 15 pst., which means that the municipalities have come out even better after we took over. As a result, they are building up several new hospitals and nursing homes, and they are rehabilitating nursing homes and nursing homes. As the representative now confirmed, yes, it will also be rehabilitated. It's also going to be in the next few years. But we want to be clear that we want to get more places. We're going to have new, modern and great places. Then there's still the opportunity to rehabilitate – and if it turns out, you might have to come back and have a discussion. For me, it's important to say clearly that we know there's going to be more people who are going to need care in the future, and who need a place. I have great faith in the municipalities regarding the signals they send. But I think it has to be clear that the consequence of that representative, from the Workers' Party, was up and said, is that it's getting fewer. Then it is good – to the representative of Bollestad – that the elderly in Haugesund have been moved in, but it was a heavenly life. It was the red-green ones who made sure they weren't allowed to live there anymore, because they didn't have room, and then they had to stay in double rooms. I don't think it's worth it, and that's why we've made sure that it goes beyond it gets a compensation. But I agree that it may well be that we should punish the municipalities even more if you put people in double rooms. I'm sure I'm going to follow up with the Minister of the Elderly, because I don't think it's worth living in double rooms and rooms that aren't adapted to be double rooms. I'm happy to have that debate, but it's a completely different discussion than the one we've had now. It's been a fun and exciting debate, and it's an important debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1906	One of the most interesting points in this debate is that the parties that normally hold the freedom of choice tab high are going to reduce the freedom of choice of the individual municipality, no matter what the need in that municipality is, even if it were to mean that there would be fewer sick homes of it, because worn spaces would have to be laid down. We all know that it's cheaper to clean up than to build a new one, but the government here says that if you haven't cleaned up in 20 years, you can forget it. And that's kind of strange, all the time we know that there's new needs coming up. Current needs arise as a result of well-being technologies and needs resulting from the conversion of double rooms to exclusive spaces. At all, the need for refurbishment is quite great. We all know that it's expensive to be poor. In particular, low income municipalities will have difficulties in making equal use of investment grants for new buildings. In the debate on the Declaration of Accession to the Government, the Elder Minister said that her experience is that care for the elderly is a priority in the municipalities. My experience is that it depends on what kind of economy the municipalities have. The municipalities offer the best they can, but you live in a poor municipality, you get a poorer welfare offer. That's the main reason for the difference between the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1913	The representative, Tuva Moflag, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1918	The representative Hoksrud is happy to tell us other representatives what the reality is, so here's one in return. The reality is that the Right Party and the Advance Party will not be involved in the effort to ensure that people can live at home as far as possible. When you do not vote for the grant to day-time activities places for people with dementia to increase from 30 pst. To 50 pst., it is not taken into account that the number of elderly people will increase sharply in the coming years, and that we need to expand the range of services that are further down the care ladder. Hospitals are expensive, but those who need it will really get it. But we have to postpone the need for hospitalization, and then maybe grants to daytime activities are one of the most accurate things we can do.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1923	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox Case No. 8-11 are interpellations, and the President, by reference to Rule 68 of the Rules of Procedure, will propose to derogate from the general procedure for interpelling debates by discussing them together. The four interpellations concern the same theme and are addressed to four government councils. No objection has been raised, and it is deemed to have been adopted. The President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 40 minutes, and that speaking time be allocated as follows: first, the four interpellants are given up to 8 minutes each, then the four councils are given up to 8 minutes each, and then open up for up to 15 posts of 5 minutes from other representatives. Finally, the four inter-pellants and the four national councils are given one post each of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1982	The first interpellant is the representative of Geir Jørgen Bekkevold.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e1987	As the children's representative in the Christian People's Party here at Stortinget, it is my special task as a politician to wear the babysitters. Through these glasses I look very nice here to the country, but there are also things that make me very worried. I get worried when I hear that the number of assaults against children in Eastern police districts increased by over 75 pst. in just one year. These figures are alarmingly high, and the same trend is unfortunately seen all over the country. Of course, this is about several things, including: increased awareness, which means that several cases are discovered and reported, which is of course a good thing. But it's also about having access to today's technology that makes it possible to perpetuate child abuse in a way and to an extent that has never been the case before. The term grooming is of more recent date, but unfortunately the content is not new. We know that when adults work up their trust in children to exploit this trust and commit an assault, something breaks in this child, and it can have lifelong consequences. We have to take this very seriously. We're not allowed to ignore it. The responsibility is ours, and we must dare to see it to believe it. For the Christian People's Party, the fight for a safe childhood has long been of the highest priority. Through our alternative budgets and budgetary negotiations, the Christian People's Party has strengthened its efforts in this area. In the children's and family budget, we received a budget of 10 million in the autumn. kr extra to Alternative to Violence, 20 mill. kr extra for family protection, 12.5 million. Extra for the Church's Family Protection and 25 million. kr more for the protection of children. But this is not enough at all. As a department responsible for coordinating the important work to combat violence and abuse against children and young people, we expect the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality and the new Council of State to give priority to this task in the future, both in the budgets and in the programmes. In the escalation plan for which a total increase voted in 2015, and which was dealt with in the form of a proposition at the Spring 2017 Stortinget, the Christian People's Party fought through a series of strengthening measures in the field of health, family, school and justice. It is now up to the Council of State of Hofstad to coordinate the measures and to ensure that they are implemented. We know that there are many children around our country who need this help now. That's why it's urgent. They're totally dependent on us acting, so they can get the help that can make life maybe not be completely ruined. Last week I received a reply from the Council of State to a written question on ‘Head of the preparation of a plan for crisis management. Suspicion of employee sexual abuse against children’. This has not been revised since it was drawn up by the Councils of State of Laila Davay and Kristin Clemet in 2002. The government's plan of escalation specifically mentions that this should be revised, but the reply I received last week says that the responsibility had first been added to the Ministry of Knowledge. They spent one year deciding to send the task over to the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality. So now – one year later – the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality has given Bufdir this task. This seems like a little detail, but we're getting worry messages from parents who have three-year-olds who tell us about gross abuse. And when parents report to kindergarten, they feel that there are no procedures for handling the alerts. Guides, routines and better security are needed, and it is urgent. Metoo has been a shocking campaign that has hit all industries, communities and political parties. It is high time these voices were heard, and that real changes followed in the wake of these stories. But the voices that are still not heard are children’s. The children who are subjected to domestic violence, who are exposed to net abuse or abuse in kindergarten or at school – who is going to launch a hashtag campaign for them? Who will cry out for their right to a safe childhood? Our task here at Stortinget is not to start campaigns in social media, but to make sure that the law and institutions are equipped to protect those of us who need it the most. That is why the Christian People's Party has great expectations for the child protection reform that it is now working on. We will continue to raise family protection in our budgets. We are now also dealing with issues in the Committee that will help to strengthen the legal protection of children who are victims of abuse, and the government has announced that this will be a focus area in the future. My question to the Council of State Hofstad Greece is therefore of a general nature. How will she coordinate the government's efforts in the fight against violence and child abuse and ensure that action is not postponed or flaunted between the ministries, but instead give top priority and is effectively implemented in the future for the sake of children?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e2014	The next interpellant is the representative of Hans Fredrik Groevan.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e2019	Over the last few years, we have seen an increase in violence and abuse against children in Norway, and the police report large numbers of darkness. Also in kindergarten and school, we have increasingly seen the detection of abuses against children. The magazine Education Mapped in its January issue this year matters in kindergarten and school in the previous year. During the last year, at least 28 persons employed in kindergarten and school were sighted, accused or convicted in criminal proceedings. There are 28 cases, but in several cases there are several children who experience terrible things – and that in one of the places where they are to be safest. Children and young people spend many hours each day in kindergarten and school, and most people – and I would like to stress this – meet competent and caring adults, who become important people in their lives. It is important that we continue to show confidence in men and women who choose these important professions. At the same time, we must dare to believe that what we are now exposed is also happening in our kindergartens and schools. We have to do what we can to prevent that from happening. We have to make our kindergarten teachers and teachers in school competent to prevent and detect abuse. We have to make them conscious of their responsibilities, and make them confident about what they're going to do, when something suspicious happens. This is also important for those children who experience violence and abuse in the world. A review by Kripos shows that in one of five judges, the child has been subjected to abuse for more than three years. Many of these children have also gone to kindergarten before school. In 2015, the Christian People's Party promoted a proposal for a separate escalation plan against violence and abuse against children. For children, it is essential that we, as politicians, take this seriously and take action in all areas where violence and abuse can be prevented. The action plan was given a majority, and in the spring of 2017, Stortinget adopted a plan of concrete measures to prevent and detect violence and abuse. Some of these proposals directly affect kindergarten and school. Others will have more indirect consistency for the institutions for which the Minister of Knowledge is responsible. At the same time, I would like to point out that although the plan contains many good measures, this work is not finished. It will be important that we, as politicians, have a continuous follow-up work to ensure that all children in Norway are safe. This is not least the case in kindergarten and school, where public responsibility lies. Int. 247 S for 2016-2017 asks the Government to ensure that the theme related to body and borders is part of the training in kindergarten, primary and secondary education to prevent sexual abuse. I am pleased that the government has included this in the framework plan for kindergartens, but I am anxious to see what this will look like in the current trade renewal. It's important to make sure that, as part of this, the adults who are going to talk to the children about this, how to do this in a good way. Prevention and detection of violence and abuse must be part of the education of all professionals in which to work with children, so that you know what to look for, and how to deal with it when you suspect something. As part of this, it is important to know how other occupational groups are working on this already in education, such as: child protection and police. This is also suggested in the escalation plan, which I hope the Council of State can say something about how to follow up. In the magazine Education we can also read an interview with researcher Anne Liv Kaarstad Lie, who asks for guidance on behaviour and relationships between students and teachers. This will help colleagues who suspect that something is wrong between a colleague and a student. The researcher points out that overgrowth in school and kindergarten is often either a well-respected colleague or a temporary worker, who moves a lot around. In particular, in the first case, the researcher believes that a supervisor will be helpful in talking about and dealing with abnormal behavior or relationship between teacher and child. She also calls for an update of the national guidelines on what school leaders should do when abuse is detected. Such a guide was created in 2002, but it is not used much. This means that many principals do not handle the matter well enough from the start. Violence and abuse against children, we all agree not to happen. We have a common responsibility to prevent this. My question to the Council of State today is therefore: What will he do to follow the plan of escalation against violence and abuse, as the Stortinget has decided, and what will he do to ensure that we prevent and detect abuses that occur in kindergarten and school, to a greater extent than we do today?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e2042	Then it's the next interpellant – Jorunn Gleditsch Lossius.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e2047	Our children are our most important responsibility, and therefore we have to do everything we can to give them a safe upbringing, whether they're in kindergarten, at school, on the Internet or in their own home. And if we're going to make it, we need to cooperate across sectors, and we need to strengthen capacity and knowledge. A good childhood lasts life. But unfortunately, it is also that a bad childhood can last for generations. We politicians have a special responsibility to facilitate the growth of children and young people they deserve. And I therefore look forward to hearing how far the various state councils have come within their constitutional responsibility to follow up the Plan of Ascension against violence and abuse against children, which was adopted by the Stortinge last spring. Violence and child abuse are a serious social problem. A few weeks ago, we were able to read in the A magazine about 89 Norwegian net offenders – an article in which sexual abuse against children is explicitly described. The articles tell us that the perpetrators are mainly men, most of them have a job, half of them are under 40 years old, and about two thirds of them are unknown to the police. Reading is a very strong diet. But it gives us a responsibility as politicians. We need to do more to prevent, detect and combat these cruel acts. On 23 January, the police director presented a report with statistics on reported crime in 2017. Statistics show that crime goes down for five consecutive years. From 2013 to 2017, it has fallen by a total of 18 pst. That's good. But for sexual offences, the situation is quite different. Here, the reviews have increased dramatically. From 2013 to 2017, they increased by a total of 65.5 pst. Violence and abuse against children are the most increasing. From 2013 to 2017, sexual abuse and acts against children under the age of 16 increased by 182.3 pst. It is the so-called Internet-related abuses that are the cause of the large increase. It is in many ways good that reports related to violence and child abuse are increasing, because it helps bring the cruel acts to light, and we are given the opportunity to help those who need it. But even though the number of reviews is increasing, the numbers of darkness are still large. It is of little help to the individual who is subjected to abuse that several notifying parties do not expand their capacities in the auxiliary, police and health and care sectors. For the Christian People's Party, this has been a priority task in recent years. Through our alternative budgets, we have raised violence against children as one of the most important initiatives, and we have had a good impact on the budgetary agreements we have had with the government parties in recent years. Among other things, we have in the justice sector, the police and Kripos, doubled the funds for the State Children’s House, put in place a new children’s home and a new pilot in Sogn and Fjordane, and we have secured funds for an awareness campaign against net crime. These are good measures, but in order to really lift the field and ensure a holistic and long-term approach, we in 2015 promoted proposals for a stepping-up plan against violence and abuse against children. The plan was to be drawn up on the basis of a model from the Roadmap for Mental Health, which lasted from 1999 to 2008. The reason for this was that the evaluation showed very good results, including: because it gave concrete commitments on earmarked funds. A total increase voted in favour of a stepping-up plan against violence and abuse against children in 2015. In spring 2017, when the Stortinget dealt with the proposition with which the government came back to Stortinget, the Christian People's Party again received further measures to combat violence and abuse against children. The rest of the opposition chose to vote against all the proposals and to return the proposition. The background was that they thought the government's work had not been good enough. It should be mentioned that the Christian People's Party was also not satisfied with the proposition made by the government. But instead of sending it back, we worked to strengthen the plan further, because we thought it was urgent to get it in place. In our treatment, a number of proposals were made in the health, family, school and justice fields. I look forward to the response of the Councils to what status is in these areas. We had an impact on our own strategy to prevent and combat Internet-related abuse, which ensures increased competence and better tools in the police, a review of police certification legislation, and that the use of reverse violence alarm is greatly expanded. In addition, we were given the opportunity to report on all measures adopted in the Plan of Action against violence and abuse on the basis of the Roadmap for Mental Health, which will serve as a basis for assessing the economic needs of combating violence and abuse during the period of the plan. We were also given the impression that the government in the 2018 draft government budget would make proposals on financial commitments and designation for the planning period related to the measures in the Plan of Action against violence and abuse. They did not do so for 2018, which may be understandable given that the decision was taken not so long before the 2018 budget was submitted, but until 2019 the government has a good time. So here we expect the decision to be followed up in a proper way. It has now been a long time since the decisions were taken in Stortinget, and it is time to hear what the status is. Finally, my question is: how will the Minister of Justice follow up the decisions of the escalation plan and ensure that we are able to prevent, detect and investigate much more issues related to violence and child abuse?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e2072	The next and last interpellant is Olaug V. Bollestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e2077	I met a little boy who said: "I always worry until my father comes home, I can hear the doorbell – he didn't use the word, he said the handle – or on the steps in the stairs how my father is today." Violence in close relationships is a major social problem. It's serious, and it's gross crime. Our responsibility is to prevent and prevent that from happening. We have to uncover. We need to see, and we need to help the individual victims who are subjected to violence and abuse, and we also need to help and treat the human being who has committed an assault. Violence and abuse cost individuals life and health, not just childhood, but a whole life. It costs society billions a year. So we have to turn our thinking around, because it's expensive not to do anything. We need to take action on prevention, and the health sector needs to take a significant responsibility for detecting violence and abuse and ensuring that victims are cared for. Both the health centre, the midwife, the nurse, the dentist and other professionals in primary health care must and must have knowledge to protect vulnerable and vulnerable young people and adults. I am absolutely sure that more cooperation between kindergarten, child protection, school, health care and police is crucial if we are to manage to help the victims of violence and abuse and prevent repetition. In the process of the escalation plan, it was important for the Christian People's Party to ensure this broad approach. We do not solve the challenges of one and only strengthening the police. We have to have a cross-sectoral escalation in several areas, and now, when I talk, it's about health. It is about strengthening prevention, ensuring better skills for all those working with young people, so that they can better understand and know that what they see is right, and not just see – one must also do something. It's about more health sisters. This is about offering to the victims, and it is not least about offering to the attackers. It will be interesting to listen to both the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Family Affairs and the Council of Knowledge, but also the Council of Health Ministers, to hear what he intends to do in this area that is so important to the young and the adults we are talking about here. As pointed out earlier today, the Christian People's Party has promised in its alternative budget that preventing violence against children is one of the most important bets for the Christian People's Party. If we don't get to do anything else, we want it to come after us: there were people who said we had to do something for these kids that no one else sees. We have been well-informed in last year's budgetary agreements with the government parties. Among other things, we have secure funds, as I have said, for health sisters. It is very important to lift the field, but the most important thing is to ensure a holistic and long-term approach, which we promoted through the action plan that a total increase was behind in 2017. When Stortinget got the case back again, the Christian People's Party did not think it was good enough, all that was there, but we chose to go in and do the plan better than it was. It wasn't all in the proposition that the Christian People's Party thought was good enough. The opposition chose to send it back, but then I think that our kids don't have time to wait for us to spend more time ordering, investigating, evaluating and promoting new proposals – and discussing to then adopt, to re-examine. Our kids are living now, and they need us to act now. They need us to see, believe and do — both in the health centre, in kindergarten, in school and in leisure — different occupational groups with different knowledge to care for these kids. So it's done a lot on the law side to be able to have action rooms in this area, and that's good. The Christian People's Party is concerned that we need to ensure that the law is correct, so that we can achieve the goals we set ourselves. Many decisions have been made in this room, and I want to mention two. There were two decisions taken in the budget, together with the other parties. One was that the Stortinget asked the Government to ‘ensure that it is reported in the annual budget proposals during the period of the plan on the achievement of the target of all measures adopted in the plan of action against violence and abuse’. We've also said that we want social pediatricians in all children's wards, and that anyone in children's homes should have medical examinations. This is important for the young, that they are kept where they are. It has now been a long time since all the decisions were taken in this house. It's time, I think, to hear what the status is now. What matters to the health part of this work is important to me. The Health Minister has shown his great commitment to vulnerable young people, and we agree that we have had some decisions in place, but nevertheless we are not on target. My question to the Council of State is: How will the Council of State proceed to follow up the leadership and decisions of the escalation plans made in this Chamber, in order to move forward – not for our part, but for the young people we are talking about here?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e2094	The size of the population is now in response to the interpellations of the state councils. First, it is the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, Linda C. Hofstad Helleland.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e2100	I want to start by giving tribute to the Christian People's Party for once again putting the children on the agenda – the very most vulnerable of us. And thank you to the representative Becquerad for the Christian People's Party being alert and impatient on behalf of the children. I'm glad that the Christian People's Party is a constructive partner and an important driver and is thus involved in making a difference for the children affected. Then I am very happy that we have this escalation plan in place, which now makes it possible to ensure good political follow-up, and also that the work necessary to succeed is just going across several sectors and is going on. Violence and abuse affecting children and young people are a serious social problem. I can assure Stortinget that as coordinating minister in this field I will continue the work that my predecessors started, and give priority to further work. This is a responsibility that I take most seriously, and we, the government councils responsible for implementation, will work systematically for this. We are concerned that we have good cooperation between kindergartens, schools, child protection, health care and the police, so that we can work better together. I would like to stress that there are no quick solutions here, and even if we are doing well, we are also concerned that we should evaluate the measures that are being taken. The important thing is that we do the right things, that as many children as possible get help, and that we prevent violence and abuse against children. We are e.g. stepping up the investigation of violence and abuse against children and increasing the capacity and competence of children’s homes. We are expanding and improving treatment provision. We have been working on a comprehensive competence strategy for the whole field of violence, and we are doing a good job on a strategy against cyber-attacks. There is no doubt that cross-sectoral efforts are necessary, while at the same time we need to gather up-to-date knowledge and continue the good cooperation we have internationally. Tomorrow I will travel to Stockholm and meet my colleagues and some of the most important competences in the field to work for even better cooperation to ensure the UN's sustainability goal of ‘stop abuse, exploitation, trafficking in human beings and all forms of violence and torture of children’. As the representative Bekkewold mentions, we see that the number of reports related to violence and abuse against children is increasing. It's worrying. I am particularly concerned about the extent of online violence. The press has mentioned very bad things, from sharing intimate pictures to gross assaults. There are many children and young people around the country who are affected. Earlier today I had a visit from Facebook and the Director of Safe Internet Use there. There we got a lot of useful insights into how we can help, spread knowledge and give parents and those who work with children, skills on how children should be safe online users. This is just an example of how we have to work from several teams in order to counteract not least online abuse. The plan adopted contains 124 measures that are now under way. We're up in a total bet of about 808 million. kr for 2018. Five departments are involved in the work, with respective directorates. There's a whole bet that's now in progress. Family protection has been given a historic boost. We have made systematic efforts to strengthen the competence and capacity of family protection. For example, Alternatives to Violence have been given an increase in their state funding, and I would like to highlight in particular the training programme SNAKKE. In this programme, the most modern technology has been used to develop an interactive game in which children can be more able to talk to them about the difficult issues. During the spring, the government will present the first national parental support strategy. The strategy aims to make parents safer and better caregivers for their children. This will be an important milestone in strengthening early intervention and prevention of violence, carelessness and abuse. I want to assure the representative, Mr Bekkewold, and the other representatives of the Christian People's Party that I, together with my colleagues, will have a high level of attention on this issue and the major challenges ahead of us in the future. As I said, we need to evaluate the escalation plan, while at the same time implementing the measures, to see that the funds are used correctly. I would also like to bring together my fellow state councillors responsible for the measures in the plan throughout the year to ensure that we are systematically working against violence and abuse against children at all stages, that this work has full strength – from all the preventive work we can do, to discover these abuses and to help those who are at risk. I can also assure the representative, Mr Becquerad, that I am going to contribute to the fact that there is no responsibility here that is to be blamed between departments, as the representative said, but that, as the coordinating minister, I will follow up and ensure that we follow up those measures in the escalation plan, and that the work continues with full strength in the future. Then again I would like to thank the Christian People's Party for putting this issue on the agenda in Stortinget. We owe that to those kids. The fact that these children also receive a voice and are heard is important, and I look forward to a good debate further.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e2136	The next Council of State to respond is the Minister of Knowledge and Integration, Jan Tore Sanner.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e2141	One of society’s most important tasks is to protect young people from violence and sexual abuse. I am pleased that the Storting and the government are united about the important work that is now being done through the escalation plan. Strengthening the competence for violence and abuse among staff in kindergartens and schools is one of the most important measures in the escalation plan, and a lot is being done here in many arenas. Higher education relevant to the work of children and young people, such as teacher training and health and social education, has been given increased demands on what students should learn about violence and abuse and how this should be handled. From the autumn of 2016 this applies to all teacher training, including kindergarten teacher training, and from 2017 it also applies to the new five-year education for primary school teachers. In addition, education and training in health and social sciences has been given a common framework, including knowledge of violence and abuse. On the basis of a request decision from the treatment of the escalation plan, the government has helped to disseminate good practices for interoperability between relevant basic training courses such as health and social sciences, police and pedagogics. A website will be completed on 1 March this year. A new framework plan for kindergarten came into force on 1 August 2017 and provides clearer leadership for the business. The plan emphasises that, in addition to the obligation to provide information on the protection of children, staff shall have a conscious relationship with the fact that children may be subject to care failure, violence and sexual assault, and know how this can be prevented and detected. Work against violence and abuse is also underlined in the revised competence strategy for kindergarten, which was presented in autumn 2017. The nursery owners have thus been clearly informed of the responsibility they have to ensure that the staff have good competence, and we know that a lot of local work is being done in this field. The framework plan has also become quite clear that kindergarten should help children develop a conscious relationship with the right to control their own bodies and respect for the borders of others. This provides a good basis for the specific work to be done in the individual nursery. It also helps to respond to a request decision taken by the Stortinget in the examination of the escalation plan. Digital guidance material is useful for the local competence work done in each municipality or in each kindergarten or school. Measures in the escalation plan include digital information and network resources under development. This includes own web courses, which will be available for kindergartens and schools. Employees in kindergartens and schools are also in the target of a new national training programme for employees in municipalities in talking to children and young people about violence and abuse. The pedagogical norm of pedagogical facilities will be strengthened from 1 August 2018 and will ensure a higher level of pedagogical skills, which will, in general, increase the competence of the whole human resource group and improve the follow-up to the responsibilities of the framework plan. A request decision taken in the examination of the escalation plan states that the forthcoming initial training renewal must ensure that body and border-related themes are included. This is followed up in the multidisciplinary theme of lifelong learning and public health. Lifelong learning and public health as a multidisciplinary theme are about being able to understand and influence factors that are important for mastering your own life. The multidisciplinary theme shall provide students with competence to promote good physical and mental health and shall cover areas such as sexuality and sex, drugs, value choices, interpersonal relations and the ability to set borders and respect the borders of others. Bullying comes, for example: expressed through violence and harassment. The main effort against bullying continues with full strength. The appropriation for 2018 is 80 million. kr. The municipalities with the heaviest bullying challenges are given priority and receive, among other things: offer of external guides, and special support is provided. Other municipalities are offered joint collections and support for local development work, including: via local resource persons or online courses. The new bullying law is quite clear that we have zero tolerance against bullying. No one shall turn away, and it shall be reported to the State, which will follow if the municipality or school does not itself address the challenges. Partnerships against bullying oblige the parties to take concrete action, both locally and at national level, and contribute to increased competence for both owners and employees in the kindergarten and school sectors.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e2160	Violence and assault are among the major crime problems of our time, which we must take very seriously. It will be the most important area for me to raise further. That is why I am pleased that the Christian People's Party and the representative, Gleditsch Lossius, are involved in putting this topic on the agenda. The number of reported cases of family abuse, child abuse and rape has increased considerably in recent years. Contrary to an increase in reviews of other crime, this is a development we want to welcome. With the support of research, we assume that the increase is due to more attention and greater transparency on violence and abuse in the general population, in combination with better police and auxiliaries skills. Police play an important role in preventing children from being subjected to violence and abuse. We see that crime goes from street to data. One of the most important things about the near-police reform is to ensure that we have policemen, computer technicians and others together, so that they can detect, investigate and take those who commit net acts and exploit others via networks. We have seen several cases involving many criminals across the country who have committed both assaults in Norway and ordered assaults abroad, and who possess material from all over the world. Then we need the best professional environments in the fight against the invaders. Another important measure is an annual mandatory training for all investigators and prosecution lawyers and systems for evaluations and feedback in order to update the new methods used by criminals. Our people in the fight against crime must have good tools and up-to-date knowledge. Through the establishment of police contacts in all the municipalities of the country, it is proposed to strengthen local crime prevention. They shall act as drivers and ensure that plans and actions are followed up in cooperation with the municipalities and police councils. Violence in close relationships, including violence and child abuse, will be an important part of local work. However, we must not lose sight of the fact that many cases never reach the police and the judiciary, but remain hidden from the outside world. The work to identify these cases is therefore essential, as also pointed out by the Children's Violence Committee in their June 2017 ‘Failure and fraud’ investigation. Strengthening interaction between the services concerned and improving their internal competence is necessary. Measures to improve the protection of victims of violence and abuse are an important part of the escalation plan. We're going to make sure that it's the one who's threatening and exerting violence, who's going to bear the burden in the situation. Children and adults exposed to violence shall live and live in a safe environment without having to seek refuge in the crisis centre or flee to other parts of the country. The Directorate of Police is now developing guidelines to ensure good cross-sectoral cooperation in the use of reverse violence alarm and in the use of address bar code 6. Furthermore, the strengthening of prevention shall be ensured through the establishment of a partner choice. Many of these killings are alerted killings. Improving knowledge of what measures can prevent this from happening will be invaluable and the sample will be reduced in the spring of 2018. I would also like to mention that the Ministry of Justice and Defence has several actions where better knowledge and training are at the heart. This relates to the competence of both police and asylum recipients in the area of violence and abuse. Cooperation is an important key in the fight against violence and sexual abuse against children and young people. The state’s children’s home may be the best example of what a well-coordinated action can mean in terms of the care and follow-up of violence and abuse. For 2018, we have increased the appropriations for the State Children's House by 13 million. kr. We have more than doubled the appropriations for the children's houses since Solberg's government joined, and the total budget for the children's houses is 240 million. kr in 2018. There are challenges related to long-distance travel to children’s homes in several police districts. We will therefore establish two sub-divisions of the Statens Kinderhuset in Bergen and Tromsø in 2018. The subdivisions shall be located in Sogn and Fjordane and Kirkenes respectively. We will initiate an evaluation of the State Children's House during 2018. The evaluation shall cover all aspects of the operation and also the effects of changes in the Criminal Procedures Act on organised interrogation. The importance of the deadline rules will be given particular attention in the evaluation. A significant proportion of the sexual violence to which children and young people are exposed has been committed by young people. The treatment provision and follow-up of this group will be strengthened in the future, and we will now consider the question of whether to interrogate young offenders in children’s homes. Let me then draw attention to the new arenas for child abuse. It is important that the work against violence and assault is done in all the arenas where children are exposed, regardless of whether there is an assault that occurs behind closed doors, or whether it occurs on the dark network. Developing police and trade union capabilities is central to meeting the large increase in Internet-related abuse. The establishment of a Norwegian ‘Cyber Crime Center’, which will start in 2018, will be important for police action against Internet-related crime, also linked to the fight against online abuse. The cases go beyond both police districts and borders, and Kripos reports a triple in the number of cases from abroad. Cross-border cooperation is therefore essential for the police to win in the fight against the perpetrators. Continuous developments require updating and development of police methods so that they are effective and balanced in preventing and combating crime. This must include, inter alia: work towards facilitating new digital working methods. In line with Stortingen’s request decision No. 605 work is under way to develop a strategy against Internet-related child abuse. We're going to pick up recordings and make sure that the people who work on this work for the day-to-day. The fight against child abuse lies close to my heart, and I'm going to do what I can to get the best possible system to take over and care for the victims. The Ministry of Justice and Defence's own research programme now carries out a great deal of research on violence and abuse. Understanding and training are needed at all stages, and this research is an important part of the work. The research shows, among other things: violence and abuse affect a significant number of children and young people. A large proportion of sexual violence takes place among peers. We will continue the research programme as part of the implementation of the escalation plan, and there is a great need for up-to-date knowledge of the challenges of children, young people and the Internet. Therefore, Norway participates in a larger international data collection that provides fresh knowledge of children’s use, risks and experiences with the Internet. The Ministry of Justice and Defence has also launched a project on young people engaging in Internet abuse and a project such as: shall compile existing knowledge of the subject matter. This is an extremely important theme in the future. We are going to cooperate closely with other departments that it is important to get involved in the work on the strategy. I look forward to the further debate and also to working with the Stortinget to find new ways to expose violence and abuse against children.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e2192	The next and last Council of State in this round is Minister of Health Bent Höie.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e2197	A good childhood lasts life, but childhood doesn't come back either. Therefore, it is always important to have a poor time when it comes to giving good offers to children. There should be no doubt that we are taking violence and abuse in close relationships in the greatest seriousness, and I am pleased that the Christian People's Party has invited a broad discussion on the follow-up to this important theme in the Stortinge today. The Minister for Children and Gender Equality has mentioned the government's joint work on the plan, and I want to take into account the key actions under my responsibility. Some measures have been implemented, others are under way and some are under development. Work against violence and assault is challenging and complicated. We lack knowledge and competence, and work requires a great deal of interdisciplinary and cross-sectoral work. The fact that the theme is taboo, has a low status and is emotionally difficult does not make work easier. Services are responsible for preventing, detecting and averting violence and sexual abuse. This responsibility has been made clear through a legislative change for healthcare, specialist healthcare and dental care, which entered into force on 1 January of this year. This means that the municipality, health regions and county authorities must pay particular attention to the fact that patients may be exposed to — or at risk of — violence or sexual assault. They shall also facilitate the provision of services to prevent, detect and avert violence and sexual abuse. It is necessary that management, both in municipalities and in health businesses, has an offensive approach to the fight against violence. The management of the back will make it easier for health professionals to meet, for example: the obligation to notify. The government has determined that violence is a social and public health problem with which we have to do something. It does not apply only in the services. That is why we have made sure that the underlying bodies, which provide us with recommendations and knowledge for policy development, should have violence and abuse in their social tasks. We've strengthened health and school health by more than 1 billion. kr, and the number of annual jobs in the services has increased. Work on violence and abuse has been an important background for this strengthening. A new regulation on health care and school health has been being consulted. In the purpose paragraph, we propose that the service should contribute to the detection of violence, abuse and care failure and to the promotion of social equality in health. The extent of violence and abuse is high, and most services in municipalities are in contact with victims of violence or offenders. Therefore, the usual service must have the competence to meet the needs of children and adults, whether victims or offenders. We must strengthen both the general competence for violence and trauma and the special competence in defined areas. National and regional centres of excellence and resources are central to the development and dissemination of competences, including: on violence in close relationships. The centres have been strengthened by the escalation plan, but there is still much work to be done to raise the competence of the service at the desired level. This, together with the complexity of the field, implies that the work of competence must take place throughout the planning period. The government is well in the process of establishing a package for mental health and alcohol. There's violence, assault and trauma central themes. In the course of the package, it provides for the monitoring, investigation and treatment of patients who are or have been subjected to violence, assault or other traumatic experiences. Monitoring and measures have also been provided for patients who are at increased risk of violence or abuse. In line with the measures set out in the plan of escalation, the State budget for 2017 allocated funds to develop a knowledge base for treatment and outreach of victims and perpetrators of violence. The state budget for 2018 continues the investigation project. The National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress has been commissioned to carry out this mission and cooperates with the Institute for Public Health and the five regional resource centres on violence, traumatic stress and suicide prevention. There is little competence and knowledge in the services for the treatment of children with problematic and harmful sexual behaviour. In 2017 it was granted 5 million. for a treatment offer for young offenders. Health West will lead the work of establishing such a treatment provision in all health regions. A national clinical network shall be established to build investigation and treatment competence for children and young people with problematic or harmful sexual behaviour. Health West shall also direct this work and the network shall be in place during that year. Let me be quite clear that I believe that there is a need to strengthen the treatment provision of the offenders and people who are concerned that they may commit an assault. At the same time, it is essential that the provision of this group is knowledge-based, effective and effective. The Health Directorate, the Professional Environment and the Services are now working to provide a knowledge base on which we can build this service, and I look forward to the outcome of that work. In 2017, Stortinget granted 13.2 million. kr for medical examinations in children’s homes. In addition, a further 7 million were granted in 2018. kr to the health regions for that purpose. Health regions shall ensure that children interviewed at the State Children’s Hospital are offered medical examinations. The funds have been used to establish medical positions and to stimulate several doctors to take social pediatric education and choose this field of work. We have to have better coverage of social pediatricians, and then we have to get more doctors to want to train in this area, but not least to be able to cope with a rather difficult work situation over time. The Health Directorate is now preparing professional advice for children’s doctors and nurses at children’s homes. Councils will include, inter alia, requirements for the forensic competence of social pediatricians working in children’s homes. I want to reassure the representative of Bollestad again that the government has a strong commitment to the work against violence and abuse, and that we will follow up the plan throughout the planning period. Not least, there are many important health measures that I have a responsibility for being followed up and implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e2231	On 8 June 2015, the Commission adopted the following decision: ‘The Government is asked to submit without delay proposals for an obligatory and comprehensive escalation plan aimed at reducing the prevalence of violence in close relations and at strengthening the custody of children exposed to violence and abuse, following the model of the mental health escalation plan. The plan must ensure a multidisciplinary scope of actions, good coordination, and a long-term commitment to increased funding and earmarked resources.’.» The government has not done this. They presented an escalating plan, but it did not respond to Storting's order. Perhaps the biggest defect was that the plan did not add up to any escalation. It did not provide for a long-term obligation to increase funding and earmarked funds. In addition, the government failed to include important areas of action. Some matters were only described. For example, no good measures were proposed aimed at women who are going to re-establish themselves after a violent life, and who have neither house, job or money, nor concrete measures to combat violence against the elderly. Nor was it explained when the various measures were to be implemented during the planning period, which would oblige the government to finance and to earmark funds. In fact, the escalation plan was less binding than previous action plans in the field, although the Storting just ordered an escalation. This was also the basis for the Workers' Party and the Centre's voting against the plan and asked the government to come up with a new plan – a real escalating plan. I record that someone thinks it was political games from the Workers' Party to vote against the plan and say that we wanted a new one, but I will strongly reject it. We wanted more for these kids, and we still do. That is why we have today proposed it once again: a new plan, in line with Stortinget's order from 2015. More than ever, there is a need for escalation of violence and abuse against children. It's just looking at the police statistics and the waiting lists at the children's houses. UNICEF and the Children's Ombudsman called out warnings with us. They also said that this was too bad. Unfortunately, for the children, women and men exposed to violence and abuse, the Labour Party, the Centre Party, UNICEF and the Children's Ombudsman were given the right. There was no escalation with this plan. It's been with big words, plans, and talk. It has happened too little. We must be able to say that these four interpellations of the Christian People's Party are the proof. Finally, I would like to say: there are two types of politicians in this field – those who speak, and those who give money when the tough priorities come. And the numbers are ready. The working party has an alternative budget that is escalating. It also has a Christian People's Party. The government doesn't. It's time for a real escalation. No children have ever been better off by politicians talking. There's a need for money and action, not just talk.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e2253	I want to start by thanking today's four interpellants for addressing this important topic, which unfortunately concerns too many people. The presence of four state councils today at the same time tells us that this is a major issue spanning many policy areas. At that time, it is the responsibility of the government to give a good, cross-sectoral priority to the fight against violence in close relations. I also want to praise the Christian People's Party for working with these challenges along with the government parties, and not supporting the Workers' Party's wish to return the whole plan. It wouldn't earn anyone, just cost a lot of extra time. Of course, I would also like to take the opportunity to thank the Councils for the answers they have given today, which show the Storting that we are working closely with these challenges we are discussing today. Many people call for the size of the appropriations to be a factor in the success or failure of the policy. I don't necessarily share that view. 1 billion. kr to the escalating plan shall be reported to be the one. But then let's think about the numbers a little bit. The 2017 bet was 530 million. NOK and in 2018 this has increased to more than 800 million. kr. Plus 200 is 200 million. kr of the growth of the free income of the municipal sector in 2018, justified by an increased focus on prevention measures for children, young people and families. In the debate here on Stortinget, we must not forget that much of the important work is done every day, to a large extent out there in the municipalities. I am therefore proud to be able to draw up an example from my time as rapporteur in Moss and as head of the representation of the crisis centre in the Moss region. The Moss region and crisis centre were awarded in December, by the Minister of Justice, the year’s co-operation and coordination prize for the fight against violence in close relations. With Moss crisis centre as coordinator, the Mosse region has set up a joint action plan against violence in close relations, ‘Together against violence’. This is a practical plan of 46 interventions that embrace a wide range of activities. Among other things, action cards have been developed for adults and children, and brochures and posters have been created and a separate website for the region that has been named unvold.no. Trade conferences are held, and not least the education of violence, which has become a fixed part of the annual wheels of the schools. The plan has been well-established in the municipalities, and the crisis centre has a clear role as a centre of competence with a coordinating responsibility for the municipalities. The plan is well coordinated and involves all relevant bodies. There is a wide range of work to be done in all relevant sectors. I would particularly like to highlight the importance of violence and abuse as part of school education. The work done in the Mosse region highlights the important role of crisis centres in overall efforts in the municipalities. Not only do the municipalities have a statutory obligation to have a crisis centre offer, but crisis centres have a very specific competence in this field which is important for municipalities to use in their overall efforts to prevent and combat violence and abuse in close relationships.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e2272	You might wonder – perhaps you might even say it’s a little comical – when the Workers’ Party is standing on this pulpit and accusing the other party of going to talk. But I'm going to stay too good to go into it, because what I'm going to start this article with is to extend a big thank you to all those who go to work every day to give children safety. It's perhaps one of the toughest jobs individuals can have in their meeting with children, and I'm incredibly proud that we have these people at work in the municipalities, in the state, and also in many great organizations. I am very proud that in my own county, the head of the investigation in the Dark Room case was drawn up and named Hordalending of the Year. It shows again just this that a theme that has been so taboo, is finally lifted to a new level, where one actually dares to discuss matters openly, even though one knows that it hurts so terribly both to read and hear about them. The aim of the Progress Party is that no one should be subjected to, or be subjected to, violence and abuse, and, as the leader of the Progress Party's fraction in the Family and Culture Committee, I am very pleased that the effort to expose and combat violence and abuse against children is strengthened in the state budget for 2018. The funds shall include, inter alia: is used to strengthen the capacity and competence of the country's children's home. The State Children's House is one of the most important actors contributing to the fight and detection of violence and abuse against children. I don't know if I can say I've had the pleasure of, but at least I've had a great deal of benefit from visiting the children's homes on several occasions, and it's clear that the efforts and the significant increase in priorities that have been made in recent years have been absolutely essential for them to be robust and provide these children with the best possible support. This was the first time that such an escalation plan was presented, and the total effort against violence and abuse for 2018 is now more than 800 million. kr. It also means strengthening the police's resources for investigation into issues relating to violence and child abuse, and I'm incredibly happy that we have the Council of State Sylvi Listhaug, who has given a clear message to society out there that this is an effort that is taken in the utmost seriousness. No child shall suffer in silence, and all children and young people shall have a safe and carefree childhood. My goal and that of the Progress Party is that no child should experience violence and abuse, and I therefore understand that representatives in this Chamber are very impatient in this fight. However, I would like to stress that it has been important for the Progress Party to ensure that those who commit such atrocities against children are adequately punished. That is why I am pleased that we, for example, are doing this. removed the limitation period in such cases. It is now the case that last year we made a proposal to increase the maximum penalty for serial offenders to 26 years in prison. Unfortunately, this was not adopted, and I think it is a pity that, for example. The Labour Party did not support either increasing the punishment or stepping up the plan against violence and abuse when it was dealt with at Stortinget. Giving children a safer daily life requires political will. Whole and long-term solutions – fully agreed – need to be able to combat and prevent these atrocities committed against children. That is why I am pleased that the family committee is now working on several issues that will provide children, among other things. better legal protection. The fact that we adults dare to talk about and dare to deal with these matters is crucial, and it is also our duty to lift them in all relevant forums, as I see it. That's why I think it was good that the Council of State drew up the example of Facebook today, because it was also one of the first things I brought up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e2287	Thank you to the Christian People's Party, who has seen an important issue on the agenda of the Stortinget. After all, violence and abuse are a major societal problem; it is happening in all walks of life and in all environments, and it has huge costs. We also know that children and young people who are subjected to violence and abuse have poorer prospects when it comes to mental and physical health, intoxication, outreach, lack of schooling, etc. So it's a very important thing that's being discussed today. More have shown that in 2015 the Stortinget decided to submit a mandatory and holistic escalation plan that would reduce the prevalence of power in close relations and strengthen the custody of children under election. Several have also indicated that both the Labour Party and the Center Party voted against this escalation plan. I thought it was a rather silly debate – perhaps not a parliamentary one – when one discusses who is right and who is wrong about it. However, the reason we went against it at the time was that more people pointed out that the plan lacked many: important issues were left out, it was not done well for when the measures were to be implemented during the planning period, etc. The Barneombode described, among others: the plan as a «problem description», UNICEF pointed out that the government did not respond to the request of the Stortinget, Kripos stated that there should have been several concrete measures aimed at the smallest children, and Redd Barna said that the measures were not sufficient to prevent children being subjected to sexual abuse online. We believed that the plan did not address the need to prevent and uncover the choice in close relationships that are particularly vulnerable and vulnerable. elderly, nursing, people with psychiatric and/or drug problems and people with developmental disabilities. But now we are discussing the way forward, and of course we are in agreement with all the measures taken by the government, even though we are faced with the fundamental criticism that this is not enough or sufficient. Some of the things that have been mentioned today: when it comes to the police, the near-police reform would ensure a greater professional environment, which gives a boost to the investigation. We are quite a few of them. It's very important. But to prevent it, you have to have police officers who know the community, who know the family, who know the child, and who can prevent things from happening. The plan also shows that the municipal reform should contribute to better services for vulnerable children and young people, but it is not right to conclude that there is less power and abuse in large municipalities. I haven't seen such statistics, and at least it's a simplification that I want to warn you that we're going to do. I agree with what has been said about strengthening the health centre, school health services, the centre of competence, competence in services, in education, etc. But there are some things I miss in the debate. When the Minister of Health took the floor, the word ‘fixed’ was not mentioned in one word. If there is someone who should know the family and be able to go in and run prevention and early effort, it is determined. We will present a proposal later today on strengthening the system of fixed medical devices. I think it's also important for this case. So I thought it was striking that no one, as far as I have been given, talked about alcohol and alcohol. We know that alcohol and alcohol are part of a lot of the things that have to do with violence and abuse. We know that in Norway there are 410,000 children who, according to the Institute of Public Health, have one or two parents with mental disorders. 90 000 children have at least one parent who abuses alcohol. Not all of these have serious sufferings, but at least we know that there are many children who have a greater risk of being selected than others. This context is well documented. This should also be noted much more when we talk about an action plan to prevent violence and violence. The situation of resources in the field of mental health protection should also be addressed by the Minister of Health. Many people who need treatment are actually being rejected. We've also had recent examples of this lately, in different places in the country, with terrible outcomes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e2304	Thank you very much to the Christian People's Party, who have travelled a very, very important matter. I think it has been said very much wisely in this room today. It seems that everyone here agrees that this is a major challenge – and that is, definitely – and that the fight to limit violence in close relations should be far ahead in our political consciousness. I am also very pleased that the state councils that are here today show that they are actually listening to what is being said and giving concrete response to things that they want to put forward. But we may be facing some kind of phenomenon here, that the opposition, which here shows its impatience, is being met with what we might call a kind of wall of goodwill. Everyone agrees that this is good, but very little happens. To illustrate what this is about: I've been working on this for many years, and everything when I led Amnesty 15 years ago, we were up in these kinds of issues. See for yourself a class picture with a Norwegian first class with ten girls. In the course of life, four of these girls expect to be subjected to violence, most of them from the men of their lives – girlfriend, partner, or father. One of the ten girls will be subjected to life-threatening violence, one of these girls will be raped during life, and the acts of violence, as everyone here says, can cause to many life-long damage. The action plan, which we now lack more fulfillment of, is about protecting Norwegian women and children, but also about helping to solve one of the world's biggest societal problems. In fact, in many countries — and I have been in many of the countries where this happens — the authorities are completely passive spectators to the effect that millions of women and children are beaten, raped and sexually mutilated, largely by husband, father, uncle or brother. If you go back a few years in Norway, we also thought that the legal system should not interfere with the family. Still, some Norwegian police use terms such as ‘housewreck’ instead of more legal terms such as ‘violence’ and ‘violence’. The concept of housewreck still illustrates a lack of awareness of what this is actually about. The UN has made good numbers that can guide us. One in three women in the world is exposed to violence, in Norway one in four. One in four women in their lives are subjected to sexual assault, in Norway one in ten. Everyone agrees that this is unbearable, unacceptable and disastrous. I believe that some of the reasons for our impatience is that there are as many people who experience assault, violence and rape now as it was 25 years ago. The crisis centre secretariat reports that there are as many applicants for crisis centres as there were 25 years ago. A little bit happens. The only obvious difference is an increasing number of reviews, especially for rape and sexual offences against children. Yes, there are so many that the police report that they can't handle it. Seven out of ten cases against children were committed in 2017. Despite very good intentions, including: the ratification of the Istanbul Convention, i.e. the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of the River against Violence in Close Relations, was provided with very little money. The Children's Ombudsman called the government's draft budget a mockery of the children. It was the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left that provided little bit more money into this. Without a power cut, we will still see in 25 years that we have big words, but that very little will have happened. In conclusion, I would like to give a tribute to Minister of Justice Listhaug. I am pleased that, in her speech today, she gives a professionally good approach to this matter and comes up with very specific measures that she wants to address, rather than using words and concepts that do not belong in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e2324	First of all, I would like to thank the Christian People's Party, which has put an important issue on the agenda, but I would also like to thank all the representatives and state councils who have taken the floor and through this debate show that this is a problem we jointly take seriously. Violence and assault on children has been one of my heart's issues as a politician, and also through my professional life, which I started in the Red Child. I am pleased to be the co-rapporteur for 17 offensive and concrete proposals to prevent violence and abuse against children while ensuring a better follow-up of children who have already been subjected to violence and abuse. As former ski rapporteur, I worked to strengthen both the competence of employees and the competence of children on their own boundaries of how to deal with other children, through training programmes in kindergarten, school, etc. In this pulpit, ‘early effort’ and ‘prevention’ are words we use in many contexts. When it comes to violence and assault, we can almost not start early enough. The goal must be a zero vision for violence and abuse against children and otherwise in society. The long-term consequences of child abuse can be very difficult to bear for individuals. In order to prevent and prevent abuse, we must first acknowledge that abuse occurs. The vast majority of abuses are committed by someone whom the child knows well. It could be Mom or Dad, the teacher or the coach. It could be an older trust elected in one's own political party. Yes, we actually have to admit that this can happen quite close to ourselves – as No Marte Thorkildsen has the title of his book: You don't see it until you believe it. Kristin Værholm wrote last week in a chronicle in Bergen's Official Journal: "That those who fantasize about, discuss and perform gross rapes against children, the day after, tears and butter are drying food packages, we do not get that right." We have to recognize to be able to prevent this. Therefore, it is very important to bear in mind that a large proportion of sexual abuse is committed by other children. It's not the monster under the bed little sister's afraid. There could be a big brother in the next room. International research to which the Medical Association refers points out that the most common age for first-time assault is 13 years, with a significant male overweight. The Medical Association also writes that the number of children and young people under 18 who have committed or committed sexual assault is not known, but what we know, with the background of international research, is that between 30 pst. and 50 pst. all sexual assaults are committed by persons of this age group. Norway needs to escalate the provision of treatment to young people with sexually superior behaviour. In paragraph 5 of today's proposal for a representative, the Labour Party therefore promotes the following: ‘The government is asking the government to establish treatment provision for young offenders under 18 years of age, with a view to preventing new abuses. The provision of treatment to children who commit sexual assault shall not be co-located with the provision of treatment to children who are victims of sexual assault.’;» This was, therefore, part of the proposal for a representative which was promoted at the start of the meeting today. The research shows that the treatment of young people who have committed sexual abuse works. Most young people end up being assaulted when they are seen and treated correctly. That is why I am pleased that both the Minister of Health and the Minister of Justice addressed the issue of young offenders in their contributions. Proper and early treatment can ensure that undesirable behaviour is corrected and that new abuses are stopped. That's why it's urgent! I want the Minister of Health to explain why there has not been a sufficient escalation of such treatment provision in Norway. The Council of State referred to the Health West and a good offer that exists there, but if I heard the Minister of Health correctly, the amounts of puzzles were heard to be able to get a national bet on such a treatment offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e2350	I use to say that childhood is the very foundation of life. Hits it cracks, shakes it all your life, maybe, and you really don't know how long it stands. The work against violence and child abuse is high in the government’s focus, and there has never been such a binding plan in this area that today’s government came in the autumn of 2016. The plan has a comprehensive and long-term effort to reduce the incidence of violence and abuse. The main areas of action in the plan of escalation are prevention, empowerment at various departments and institutions and follow-up of victims and young offenders. Young attackers make up more than 40 pst. These statistics show that this is a complex area, and information and knowledge raising are being introduced at all levels, which is also further reinforced in the Jeløya Platform, where a specific effort has been made to strengthen police capacity and competence to combat cybercrime, including increasing police presence on the Internet. We have seen that the increase in competence is necessary and yields results, thus referring to the results revealed in the Dark Room case and in Operation Jupiter. In its previous period, the Government has granted grant schemes for parental support measures in the municipalities, which increased by 20 million until 2017. kr. At the same time, there has been a formidable bet of over 1 billion. health centre and school health services, which play an absolutely important role in, among others. to prevent and detect violence. And the report shows that children and young people make contact with health sisters in schools. The incest centers are reinforced by 9 million. kr. In the 2018 budget agreement, the State Children's House is strengthened by 161 million. kr and receives with this both improved capacity and quality, in addition to 20 million. kr for medical examinations in children’s homes. The enormous focus, and not least the enormous allocations given, has enabled all those working with children to be trained in the detection of abuses — school, kindergarten, children’s home, regional resource centre on violence, traumatic stress and suicide prevention, AIM2, V27, child protection, the BUP and not least the Stine Sofies Foundation, etc. International cooperation is taking place, as there are many experiences also in other countries, which show that it is possible to prevent new abuses by focusing on the subject in an appropriate way, based on concrete tools and manuals. The budgetary agreement points out that violence and abuse against children have a high priority, with increased bets for 2018. To name a few bets: the Kripos section for sexual offences is strengthened by more than 35 million. kr, and work against Internet-related child abuse is reinforced by 11 million. kr. There is no doubt that this government is following the escalation plan against violence and child abuse both in practice and in grants from the budget. The attacks on children are to be taken, the motto of our Council of State, and the work being done is enormous and embraces wide.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e2367	Now I'm going to say what I think we say a little too rarely here in the house, and it's that even as an opposition I think many of the councils so much wise. Children should learn more about their own boundaries and boundaries, we strengthen their children's homes, there will be increased data literacy in the police, and there will be a focus on young attackers. These are good things that SV has also been on. When we voted on this plan, SV also wanted a better plan, such as the Workers' Party, but we chose to support the government secondaryly because we think it is good to go in with good measures rather than vote against everything. It is now said by the representative of the Progress Party that there has never been a more committed plan before. It must be said to be quite special to say when the Children's Ombudsman is furious with the government and says it is too bad. When those who represent the children in the field say that this is a terrible bad plan, and that's the best plan the government has ever made, then it's very sad for the government. I started by saying that a lot is good, but there is a lot that is missing, and that especially applies to the money. Words are cheap, but the money shows our priorities. The government proposed 54 million. NOK for the escalation of this plan. At the same time, they spent 700 million. kr on share tax to the richest in Norway. So we're not talking about general tax relief for people who are in work or pensioners who are saving; we're talking about share discount for speculators in Norway. So the government that's sitting right now has spent just 13 times more money on the stock discount for the millionaires than they spend on stopping violence and assaulting children. Words are cheap, money is priorities. In the examination of this case, the SV received a majority in favour of, inter alia. two proposals – together with the right-hand side – that we have promoted. One was the increased use of the reverse alarm, and the other was that we should limit the movement of the attackers. Today, it is often so that it is the one who is being raped who must live in fear. You get a security alarm in your hand, but you are at home and never know when the attacker can come and knock on the door. Fear follows you around the clock. So even when the attacker is convicted, you're the one who's being punished with fear. Something has happened when it comes to the use of the reverse violence alarm, but it goes too slowly, and it happens too little – perhaps because the money is so few. So I would like to ask the government to follow up the decisions that SV got through, on the more use of the reverse violent alarm, and that we can stop the attackers from once being allowed to move into the areas where those who have been raped, turned down, live. It is important, and I hope that the government will take on board these proposals from SV in a better way. Then I will end by talking about violence and abuse against children. That's what I was working on before I became a staging representative. I think we're adults, too often we think we know the answers to what helps children and young people who are subjected to violence and abuse. Children and young people often know what they need for help. They need to be in the driver's seat. When we see that violence and abuse happen, as adults, we become so desperate on behalf of the children that we throw ourselves in with measures and instruments that we think are right, but that can feel very bad for the children, who again lose control of their own situation. They're under attack, perhaps by some close, losing control of their lives, but then adults come in and have to help – and again, the children run over without listening to them, and in some ways it can almost feel like a new attack. Much is good, but we have to listen to the children, and then we have to follow up good words with actual action. SV expects our proposals to be followed up better, so that it is the perpetrator and not the perpetrators, who have to live in fear or have their freedom restricted. So we think it's very special that the government that now governs, chooses to spend 13 times more on the stock discount for the millionaires than they choose to spend on putting money behind their words to secure children and young people against violence and abuse.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e2391	First, like the previous speaker, I would like to thank the interpellants very much for raising the important question: how has the government followed up the decisions in the escalation plan against violence and abuse? Interpellants indicate that the majority of the population, including the Government Parties, the Right Party and the Left, listed measures to be followed up in the State budget for 2018 when examining the escalating plan in November 2016. We know the fasitite – all four interpellants say the same thing: when the state budget for 2018 was presented last October, it became clear that the government had not followed up, although statistics show that the volume of reports related to violence and child abuse is increasing sharply. When the counter-violence plan was discussed in the previous period, the Workers' Party and the Central Party proposed that the matter be returned to the government. The plan was a little concrete. We didn't get through to that. On the contrary, the majority of the population considered that this would lead to a postponement of measures for vulnerable children and young people, for whom victims did not have time to wait. But now we see in all four interviews that the status is that the victims are still waiting. In that debate we were accused of running political games on a very serious matter. First of all, let me say that the Workers' Party is not a party that plays political games on such important issues. On the contrary, we have made a number of proposals to advance the work against violence and abuse, where we have had a special focus on children who are victims of, or witnesses to, violence in close relations. The list of proposals is long, the list of transpositions by the majority is unfortunately not as long. In contrast to the government and the majority of the population, which thus failed to follow up their own decisions, the Workers' Party in its 2018 alternative budget promoted a large additional investment in children and young people's safety of a total of 700 million. through actions in the budget of several ministries. The detection of violence and abuse in close relationships, network abuse and unsafe growth conditions all shake. But it's not enough to talk, it has to be done. Today, the Labour Party has promoted a proposal for a representative with 17 concrete measures, which are, to a large extent, repetitions of proposals that we have previously promoted, but have not received a majority. But we're not giving in. Once again, we ask the government to come up with a concrete, committed and comprehensive plan of escalation against violence in close relations and for the care of children exposed to violence and abuse. We hope to support this time. It'll show up. Many themes could have been addressed in this debate – I have selected two. Former Minister of Justice Anders Anundsen sent a letter to all the municipalities of the country on a proposal from the Workers' Party on 1 April 2016. He says in his letter that child abuse belongs to the concept of ‘social security’ and the municipalities are asked to use the Emergency Council to combat violence against children and young people. It also states that this type of violence and abuse is serious, potentially life-threatening, and that there is a clear link between violence and mental and physical health. He refers to research that sexual abuse, physical abuse and care failure have a greater impact on physical and mental health than on other stressful events. So my question to the Minister of Justice is, what is the status of this work today? Has the council followed up with the municipalities, or was it just a letter? As a member of the Labour and Social Committee, I am also particularly concerned about the worrying growth in the proportion of young people suffering from mental illness as a diagnosis. More than half of young people are diagnosed with mental and behavioural disorders. We have previously asked the Minister of Labour about statistics or research that might say something about the proportion of these young people who have been or are victims of violence in close relationships, care failure and other types of abuse. And the answer was, no one knows, no one asks. But when we visit the Nav office that works specifically with this group, they answer that there are many. Therefore, I would like to address the question to the Minister for Health: the Health Service asks well when treating children and young people with mental illness, because then it is probably an essential part of the treatment to identify the causes of mental illness. So one last question to the Minister of Health, which particularly concerns me as a member of the Labour and Social Committee, is: How does the Ministry of Health cooperate with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to prevent the double punishment of children and young people who are victims of violence by also falling out of school and then working life?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e2416	Our children are the dearest we have, and the entire emotional register is challenged when we are witnessed that our child or the children of others are subjected to violence and abuse. Especially in the last six months we've heard of operation Dark Room, and it's hard to believe that Norwegian men and women can be participants in such bestial acts against children. You actually have to ask yourself where we really failed. Through despair, social media comment areas are screaming about more severe punishments, more police, that something has to be done. It's man's natural reflections about the need for protection that turns out, and society requires us to do something. Most of us have heard about social control where children become punching balls and sales goods. Most of us may also know neighbors or others who resort to violence when the world does not go all their way. 10 pst. of all women who have been raped. Over half of these are under 18 years of age. Between 75 000 and 150000 women are subjected to violence each year. What has also been revealed recently is a large amount of violence against the elderly. We're not going to have it that way. People don't want it that way. For us as politicians, it is so absolute time to say that the limit of what we fellow humans and society can accept has been reached a long time ago. The spiral has to be stopped, and we have to figure out how to reverse the negative trend. The challenge of violence and violence is taking this government most seriously. Very few policy areas have had such a wide-ranging upsurge as just the escalation plan against violence and abuse. The whole of the four departments have jointly developed launch tools for the future. Now the road has to be measured up and the map drawn. We're going to implement measures, and we're going to try new ones. Maybe we'll be wrong about some things, but through knowledge, through mapping, by finding solutions and by showing some action, we're going to show that we won't give up until we're in the goal. That people who every day stand in a terrible everyday life marked by violence become impatient, are very understandable. It is for these very people that we are continuously strengthening all stages of the follow-up, prevention and treatment chain – from health sisters and psychologists in the school health service to teachers and kindergarten staff. As the ministers also said, violence in close relations is still a taboo area, not only for those who are subjected to violence, but also for people around. Still, health professionals and others refuse to ask direct questions about violence because they may not know exactly what to do with the answer they get. The Progress Party is committed to finding solutions, and that is why it has been a priority for us to meet those who meet violently on a daily basis. Through direct dialogue, we understand the better challenge, and we find better solutions that can work, but we also see that something will take some time. «Holy» is a widely used word, of good and bad, but in its correct context, this very word is one of the most important for modern prevention, treatment and rehabilitation. Because it has to be considered completely if we want a non-violent society, and we have to find contexts to find the answer. That's why this takes time. Therefore, an action plan against violence and abuse takes time. That should also be understood by the Christian People's Party. 33 proposals were adopted during the examination of the proposal. Even a powerful blue government full of will will have to spend more time fulfilling everyone. I can't wait to comment on two of the interpellations of the Christian People's Party today, where they are simply trying to take credit for the fact that the action plan against violence and abuse has become a reality. I might think it's a little bit rude. It is quite ok not to mention that the whole seven of the party's proposals were voted down with great emphasis in the Storting, but to leave the impression that nothing would have been done without the will of the Christian People's Party, is to take a little too hard in.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e2435	Thank you to the Christian People's Party for raising this debate in the Chamber today. In connection with violence and abuse or suspicion of this, various agencies are often involved in the case. Kindergarten, school, child protection, health care, Nav and the police are examples of such. These have different roles, different laws and different practices. In some cases, they do not know enough about existing legislation and how to practice it. Several agencies can also follow up the same case, but they do not know enough about each other. This, as well as the lack of communication and cooperation between different departments, can lead to an excessive follow-up to children who are subjected to violence and abuse, for example. where the healthcare system or the protection of children gives parents insight into a case in which parents are suspected of violence against the child, despite the fact that transparency may harm police investigations or contribute to making the situation worse for the child. It is a challenge that the rules on professional secrecy, disclosure and information rights are contained in a variety of laws and partly differ in design, including the Administrative Act, the Health Personnel Act, the Special Health Service Act, the Child Protection Act, the Children's Hospital Act and the Training Act. There is a need to see the different laws in the context, and there is a need for a comprehensive review of the legal provisions governing professional secrecy, disclosure and information rights. This is important in order to prevent further abuses or cases of violence. We have tried to fix this with supervisors, but it has been shown that the supervisors do not hold. They do not change practices sufficiently, and supervisors too often end up in the drawers of the different workplaces. Law changes are needed. It is also a challenge that employees have a lack of knowledge of the legislation to help prevent violence and abuse and that legislation is not being used. This could prevent inter-departmental cooperation and lead to the continuation of violence and abuse. Lack of knowledge of how to use the decommissioning obligation is another example. The experience gained after the abolition obligation was strengthened in the penal code is that it is largely not used. There is also a need to review this in the criminal law. A third example is disclosure. A NOVA report, Report 3/13, shows that although information obligations on child protection services are known, the obligation to provide information to other agencies, such as the police and social services, is to a lesser extent known. It's possible to do something. It is necessary to amend the legislation in order to be able to help more children who are subjected to abuse. The Labour Party has proposed what I am now talking about, in Stortinget today, and I hope that the Council of State will give its support to – yes, actually spend some money on – this. It'll mean a lot to a lot of kids. The key to moving on after living with violence in close relationships is often to become financially independent. It's hard to get free without your own income. Then it's absolutely essential to have a job and your own salary. A doctoral study of Kjersti Alsaker in 2008 shows that four out of ten mistreated women are not allowed by their husband to work. There's a lot of them. It goes without saying that it is demanding to go when you do not have your own money. Without a job, many people experience that they cannot afford to leave the prison they live in. That means that the children must live with constant fear and terror. The escalation plan, which would be a kind of lighthouse towards 2021, does not have good measures to help these women and children. That was one of the reasons why the Workers' Party voted against that plan. There is no doubt that there is agreement on the objectives, but there is disagreement about how important it is to talk, and how important it is to act. It sounds like money is less important when it comes to violence and assault, when we hear posts here today. For me, it expresses one of two things: either it's a depriorization of the field, or it's a diversion because one won't prioritize more money against violence and assault.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e2454	‘Did you know that violence against children is likely to cost society as much as the four major diseases of the population, cardiovascular disease, cancer, chronic lung disease and diabetes? Society invests large resources to prevent these ‘four large’. But when it comes to violence against children, we do too little before the damage is done first." These are the words of children's representative and play Anne Lindboe and stood in VG 24 April 2017. She also writes that the long-term consequences for children who are subjected to violence and abuse are often great, in addition to the pain and trauma that children suffer there and then. Many of the children are unable to complete school, fall out of work, struggle with alcohol and crime, and have poor mental and physical health. So why haven't you done more, Bent Höie? You have been Minister of Health for a number of years. The health sector is perhaps the sector where the need for a commitment to violence and abuse is greatest. The health sector has an important role to play in finding and following up children and in prevention. Why don't you take the same responsibility to prevent violence against children as to prevent the four major public diseases? You've got it, haven't you? You know that. The Children's Ombudsman has been talking about this for years. Today, we are proposing concrete measures in terms of health, violence and abuse. I hope you'll support these. It is not the solution to all the challenges, but there are measures that will benefit and will be a step in the right direction. Health services have a unique opportunity to prevent violence and detect children who are subjected to violence and abuse. Health services follow the children from maternity care, follow-up at the health centre, in school health services, at the dentist, at the hospital and at the hospital. These services need to be better able to detect and help. Health services also have the opportunity to follow-up the children who are being exposed, so that they can work out what has happened in the best possible way and so that they can move on. Health services play a crucial role, but the attention of the Minister of Health seems to be elsewhere. It is possible to detect violence early and help the children in time. But then it has to be done more than sign an escalation plan in the government. Then we must get a health minister with the will to act and give priority to the work against violence and abuse. So far the effort has been too poor.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e2477	I'd like to remind the representative that every speech goes through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e2482	Thanks for the interpellations. This is an important afternoon. The level of reports related to violence and child abuse is increasing. The interpellation of the Christian People's Party shows that, unfortunately, the Workers' Party was right. The so-called escalation plan of the government was no escalation. The government has not followed up and has taken measures to help the children. There will be too much talk and too little power. It doesn't help children to talk. There is a need for action. When the government does not follow up on this critical work, when the appropriations do not — yes, a new plan is needed. We have therefore put forward proposals for a new, real, escalation plan earlier today and hope that we can bring it with us the majority. In addition, the Labour Party has promoted 16 other concrete proposals that the government should address. Minister of Justice Listhaug says she's going to take the attackers, but so far nothing's happening. Great words do not hold fast when we are going to fight this great problem. Today, we are facing a situation in which we do not have enough resources to take the attackers and save the children. There has been an explosion in the number of cases, but there is not enough money to follow up. Police statistics show that the number of cases involving sexual activity, intercourse and infringing behaviour against children aged 14 to 16 has increased by 183 pst. since 2013. Sexual intercourse and rape of children under 14 years of age have increased by 18.4 p.m. from 2016 to 2017 – in one year. At the same time, the police districts, which are to investigate matters, have had less economic space under the Solberg government. I also want to point to a very serious aspect in terms of child abuse, the Internet. The Internet has lowered the threshold for committing abuse. It is possible today to order the rape of children on the other side of the globe, from their own sofa. This has increased the volume. The Internet causes the material to spread enormously. The Workers' Party will ensure that more than one intervener is taken and will strengthen the legal certainty of the victims. The government must ensure that there is sufficient capacity in the police districts and at the children’s homes to meet the enormous growth in the number of cases. It has to be over that matters remain after questioning. Questions must be answered quickly and followed up. State Councillor Listhaug has a responsibility to enable the police to ensure the legal security of all victims of sexual abuse. At the same time, the police have to get a digital boost to meet the new crime scene, not only at Kripos, but also in the police districts. The Labour Party knows that a society where children are safe is a society where everyone is safe. We want to facilitate a society where children can grow up free from abuse, and where parents are to be safe for their children, both on the Internet and in the real world – and in the middle of the room.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e2499	Childhood does not come in reprisals. A lost childhood is and will be lost and has great consequences for the child’s adulthood. It is an important topic that will be discussed here today. Children are vulnerable and have a special need for protection, care and love. At the same time, children are individuals with independent rights. The right of children to safety and safety shall always be a priority. We adults all have a responsibility to give our children and young people as good growth conditions as possible. As politicians, we have an extra big responsibility. Violence against and abuse of children, both physically and mentally, are serious abuses. I trust that the government will follow the escalation plan against violence and abuse by strengthening prevention, treatment and follow-up. Family protection, prevention and early intervention are also important elements in ensuring good growth conditions. There are many reasons why children are subjected to violence and abuse. Russ and psychiatry are two of them. Nor is it possible to get past the fact that immigrants from some countries have a different culture than us, and that many of them have a different threshold for when it comes to what we define as violence against children. A survey shows that the incidence of mental disorders is slightly higher among immigrants from low-income and middle-income countries than in the rest of the population. At the same time, immigrants have consistently less contact with mental health services than the rest of the population. This is a major challenge and demonstrates the importance of good integration. Psychiatric health is one of the main areas of government activity. Good mental health is important for good quality of life and for mastering everyday life and work. The threshold for assistance must be low and the help must be available in the community. Therefore, efforts must be made at the earliest opportunity for those with mental problems. Psychiatric disorders must also be prevented. Work and activity shall be an integral part of treatment and follow-up. The government will build up barriers to seeking help, including: for the minority population. Psychiatric health shall be an integral part of public health work. The government is in the process of introducing a mental health package. There is also a link between drug abuse and violence and child abuse. The government will pursue a knowledge-based drug policy aimed at preventing drug problems, reducing harm and limiting adverse effects such as violence and child abuse. We have good experience with package trajectories, and we have a clear goal of establishing a good package for drug treatment by 2020. An important part of the package is that patients should go directly from detoxification to treatment. On the right, efforts will be made to establish more detoxification sites and to strengthen the supply both before and after treatment, as well as to establish more teams around users involving both specialist health services and municipal services. Children of addicts also need a good follow-up, and perhaps they also need treatment. Therefore, the Right will strengthen the lowthreshold provision for children of drug addicts. Many of those with drug problems and psychiatry are in prison. Therefore, we will also strengthen the provision of detoxification and life-stressing services in prison for prisoners with drug problems. There are many reasons behind the tragedy many children experience. So Russia and psychiatry are two of the reasons. These are areas where the government will invest resources to give all those affected a better life.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e2521	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e2526	I would like to start by thanking you for a good debate on a very important topic. I am pleased to hear that the Council of State with the coordinating responsibility is so clear that this is something the government wants to focus heavily on, and that she will also invite the other Councils responsible for this area to regular meetings to check the status. It's important. The council also praised the Christian People's Party to make a difference. We all want that, as long as making a difference means something to the kids we're talking about. But it does not hold that the Christian People's Party alone constitutes this difference. The government and the majority of the population must also be willing to make the difference so that more children can be helped – children who are exposed to the most cruel things. I also agree with the Council of State that there are no simple solutions to this, and that you have to work hard here. At the same time, it's about keeping pace up, because here's a child who can't wait, and they need help. I hear that the Workers' Party and many of the Workers' Party's representatives spend a lot of time in this debate explaining why they chose to send back the government's response to the escalation plan, because it was not a commitment. It is quite right that the Christian People's Party was not satisfied with what the government came to the Stortinget. But instead of just sending it back and postponing the case, we sat down and worked out a dozen new measures and proposals that would mean that we started action faster. That work could also have been part of – both the Workers' Party and the Center Party could have helped to do the piece of work that the Christian People's Party did in Stortinget, instead of sending it back again. But then I want to say to the Workers' Party: Today they have promoted a Document 8 proposal with new measures that the Christian People's Party will look at in depth. We support all proposals – whether from the government or from other parties on the Stortinget – if we see that this can help to make a difference for the children who really have it hurt and difficult. Then I just have to be allowed to comment on the accusation against the Christian People's Party that comes from a Progress Party representative that we were adorable who tried to take credit for the government's escalation plan. The escalation plan is the result of a Document 8 proposal promoted by the Christian People's Party in this room in 2015. But this isn't about taking credit for anything. I would have liked that kind of polemics not to be heard here today. The important thing is that we all contribute to making a difference for the children that we've had as a topic here today. But thank you for a good debate, I look forward to the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e2543	I would like to thank the Minister of Knowledge for the answer. I also register the interest in the hall to have a reinforced effort in this field, which is about vulnerable children in kindergarten and school. I am pleased with this clarification from the Council of State that the requirements for competence in this field are now included in the various professional training courses. I am also pleased with his response to the work that is now under way for the development of a digital information material for employees in kindergarten and school. We have recorded that there has already been some work in this field in the nursery planning. And I record -- it's very positive -- that this subject also becomes part of the multidisciplinary themes of lifelong learning and public health, while continuing to focus on bullying. We think that's very good, and we're looking forward to the follow-up in this area. I believe that in order to equip ourselves for a better preparedness in this field in the future, it is absolutely necessary that we dry and believe that abuse will happen in the future as well. It must again mean that any suspicion must be followed up. Increased competence, on which considerable efforts are now being made, will help to follow up legislation and will remove some of the uncertainties that many people feel about today: How are we going to deal with this? So we know from many other bets in other fields, that it doesn't get any better what one says, if one doesn't still have a lot of attention to it a want to have a better follow-up of. If you lose your attention, the bet disappears. I have no doubt that if we are to give our children in kindergarten and school a safer everyday life and protect them from this type of abuse, we must also bet in the future on increased preparedness, more training and clear follow-up to guidelines and routines. Finally, today there is a ban on the addition of offenders to kindergarten and school. There is therefore reason to ask whether such a provision should also apply to employment in high school. I think there is good reason to reconsider whether a police record is sufficient for employment in this school as well. With all the dark figures in this field, there are good reasons to also look at a regulatory framework that imposes the same requirements on high school employees as on high school employees and primary school employees. I am pleased that the signals from the state councils and representatives, who have spoken in this matter, are so clear in the direction of greater awareness, more competence and training that will contribute to greater vigilance and security in dealing with issues relating to violence and child abuse. Thank you for a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e2562	I would also like to thank you very much for a good debate. I notice the commitment of the councils, and I think that's exactly the best starting point for action, for action has to be done now. An increasing number of children need help, and more people need help. If we are to stop this development, we must work together and across sectors. We need to ensure the knowledge and competence of those working with children, and relevant actors need to cooperate better. Among other things, legislation should be drawn up in the Child Protection Act relating to cooperation and accountability between child protection and police in matters relating to violence and child abuse. The disclosure, disclosure and professional secrecy obligations must be known to all who are dealing with children. The legislation must not prevent children from receiving the assistance they are entitled to. The police must be provided with tools, resources and capacity. From 2014 to 2016, there was almost a doubling of the number of organised interrogations. Children’s homes must be provided with sufficient resources and several pilots must be set up. Their efforts are invaluable and their competence needs to be further developed. It must be ensured that the police actually question children suspected of sexual abuse in the children's homes. Children must be given a statutory right to treatment and follow-up for this problem in children’s homes first and then transferred to children’s and young people’s psychiatry. Several social pediatricians have to be trained. There are still several children’s homes that strive to have medical examinations carried out in children’s homes. The Christian People's Party has great expectations of the follow-up, especially in view of the draft budget coming to the harvest. In this regard, I would quote from a remark by the majority – Right, Advance Party and Christian People’s Party – in the vote that came when the Stortinget dealt with the escalation plan: ‘To succeed in combating violence and abuse, it is essential, in the view of the majority, to ensure action with a holistic approach and a long-term commitment to increased funding and targeting of funds. The majority therefore emphasises that the measures in the escalation plan should be followed up by fresh and targeted means. In addition, the majority points out that the plan is to be numerical in terms of amounts for the entire planning period.’;» There is still a lot to be done, and we must therefore work together to achieve the ambition to ensure a safe childhood for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e2586	I would also like to thank the Minister of Health for the answer he gave, and a summary might be: A lot is done, a lot is going on and a lot remains. So far more children need help, and more attackers need help. There are many things that remain, and we have to work to achieve the ambition to secure a secure childhood for absolutely everyone. Violence in close relationships, which is a major social problem, is important to me as a Christian People's Party politician. I can't let go of talking for exactly these -- these ones that scare themselves to night, to night, to weekend. If someone needs to be heard, it's just these. If someone needs to be talked about in this room, it's exactly these; these are one of our smallest little ones. Kids who are under assault, and who need us to see them, kids who have been assaulted, and who need us to help them, kids who are under assault and need help for treatment, are our responsibility. For the Christian People's Party, this escalation plan against violence against children has been associated with much else that we have done. We've been busy with midwifery, controls and knowing early. We've been involved in health care, ear tagging and school health services. We have been concerned with bullying agents and to get a decision on it in this room. We have been concerned about prioritising children's homes. We've been working on a stepping-up plan for children and young people's mental health. We have been committed to making proposals for a reduction in alcohol. We have been busy with filters in the iPads for young people and young people. We've been busy with booze. And we've been concerned that ideal actors -- who are with our kids not from eight to four, when they're in school and kindergarten, but from four to eight, weeks through -- must also see our kids and see those in danger. That's why it's actually – together – about seeing the kids who are now outside and who, as of today, don't have a good enough safety net to get a good life.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e2597	I would also like to thank you for a very good debate. There have been a lot of nice posts with good input that we're going to take with us. I am also pleased that so many representatives underline the need for the different sectors here to work across and work together, and that it is only in the way that we are able to achieve the very ambitious goals we have set ourselves. I am also pleased that the total investment for 2018 is over 800 million. kr. I am pleased with all the measures that we are now following in the escalation plan, which we are putting into action, and which we are now working with with with full force, and I am sure there will be a lot more children getting help. I also think it is nice that many people have mentioned Internet-related child abuse. I think there are a lot of people who are insecure, especially parents. The fact that children are so digital, that most children – down to the age of nine – own a smart phone, which they also use when their parents are not present and look at how they move online, means that parents also need to have the necessary knowledge, information, to make their children safe online, but also to ‘vaccinate’ their children for reasonable online use so that they do not make themselves available, become vulnerable and vulnerable to those who are systematically looking for these children. I am therefore pleased that it was granted about 11 million. to strengthen this fight against Internet-related child abuse. I am also happy that the children’s homes are being strengthened. Children’s homes are central to ensuring legal certainty in violent and criminal proceedings. I am pleased that the prevention side is strengthened, the school and health services. I also see that several of the proposals that the Labour Party is making today in its proposal for a representative will, of course, we are already in the process of doing so. They're a little bit different, but I guess we should just be happy that we're working towards the same goal, and it's important that we have a strong political majority behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e2608	I would also like to begin by thanking the Christian People's Party for good interpellations. It has been useful to see the different sectors in context, so this is a good form of political debate in the United Kingdom as well. Meeting and having a dialogue on such important issues in this way also increases the pressure on the progress of the cases. I got a specific question from the representative Gruvan about whether a general professional ban on offenders should be imposed even in high school, as it is for kindergarten and school. I have also received a question for written answers on this topic, so I will come back to it, but just show that there may be arguments that there may be different rules for high school than it is for primary school and kindergarten. But I'm open to looking at that question again. Let me also point out that we have strengthened the requirements of the various higher education systems, of the content of kindergartens and of the pedagogical proportion of kindergartens, and we are working on a forward-looking innovation in basic education to improve the ability of children and young people to master the challenges and respect the borders of others. Also in the blue-green government platform, we show that measures will be reinforced, linked to the escalation plan against violence and abuse. We say, among other things: the issue of sexuality and marginalisation in kindergarten, and the improvement of sexual education in primary schools, as well as prevention of sexual harassment in school. This is a clear message to both owners and employees in kindergartens and schools, and we will follow this work further. We will also strengthen and maintain the pressure in the work against bullying, harassment and injuries. The fact that we are now developing network resources, so that efforts can be reinforced both in kindergartens and in schools, I believe that this can work positively. Kindergartens and schools, owners and employees have a separate responsibility in their competence work, and the development of network resources for local use, hope and think we can have an effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e2619	Thank you for a good debate. There has been a sharp increase in sexual abuse and online activity, which has been revealed in recent years. But there's reason to say that what's going on online is probably going on for quite a while without us being able to discover it to a large extent. I was visiting the police in Trøndelag and asked, "How is it possible to collect millions of pictures – millions of pictures? It's because you've been on for ten years or more. What's good now is that we're able to reveal these issues to a far greater extent than what you've done in the past. I have to say that what I've been presented in Trøndelag and elsewhere when I'm visiting is so terrible that it's hard to take it over – the chat logs and the pictures that are of children in the most terrible situations. It was said here by the representative Jacobsen that the police districts have so little room for action, and everything is so bad. I agree that we should strengthen the police further, but I'm a little tempted to ask, where have you been for the last four years? The police have had a historically high stake in the last few years. In the police districts, more than 1,200 new posts have been created, including over 2,300 new posts on a national basis. Kripos has been assigned to strengthen just this work. In recent years, we've had Operation Dark Room in Bergen, Operation Jupiter in Ålesund, and Trendelag, who's had too little recognition for the job, because that's where it started, and then you've sent things to the rest of the country. It is important to stress that the police have to control the resources forward and hire people where they see there is a need for it. If we start to control the details from here now on that you have to hire or use the resources like this, you can actually make it difficult for the districts to prioritize these environments. You have to have good police officers, you have to have computer engineers – you have to have people who are competent to do this amazingly important job. I'm full of respect for those who sit and make this daily, all the material these people have to go through. The fact that they're standing on their legs is almost impressive. Once I have met the police, I have been busy saying that you have to take care of those who are in this for the day to day. We're going to come back with a strategy. It is about preventing these people from being stopped before they commit abuse and prevention of online children and must know how to act there. It's about investigation, in the courts, we have what we need in the fight against this. It's about health-care facilities that lie under housing, but also afterwards – the after-care system here is too bad, we have to deal with that. I'm going to promise that here it won't just be words, it'll be action, but I have to have a little bit more than four weeks.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e2636	I would also like to thank you for a good discussion and try to answer some of the questions that have come directly to me. The first was from the representative Toppe who called for the word ‘statutory’ in my post. The decision-makers are, as the representative knows, part of the municipal health and care services, and the changes in the law that I referred to in my post include, of course, the decision-makers. Then it was called for the development of treatment provision for offenders, including young offenders and young people and children with problematic sexual behaviour. This is being developed, but it is one of the complex areas, because we also need to ensure that the treatment offered by us is actually a good treatment provision. That is why we have work to do to establish a knowledge base for it, which is managed by the National Centre of Competence together with the Institute of Public Health and the five regional centres of competence. Health West has been given a mandate to lead the work of establishing a treatment offer for young offenders across the country, and they also establish a clinical network for those working on this. Then they also asked questions about a question about violence and assault, for example. in the context of mental health. There's something you should do, but there's no reason to question whether it's actually done. This is precisely why one of the new stages of mental health diagnostics for both adults and children and young people will be systematically introduced into the services, so that one has a completely different opportunity to discover whether it is the underlying cause of a mental health challenge. There have been several references to a proposal from the Workers' Party, which has been promoted in the Chamber today. I have had a quick look at it, and of the 17 health-related proposals, there is reason to say that there are essentially proposals that are already under development and establishment. In my opinion, there is no reason why the Storting should re-adopt things, once it has already been adopted and in the process of being implemented by the government. That's probably often the case. When proposals are voted down in the Grand majority, it is not because one is opposed to the proposals, but because it is a work that is already in progress. I would like to conclude by saying that the representative Olsen is the exception to the fact that this has been a good debate. I do not accept that a representative of the Grand Council of Great Britain says that as Minister of Health I have seen and know that there is an infringement, but nothing has been done. That's wrong. I ask the representative to reread my post and withdraw those words, if she is an adult representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e2651	That being the case, the debate is on the agenda. 8, 9, 10 and 11 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e2668	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each of the party groups and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that – within the allocated speaking time – up to five rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e2677	The Committee has examined representative proposals for measures to strengthen the recruitment and financing of the permanent scheme in line with the interaction reform. The Committee's recommendation to you is promoted by an overall committee, while II-VII is promoted by a majority composed of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. The face of the decision-maker is usually the first meeting of people with health care, at least as much as they remember. They'll take care of 90 pst. of the population to just a little under 4 pst. of the Health Budget. They have a huge responsibility for my and your health. Many permanent workers today experience long working days, jobs in a partly demanding economic situation, and their tasks have increased. Newly trained doctors say that they are reluctant to enter such a working day. Besides, when we know that one third of today's teams are over 55 years old, we see the contours of something that can be a really big problem in a few years. The medical association believes that this dam will break within three to five years. That is why there is an alarm throughout the country. For a long time, we have been looking up from both cities and districts calling for warning of a system that is faltering. The General Medical Association is being run down by reports of concern, and the National Center for District Medicine is reporting cases from Bergen, Harstad, Skien, Stavanger, Trondheim and Sogn and Fjordane. VG writes about E.G. Heidar Olsson at Haugherud Medical Center in Oslo, who sleeps in the medical office for some nights. The recruitment failure of the permanent profession affects many hundreds of thousands of people, and it has recently been revealed that one in three municipalities has hired a general practitioner from the employment agency in the last three years. All points to the same thing: a fixed system that is so under pressure that there is a need for policy action. There's no doubt. We're facing certain challenges. There is a need to increase the rate of recruitment and ensure stability in the fixed medical system. A number of municipalities have taken action to set up educational positions or to experiment with recruitment models. The municipality of Levanger in my home region has launched a project in which the medical study at NTNU and Levanger and Namso Hospital cooperate with the municipality of Levanger – a good model where the education capacity in the districts is increased, with more practice in the study than usual, where the medical students gain experience that can help more people want to work in the community health service. ALIS-West in Bergen is another good example of a good model to implement the specialisation cycle for general medical specialists. However, municipalities need help to facilitate this, and funding for implementation needs to be provided. We need to look at the whole picture, and the Labour Party believes that an evaluation of the fixed medical system needs to go through the list length, the funding mechanism and the tasks assigned to them. Shorter patient lists will improve the quality of the firm’s services. The National Audit Office has revealed an overt trend towards referrals to specialist healthcare, and it is clear that these will be costs that we will certainly be able to recover elsewhere in healthcare. It is therefore rational to use more of the health budget on fixed doctors, which is the medical element before patients get so sick that they need hospital treatment. In view of the development in which we live longer with disease and there are several chroniclers – we know this – there has to be an improvement in the near health care. People who are well-known don't get sick in a hospital. They get sick and need medical care where they live, in their local environment. This is why it is now about securing the baselines of healthcare, the fixed medical system. Then I will address the proposals on which the Workers' Party is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e2692	The representative of Ingvild Kjerkol has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e2697	The right supports the proposal to ensure the escalation of medical coverage, especially in the fixed medical system. We need to get more professionals, both by increasing recruitment and by keeping experienced professionals in the profession. It is important to keep the width and depth of the permanent training profession, so that the subject remains attractive to apply for and become attractive. The right is concerned with better quality and service at the agencies, and we are willing to strengthen and redefine funding so that it can be achieved. For example, this can be done by classed operating grants, such as contract specialists. Such a system must look at the practice of decision-makers. There is a difference between the medical offices around which services and competences they offer. We have to keep in mind that the doctor is only half of the consultation, the patient is at least equally important. We have to wait for the evaluation to start before concluding, but an experimental scheme with a classed operating grant to see if there is any further improvement in the service and quality of the fixed medical system is an exciting idea. Changing the funding system now, however, is not the way to go. We need to evaluate, or diagnose, before we prescribe proper treatment. Like the country's law enforcement agencies, we prefer to work knowledge-based. The number of patients per doctor in Norway is decreasing. It's natural all the time the tasks have increased and the population is increasing. There's a reason to think that this will continue, and with more teams that we're voting for today, the list length per doctor will go down. An average list reduction could contribute to better quality and service. The details surrounding this need to be negotiated between the parties. It is very gratifying that the Council of State has reached an agreement with the KS and the Medical Association to re-establish tripartite cooperation between the parties to the PCM. The fixed medical system is one of the most important pillars of health care. Decision-makers have been entrusted with a number of new tasks from other parts of the healthcare system. The system must be involved in the development in order to maintain the high level of confidence of the population. We have already decided to evaluate the fixed medical system. It was actually one of the first decisions that the Storting made in this period, and it was unanimous. It's important that this is done in a thorough and proper way, so that we get the knowledge we need to be able to make good changes. At the same time, it is important that this does not take too long, and an overall committee believes that it is necessary to look at how to strengthen the scheme as a whole in the State budget for 2019 and that it is important that the Stortinget set out a direction on how to prioritise the system in the health budgets in the coming years. The evaluation should address the length of the list, the financing mechanism and the tasks of the decision-makers. Responsibilities between specialist health services and the role of decision-makers should be clarified. The aim must be to strengthen cooperation and to have a closer dialogue on the challenges of the fixed medical system, so that everyone has a firm commitment to the future. It is worrying that the majority of people today are making decisions that we do not know the consequences of. ALIS-West is a good measure, but it is not necessarily the best measure across the country. The fact that the bulk of the population now decides to lock on to a particular model before the evaluation of the fixed medical scheme has been completed is alarming. Taking decisions to show that you're doing something is not necessarily good for the situation and may not solve the challenges to the decision-makers around our country. The last set-aside scheme is that the Storting adopts measures without sufficient knowledge of what it will look like in practice. I dare say that the whole Storting will maintain and strengthen the system. We do this by ensuring recruitment and prevention of non-response, maintaining the influence of doctors over their own working life, ensuring that doctors have sufficient time for patients and patient-related tasks, and that they can work under safe working conditions. Norway shall be proud of the fixed medical system and the status of the general medicinal product. If we are still to be able to do that, we must prevent fragmentation of the subject. Right will maintain today's role as a carrier in health care and maintain nutrition as the main form of determination in the future. We in the Right look forward to continuing to work to secure the fixed medical system, and we are meeting a good cooperation on this. First, however, we need to carry out a thorough evaluation of the fixed medical system.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e2720	The system, introduced in 2001, has been essentially a successful one. The purpose, which was that everyone should receive good quality health services at the right time and give every person living in Norway a permanent general practitioner to stick to, has been followed up. At the time of the implementation of the inter-action reform in 2012, the importance of fixed mechanisms for health services was clearly anchored. They should be a fixed point in a health service where efforts were put at the lowest possible level of treatment and one should work with prevention. The growth of the medical profession was to be concentrated in the municipalities. This would allow for increased efforts to be made by priority groups on the lists of fixed assets. In addition, there was to be a strengthening of general medicine in the public — as in hospitals, health centres, school health services and prison health services. The message referred to a departmentally lowered professional group, which identified a need for 2,000 more medical work in municipalities in the period 2009-2015 to achieve this, i.e. an increase of 50 pst. The final evaluation of the interaction reform carried out by the National Audit Office shows that from 2011–2014 there were almost 490 more medical posts in the municipalities, while nearly 1 300 more medical posts in hospitals – i.e. no larger growth in the number of medical posts in primary hospitals than in specialist hospitals. However, the report showed that municipalities have taken over patients who were previously in hospitals. It showed that municipalities have slightly increased capacity and strengthened competence after the implementation of the interaction reform, but that there has been a particular decrease in the number of older people. Overall, the number of days spent in hospitals has been reduced by 308 000 between 2010 and 2014, half of which was for people over 80 years of age. This has challenged the stipulations. We've known for a long time that our medical system is under pressure, and that she has a recruitment defect. This is particularly common in districts, but now it has been a problem in the press area and throughout the country. VG did a survey in the summer that showed this. More people went out and said that the system would be able to break up. And the legends with which VG spoke pointed to the change that just happened with the interaction reform, but they also showed that medical innovations and new treatment methods put on more work and also to the developments in society in general with several elderly people living at home who are determined to take responsibility for. It's not just VG that has given us this information. For many years, the National Centre for District Medicine has pointed out similar recruitment challenges to the Storting. They have shown large and systematic differences in the length of a fixed contract – short-term in small municipalities, longer time in larger municipalities. In general, there is a trend where many permits are available for too long. It is also the case that the regulations we have today prescribe a whole range of tasks that are in the care-for-responsibilities of the patients on the list. They shall carry out home visits, have a follow-up meeting on sick messages, etc. In addition, there is an extensive documentation work in recent years – absenteeism certificates, driver’s licence certificates, other documentation work on health insurance, etc., which causes many corpses to have very many hours of extra work. I know a regular who said she had to go down to 50 pst. position to be able to work 100 pst. Today there is no consistency between the capacity of the fixed medical device and tasks and responsibilities. That's the main problem. That is why the Centre Party has put forward this proposal to strengthen the recruitment and financing of the permanent arrangements in line with the intentions of the cooperation reform. We've been told by a conundrum that the number of regulars in the general medical service should now be escalating. We have also received multiple numbers to review the funding mechanism and reduce the list length. ALIS and educational settings are important, because we need to start recruiting. There are also other proposals for decisions — for example to have a medical case. With this I take up the suggestions that the Center Party is on.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e2743	The representative, Kjersti Toppe, has drawn up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e2748	I think everyone in this room is very much in agreement that the fixed medical system is something you need to look at. It is also why it was decided, quite shortly after the elections, that one should actually go through and investigate the fixed medical system. There's a lot of challenges there. Something you might want to bring with you is part of things you might think it's okay that doctors take responsibility for, and some of the things you think it's okay to put on, because it's important things. The consequences are, as we see now, that some determinators feel that they spend a lot of resources and a lot of time on many other things, such as bureaucracy, etc., which are not patient treatment. I think it's important to have this review. The decision maker is a very important part of healthcare. That's the first line -- the one that most patients meet first. It is important that the doctor can have good contact and dialogue with the patient, see the patient and talk to the patient, in order to be able to give the right advice, whether the patient should continue to be treated or can be treated directly by the prescribing physician. This is incredibly important. For the Advancement Party, some of the most important things are to ensure that patients receive good and proper treatment so that they can get help and get well as quickly as possible. I have been attending meetings with the Trender uprising, which are tyrants who are very active and very clear on what they think should be in order to meet the challenges that many tyrants are in the middle of. I think that's very good. I also believe it is important to have the investigation carried out before deciding which medicine to give to the patient – that is, how to ensure that in the future you get a good set-up that you can trust and that will take care of patients in a good way. When it comes to some of the proposals that a majority is now in favour of, I think it may well be that it is natural and right to do something about the future, but that the best thing would be to get the investigation first and then decide what action to take and how to proceed. That is why I very much agree with what Sveinung Stenland said. I think it's a good starting point to make sure that we have a good fixation in the future, and that patients have great confidence in the system – I feel that you have today. And not least, if you have a good first-line service, a good set-up, you can also save the specialist health service and society for a lot of expenses. This is why it is very good to bet on society — and not least on the patient, who can get help and treatment quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e2763	The decision-making party for the left-hand side continues, this time by taking action on the right-hand side's votes, in order to improve the determination system and ensure more time for each patient. We adopt, among other things, reducing the average list length so that there is more time for each individual person to seek medical attention. We adopt fixed remuneration for general practitioners in the field of specialisation, and we adopt several educational positions in general medicine – several new doctors. I want to add, on behalf of SV, that we also need many more nurses and health professionals, but we have to deal with this in another case. These decisions will provide better recruitment and better time for each patient. It's said from the right that the investigation is important and that we have to wait for it. The investigation is well and good, but we do not have to be completely paralysed simply because the bureaucracy in Norway is working. An example of disease was used. Yes, if you are about to get cold, it is possible to take the neck tablets while waiting to go to a doctor. We know that these are good measures, and who knows, maybe these measures themselves make us solve the situation. I don't think so. I don't think so. We need the investigation, but we don't have to be paralysed. SV believes that we also have to dry up thinking about how we use the money we have. It is very easy for us here at Stortinget to put documentation requirements into buckets and buckets. But it also gives much more bureaucracy. I think we have to dry down and think more carefully about what requirements we set for health professionals. We in SV believe that doctors should spend the most of their time helping patients, not filling in paperwork. We want regulars to have time and trust to do what they're best at. SV wants to propose a trust reform, and we are promoting proposals here, together with the Centre Party, to reduce red tape through less documentation work. I am disappointed that the parties on the right, who claim to oppose bureaucracy, are voting against proposals that can actually reduce bureaucracy and documentation requirements in the fixed medical system. We have to follow up on the fact that the system of being self-employed works for a lot of people, we have to keep it, but it does not work for everyone. If we're going to recruit more teams, they're going to need good jobs. Young people increasingly want fixed wages, full employment and fixed income, as opposed to what some of the NHO claim in the media. We even have numbers for this in terms of the decision-makers. In 2012, from which the last numbers are from, it was just 36 pst. by the decision-makers who wanted to be self-employed. Several want fixed salary, fixed income. That's good, because it makes them dare to alert, and they can spend their time on patients instead of doing paperwork and nutrition. We also want to continue the system of private practice, but create more options for policymakers, so that they are more able to choose whether they will have a fixed salary and a fixed income or do business. So the decision confirmation continues. The decision is at the heart of the health system. We would like to commend the Centre Party in particular for the proposal – and the Christian People's Party, which was promoted and adopted the important proposal in the debate on the throne. Together, on the left, we take responsibility for a good fixed medical system. I'm addressing proposal No. 4, from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e2784	The representative Nicholas Wilkinson has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e2789	The fact that the fixed medical system has been – and is – an important system is common to all. The decision-makers have a high level of trust. It is of great value to know the disease history of patients, and it is safe for patients to know their treatment. As we know, trust and good relations are important in all disease treatment. Thus, the system is a system we have to take care of, but it also has to change to a new era. It's e.g. a well-known case that many fixed doctors have a way of offering e-consultation. We need gatekeepers in the specialist health service to ensure that it is not overloadd. The decision-makers follow up 90 pst. by the patient – as has been said here – for 3-4 pst. of the health budget, and then it goes without saying what a central function they have in order that the costs of health care should not run smoothly. Ensuring a good fixed medical service is therefore important in order to safeguard the overall resources of society. As soon as the Stortinget opened its last harvest, a proposal was made for an evaluation of the fixed medical system, a proposal that received unanimous support. When we deal with this proposal today, work has already begun on the evaluation, and the Minister of Health must be commended for the work that has been done, among other things. by restoring tripartite cooperation with the KS and the Medical Association. This is fully in line with the JELUEA declaration, where improvement, modernisation, enhanced recruitment and precisely evaluation are important keywords. In this work, the government has for a long time supported the Left's view that knowledge gained through cooperation between the parties should be taken into account. On this basis, I would argue that many of the proposals that get the majority here today are less knowledge-based. The 2009 interaction reform, which entered into force in 2012, has an important main objective of which it is difficult to disagree, namely that we need to prevent more in order to treat faster those who need it the most — thereby ensuring a sustainable health service. At that time, the Left warned that it was a little naive to believe that well over 400 municipalities could respond to the challenge of better quality in future health and care services. I think we could say that time has shown that we were right. We need fewer and stronger municipalities to ensure an equivalent and good offer to the entire population. The need for a municipal reform was precarious ten years ago, and so on. Unfortunately, there has been little drachma in particular from the proposers to the present Document 8 – and from the Workers' Party – on this quality reform, not least in order to ensure good health care throughout the country. It is good that an overall increase today calls on the government to follow up the interaction reform and ensure the correct level of health resources in the primary health service. This work will be linked to the follow-up to the Primary Health Communication and the Public Health Communication, both addressed in 2015, which will set a course for the health-promoting communities of the future. It will have to be about prevention in the future. We have our own public health law, which clearly states in its purpose that it should: ‘ensure that municipalities, county councils and state health authorities take action and coordinate their activities in public health activities; [[...]] [[...]] It is therefore historic and a milestone that we now have a Minister of Public Health, one who can think completely across sectors and levels of government, and who can follow both the law and the big message. I am pleased that the understanding of how profitable it is to prevent seems to have got a foothold – even among our leading economists. I would like to remind you that the Jeløya platform repeats in several places that there is to be a commitment to prevention and early action, and that will have to be reflected in the budgets ahead. This has been among the leading champions of the Left. This work includes a fixed medical system that has been modernised and improved for both doctors and patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e2810	In my view, the fixed medical system itself is the hub of Health-Norway. A well-functioning fixed medical system is essential for the effective functioning of municipal health and care services, but also of specialist health services and other health services. But first of all, a well-functioning fixed medical system is absolutely crucial for each of us when we get sick. For the whole population, it is crucial. In October the government decided to evaluate the fixed medical system. The size now deals with the matter from the Centre Party, and the Committee has given some leads and views on the evaluation and on the need for change. An overall committee recommends to the Stortinget that we today ask the government to follow up the interaction reform and, in an appropriate manner, ensure the escalation of medical coverage in the primary health service in general and for the fixed medical system in particular. I think that is an incredibly important signal to Kommune-Norge, because the interaction reform has been demanding for many municipalities, while many municipalities took many of the tasks on a tight arm. One considers that there is a need to adjust and evaluate a scheme that was intended to be the best possible response at the lowest level. It is also part of the fixed medical system, and that is why this is so important. In addition, the Christian People's Party has made proposals to ask the government to look at the funding mechanism and reduce the average list length. This Christian People's Party believes is wise because many doctors gradually have demanding patients. Due to the interaction reform, many patients are to be followed up over time, complex patients who need more time than usual. Then we must also be able to look at the possibilities of the financial instrument. So it's not sure that we're going to do it all over again. We're going to keep it good and take away what maybe hasn't worked. The Christian People's Party is also concerned that we must ensure a gradual escalation of the number of educational positions in general medicine. There may be different models to provide professional support and social rights, but the Christian People's Party believes that recruiting and having good educational positions is one of the things that need to be involved in solving that challenge. The proposal for ALIS as a specialisation option I believe shows a system that can operate specialisation and ensure a service across the country, but I am absolutely convinced that there are also other good measures that can be used. The point must be that we reach the goal we've set, to get more teammates. There has recently been a major debate on medical care systems and on the watch regimes. I am pleased with what I see the Council of State has done today, where he says he wants to postpone some of the requirements of the medical watch and rear guard system, precisely because one sees that this can be included and put the brake blocks on for those who want to go into a fixed medical system. That's what the Christian People's Party believes is wise. The Christian People's Party is also involved in proposing to look at the evaluation of the tournament scheme and ask for the necessary proposals for changes and economic incentives to strengthen the recruitment of medical students to local hospitals and deprived areas in the municipal health service. If we have a goal of having as good as equal healthcare throughout the country, but we also know that distance and time make it possible for a person to get a worse service in the districts at times than for those who live at the centre, it is important that those who are going to be there have good competence. There is a need for a thorough evaluation. At the same time, today's situation suggests that some things need a quick follow-up to the decision made in the Stortinget case. In line with what the Greatness did, the Christian People's Party hopes that during the autumn we can look forward to further dealing with a matter on this, because it is important to be able to move on in Health-Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e2831	Representatives express impatience when proposing measures to strengthen recruitment and financing of the permanent scheme. The Committee's position shows that several proposals have broad support. Such a central part of public service provision needs adjustments as society evolves. The type of adjustment requires both an in-depth investigation of possible consequences and not least good cooperation between the parties. The size joined the content of the primary health message in the previous period. The Communication provided an overview of the challenges of primary health services in the extension of the interaction reform and the needs of the future. The system needs to be improved and modernised, which is also part of the new government platform. We have to take care of what works, take things in the right order and know the consequences of what we're doing. We have started an evaluation of the fixed medical system, as the Stortinget decided in the autumn – in fact on the same day that I had invited the Medical Association to agree that we should start the evaluation. The KS and the Medical Association, the Ombudsman and others have provided useful input into the evaluation. Several important issues that need to be highlighted include the consequences of the scheme for permanent practitioners, for patients, for the municipality responsible for care, for the cooperating services in the municipalities and for the specialist health services. Good evaluation is important. The result will therefore not be available until 2019. We have established tripartite cooperation between the parties to engage in dialogue on challenges and solutions to the fixed medical system. A new education project for specialisation in general medicine, ALIS-Vest, has also been launched. Experience from this project will be important in assessing possible national broadening. But not everyone agrees that this is necessarily the right model. There is a need to discuss with the parties whether these are reasonable adjustments and there is a need to look at the actual results before a conclusion is reached. In 2018, we started testing new ways of organising the fixed medical service, including: primary health teams, where the doctor has several professional groups to cooperate with, initially nurses, to be tested in several municipalities. Experience will provide us with useful knowledge of the changes in organisation and funding that will contribute more to decision-makers. Like the proposers and the committee, I am concerned with the competence of doctors. Specialist training for doctors is under conversion. Although the tour service is now the first part of specialist medical training, we have chosen to maintain the requirement that newly trained doctors who are to specialise work for six months in the municipal health service before further specialisation. Primary health care doctors need skills that can meet their needs. We have therefore called for specialisation in general medicine for all regular doctors, and we have to put in place good structures to implement this in the municipalities. Provision for specialist training in general medical practice shall be made at the hearing of this spring. The Acute Medicine Regulation was adopted in 2015. Some minor adjustments to the regulation have recently been consulted. The Health Directorate has provided an evaluation report related to the competence requirements of the Regulation, which was laid down in 2015, which is scheduled to enter into force on 1 May of this year. The concerns that came out there, I take seriously. That is why I have decided to extend the transitional regime for the requirement of basic competence for doctors who are to have an unattended watch until 1 January 2020. I fully agree that it is necessary to consider changes to the rear guard system. The extension of the transitional regime will give us time to review the regulation and also propose amendments. The government has continued and increased the grant for the recruitment of doctors, but it must also be organised for professional development and professional environments, cf. the Committee's desire for educational positions. The government shall follow the decisions taken in relation to the aggregates. We will do so in cooperation with the parties and on the basis of evaluations and knowledge. It is important to me that the offers are also anchored with the Medical Association and with the municipalities through the KS. Several of the measures adopted have budgetary implications, which we also need to come back to. We need a lot of doctors in the municipalities. The competence of doctors must be consistent with the tasks they have, they must have time to do the job within reasonable working hours, and the citizens must receive the medical assistance they need. Then I fully agree that we should occasionally be impatient, but impatience can also lead completely wrong places, on which the representative Wilkinson's council was a good example, when he suggested that if he got cold, he would take a necklace, and then go to the firm. It's probably the kind of hasty decisions that make the decision-makers get too much to do, because if you're cold, you might want to take a neck-tablet, but at least don't burden the decision-maker with anything he can't do anything about. [[muttering in the hall]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e2861	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e2866	Nearly a year ago, in April last year, the Workers' Party submitted a proposal to ensure the permanent medical system and recruitment of permanent doctors. At that time, the Minister of Health said that he was satisfied that he had succeeded in ‘recruiting more permanent staff than the population growth requires’, and referred to the primary health message, which must be said to refer to the fixed medical system as a scheme and to threats to it. The majority voted in favour of the proposal. Now, fortunately, the seriousness has reached the Council of State. He has reestablished the tripartite cooperation, he has launched an evaluation after a unanimous increase has ordered it, and he wants to secure the scheme. What has happened in the last six months that the Council of State did not know in ours, all the time an overall doctor and the country has reported these concerns for a long time?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e2871	I think the representative might have a slightly selective history. It's absolutely right that I'm glad that we've recruited more tyrants than what population development suggests. It also means that the average schedules have become shorter – that is good – but there is a development that needs to be reinforced, which I also believe will be the decision of the Stortinge today. But I also hope that the Storting believes that this is going to happen through better recruitment, not just by cutting the lists of decision-makers, because in that case it will dramatically exacerbate the recruitment situation in the districts. As far as the evaluation is concerned, it is quite right, as I said, that the Storting has unanimously adopted an evaluation. It was the same day that we met with the Medical Association to agree with them on an evaluation, precisely in the light of the challenges we had seen in the scheme. And tripartite cooperation will be important precisely to discuss actions. But then it is wise to use the tripartite cooperation and not jump to action.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e2878	The representative Kjerkol does not have selective memory. As far as I have it, I chose the Council of State, because I read directly from the Council of State's letter of reply to that proposal in ours. Now, the Council of State has made a five-minute post, where he supports a lot of the proposals that have been proposed, and he also claims to be dealing with several of them. In our response, when we raised this concern about the permanent medical scheme, the Council of State also referred to a grant scheme for recruiting permanent doctors and for empowering measures, a grant scheme that the Council of State itself closed in 2016. So my question to the Council of State is: What short-term measures does the Council of State see separately within his action room, which is significant, in 2018?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e2893	One of the proposals adopted today is to extend the ALIS scheme. I would like to remind the representative that it was I, as a health minister, who made sure that the funding of the ALIS scheme came into place, precisely because we needed to look at new ways of recruiting permanent staff. But unlike what the majority say, I'm not quite sure that the scheme is the one we're going to date nationally, because we're just using it to gain experience, have knowledge and discuss with the parties whether that's the right way to do it. But my idea of the arrangement is that it works very well. And of course, when I helped to get it in place, I'm not negative that the Storting is impatient about the extension of that scheme or similar arrangements – in these days an extension of 13.9 million. SEK for recruitment grants to municipalities, with deadline for application on 1 April, and next week we will have the first meeting of tripartite cooperation, where we will also discuss other measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e2898	On 19 June this year we had a debate on a proposal from the Labour Party to improve the recruitment of permanent workers. Then the state councils from the pulpit said: ‘Norway is well defined.’ In the written reply to the Committee, the Council of State reiterated that ‘we have succeeded in recruiting more permanent staff than the population growth requires’, and that ‘a sufficient number of doctors are important, but much of the work currently carried out by decision-makers can be carried out equally well or better by nurses’. He pointed to the primary health teams. Does the Council of State mean, as he said in June, that much of the work that the residents do today is to be done by nurses?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e2910	I mean the exact same thing today that I meant in June, that much of the work that doctors do today can also be done by nurses. We will also be tested in the primary health teams – not least as regards the follow-up of chronicler groups, which we can improve the follow-up of through this project. It is quite right that Norway has a good fixation coverage. It's absolutely right that we've also managed to recruit more ligands than the population development suggests. But that doesn't mean that I don't take seriously the feedback that the decision-makers very clearly provide, that their work situation has become more demanding. Although on average they have fewer patients on the lists, they feel that the working day is more demanding. It says that many of them are not least due to the interaction reform and the new tasks they have been given through it. That is something we are now getting answers to, through an evaluation such as: contains an assessment of the time spent by doctors in their meetings with patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e2917	Today, there are some people who say that the scheme has major recruitment challenges. But on 19 June we had a completely different debate, where this was trivialized by the Council of State and the Government Party. This was June 19. Then VG came last summer with the survey where one showed that half of the municipalities in Norway have major recruitment challenges. What I can't help but worry about is, how could the Council of State and his department not know what we're now discussing here? How could one stand in June and not know – and on the contrary answer that we have a good fixation, and now we are going to get primary health teams, as an answer to what needs to be improved?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e2925	Again, everything the representative refers to is correct. It's also important. And that's not de minimis, it's simply to establish a situation. Therefore, it is also important that we constantly work to improve the recruitment of the fixed medical system – that is where we have the main challenge. We have to make sure that new generations of doctors who train want to work in this system, because that's the way we can reduce the workload of the individual employee. The decision makers with whom I have met say they have a busy everyday life, they have received several tasks. But they're also very clear that they think it's very right that those tasks are just anchored in the fixed medical system, because these are patients they want to meet.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e2932	Thank you for the correction – of course people shouldn't go to the board if they just get cold. But if you get seriously ill, I hope that people try to treat themselves while they're waiting to get a place at the coroner's, because it's possible to do things for their health without being completely done with all treatment. We're here today because the fixed medical system is cracking in the joints. There is a lack of recruitment, people withdraw from the profession, people are exhausted and sick. Knowledge is good. I agree with the Minister of Health that you have to talk to the social partners, but it seems to the Minister of Health that we do not think on the red-green side. We have a long tradition of talking to the social partners. The proposals we are now adopting, against the right's votes, are supported by the Medical Association, they are supported by the decision-makers, they are supported by the social partners. It even says on Facebook, where the Medical Association has thanked the left side for the decisions we are now making to ensure recruitment for the permanent profession. I wonder if the Minister of Health really believes that it is always wrong to promote policies and decisions when an investigation is in progress, and would like to know if the Minister of Health believes that this should be followed up throughout the ageing period – no new policy as long as it is an investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e2941	I have full respect for the fact that the Stortinge is promoting suggestions and talking to people. What one also needs to be aware of is that, nevertheless, we have an investigative institute in Norway that allows us to have some rules on how questions are addressed before it is implemented. That's what I'm saying, of course I'm going to follow up the decisions that the Storting is making today, but I'm also concerned that the parties should be heard – all parties. For example, the decision to make the ALIS system national, a highly debated proposal – including among the decision-makers – is not entirely convinced that all municipalities believe that it is the best model. I am concerned that democracy is not just about the fact that a great majority of people decide things, democracy is also about those affected by the decisions being given the opportunity to comment on proposals before they are implemented in a serious and good way. That's one of the problems I have -- to make sure it happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e2950	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e2957	I have to comment on what the representatives of the Right and the Advance Party said, that the proposals that we get multiple numbers for today, except for the first one about stepping up medical work, are destructive and not knowledge-based. I'm wondering what kind of proposals by the others that are being adopted are damaging to the determination system. Is it that one should evaluate the funding mechanism that is destructive and not knowledge-based? Is it true that the list length that is not a knowledge-based one should be reduced when the representatives themselves say that when you increase the number of fixed lists, the list is reduced? Is it that we should have a gradual increase in the number of educational positions in general medicine, where a look at different models of professional support and social dishes? Is it devastating? Is it not knowledge based? Is it to make the ALIS scheme specialising in a national scheme – that is, to make it mandatory for it to be used, but there should be a provision for fixed wages for all, those who want it – that are destructive, with the unlikely good results it has had? Or is it that we get multiple numbers for a case of improvement in the medical system that also contributes to recruitment to the fixed medical system? Is it devastating for the medical system that we get a case of medical care? Is it not knowledge based? And the last one is that we've got multiple numbers to ask the government to propose changes and economic incentives to strengthen recruitment of medical students to local hospitals and recruitment weak areas in the municipal health service. How can this not be knowledge-based? How could this be damaging to the fixed medical system? These proposals should be included in the Right Party and the Progress Party, because many of them indicate that a requesting government comes back with a case, as a medical officer, and like this with recruitment to specially postponed municipalities, where we ask the government to come to us with proposals for educational settings. One might be dissenting politically, but that one uses the card that this is not knowledge-based, I don't think it's right. That's how in this case here -- we had a case in June about exactly the same thing. Now, the majority of people are driving to get a better fixation in Norway, and I'm very happy that we've got the opposition to gather. I could wish that the position were on several proposals, because it had started the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e2964	In many places, there has been a centralisation of both medical services, ambulances and emergency services. This threatens the right of the population to good preparedness and health throughout the country. The government has now chosen to push its own problem of securing enough doctors specializing in general medicine on guard, above all, according to the NRK. This will be a challenge in the future, too, and not only now when you want to introduce this regulation. In 2015, it was found that eight out of ten medical officers had only one doctor on guard, and only one out of five medical officers have organized the rearguard for a doctor on guard. I guess there's a reason to assume that these numbers haven't improved much. The fact that the fixed medical system has had challenges, especially in the districts, has been known for some years. The new thing is that you also wear in so-called press and urban areas. Several parties have repeatedly pointed this out to the government without adequate follow-up. The interaction reform strengthened and clearly anchored the importance of the fixed medical system for healthcare. The decision-makers were to be a fixed point of reference for a healthcare service where efforts were put at the lowest possible level. It was in the communication that was the basis, among other things. Note that there was a great need for more annual works. This has not been followed up. The patient and user representatives have also addressed their concerns about the fixed medical system. According to Meld. St. 13 for 2016-2017, the Ombudsman receives many requests where one or more of the objectives of the fixed medical device are not met from the patient’s point of view. It's worrying. Lack of availability and opportunity to have an hourly contract within the necessary and reasonable time is a frequent topic. In some parts of the country, medical recruitment is challenging, and penetration is high. This challenge is increasing. Therefore, patients are more likely to have to deal with many different doctors in a relatively short period of time. Several of the ombudsmen’s proposals to strengthen the scheme are now given a majority. Even if technology goes forward, people who are good doctors will still be needed. Then we have to make sure that the doctors get time to be doctors. The decision-makers have a comprehensive responsibility for the citizens through the regulations, and several have agreed that today's list of requirements for the decision-makers leads to too many hours of paperwork after the actual working day is over. An increasing and extensive documentation work, such as absence certificates, driving licence certificates and documentation work related to the drawing of private health insurance, is also reported. The development of the fixed medical scheme also concerns the local authority’s membership organisation, KS. I am therefore pleased that many of the proposals now have a majority, and that the government will follow up, but would like to see more progress, in particular with the proposal on the goal of reducing non-patient work and more medical work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e2979	Right will wait, as mentioned, for the results of the monitoring and evaluation of the permanent scheme. Such a central part of the public service supply as the fixed one actually stands for needs to be adjusted in line with the developments we see in society. Such adjustments require both thorough disclosure of possible consequences and cooperation between the parties. However, it is also necessary to distinguish between those measures which already have a good enough knowledge base for implementing and putting into action, and those which obviously require a more thorough assessment. We are in a hurry to strengthen the system, and in the Right we see the need for a clear signal of desired development. The system needs to be improved and modernised, which the government also points to in the platform. We must take care of what works, and we must also be sure of the consequences of the measures to be implemented. The government has started an evaluation of the fixed scheme, just as the size decided in the fall. In fact, we need this knowledge to be able to make the right decisions. The population is getting older, and the need for medical services is definitely increasing. That's why we have to make sure that it's attractive to be fixed. This is not just a responsibility of the state. It is also a responsibility for the municipalities. Local authorities not only have a duty to get their citizens to decide, but they also have the opportunity to do so in new ways. Most of the individuals are interested in using e-consultation, and many are already doing so. Changes in technology and innovation in service design can provide new ways of providing health services. The financial arrangements must then also be adapted to support new and effective ways of organising the provision of services so as to ensure a holistic patient trajectory. The decision-maker has an incredibly important role to play in contributing to patient experience becoming a seamless healthcare service.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e2996	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e3012	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that – within the allocated speaking time – up to five rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e3021	Economic governance systems have great power over how it works in hospitals and elsewhere in health care. How much money are hospitals going to give themselves, with professional knowledge, i.e. framework funding? And how much will they get for the number of operations – not quality, but quantity – through input-driven funding? Are we going to have market-driven hospitals, or are we going to have professional management of hospitals and specialist health services? Should we give priority to patients who produce DRG scores, or should we give priority to those patients who professional decisions think need help first? An overall committee endorses the observation that where there is a conflict between good professional judgement and the financial systems, the professional assessments are to be followed. It is worth noting, then, that hearing replies are almost unambiguous in their scepticism about effort-driven financing, precisely because they override good professional decisions. The right side of this room should decide who they want to listen to. Because if they want to listen to the professionals who work in the specialist health service, then they are almost unambiguous in their criticism that input-driven funding overrides good professional decisions, as the right-hand side has also said that they believe it should not. So for mental health protection: a diagnosis of mental health protection is something quite different than a diagnosis of somatic disease. It's a bag name. A conversation with one with schizophrenia is not one thing; it's a large range of tasks that have to be done. Children and young people in the Change Factory warn in their consultation response that the way we organise it today, with input-driven funding, push diagnostic labels on children too early and make them sicker. This makes help work less well. It's the unanimous condemnation of professionals in the Norwegian Psychologists' Association, and it should make an impression. Nevertheless, the right-hand side chooses to vote against the trade union council, even though in the previous debate they felt that the trade union councils were important to listen to. In applying input-driven financing at department and hospital level, it was never planned that the DRG system and input-driven funding should be used down at department and hospital level. It was to be used for planning and managing at an overall level, we can read in the case papers from when it was introduced. This is a very bureaucratic system, which, when close to patients, at department level, overrides professional decisions. And it's especially important when it's so close to the patients. The centre party, Christian People's Party and SV follow the good professional advice that recommends not to bring this down to the department level. SV primarily wants to cut the market from hospitals, because we believe that wise professionals should decide, not effort-driven funding and funding systems imposed by national teams. We do not get a majority in favour of that, and that is why we want to inform ourselves that we will vote in a subsidiary way for 40 pst. financing. That is, we're getting a majority in this room now to dampen market management in the specialist health service. This is good news for professionals who want to make good professional decisions. The right side said in the government statement that they want to assess an increase, but again luckily the red and centre parties – the majority – stop their proposal. The right-hand side supports the observation that professional decisions should not be overrun by the funding system. Therefore, even if they vote against it, I assume that they are happy with our proposal – to evaluate the response-driven funding mechanism and how it affects health care priorities. I want to bring up all the proposals SV are on, and I would like to say in particular that we are very pleased with the representative proposal from the Central Party. Today, we are finally reducing the market management of hospitals and strengthening the professional decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e3040	The representative Nicholas Wilkinson has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e3045	The funding systems in our hospitals should support good professional judgements, not overrule them. The decisions should ensure the best possible health in an economically sustainable healthcare system. The Working Party believes that the resources allocated to specialist health care should be used as far as possible for the treatment of patients and for prevention and, as far as possible, for administration. Of course. However, funding systems must also support good and effective patient treatment. The funding systems are funds, not targets themselves, and if there is a conflict between good professional assessments and the funding systems, the funding systems need to be modified are not the professional assessments. Intervention-driven funding was introduced to stimulate cost-effective patient treatment. This was also the reason why the government of Solberg used the increased share of input-driven financing from 40 to 50 pst. in 2014. If there is a lack of coherence between the incentives in the funding system and the needs of patients, there may be unfortunate adjustments that may result in poorer treatment for patients or more costly treatment because treatment may nevertheless be economically beneficial for the hospital economy. It does not promote good treatment practices – or good financial management, for that matter. The Labour Party has therefore wanted to dampen the market thinking in hospitals by keeping the proportion of input-driven funding down somewhat, and in the Committee's position it becomes the majority to dampen this to a 40/60 ratio, as the parties vote subsidiaryly for it. We think that's good. Government parties want to go the opposite way and increase the proportion beyond 50 pst, as at present. For the majority of the Storting, which consists of the opposition parties, this is an important victory. The size is responsible for choosing funding systems that ensure good treatment and economic sustainability. Intervention-driven funding provides funding based on the average cost of treating a diagnostic-related group. It brings economic benefits to those who manage to streamline the treatments in order to become more economically efficient. It is also easier to achieve this for simpler and more limited suffering than for more complex suffering, for chroniclers, and to promote the good patient processes does not necessarily serve this purpose. We are therefore very concerned that good improvements were made to this hospital income system, which is thus better served by purpose, and which promotes good practice and good treatment of the entire human being in a patient course. As regards the use of input-driven funding in psychiatry, the Workers’ Party shares the concerns of the Hearing Officers that treatment is counterproductive to measures that are not of benefit to the patient. It is complicated to estimate the cost of treating a diagnosis of mental illness. The Labour Party therefore believes that input-driven funding should be phased out in the field of mental health protection and that, rather, framework funding should be used in the absence of better systems. The diagnosis of psychiatry is consistent with the signs of symptoms, as opposed to what it is in the somatic state. They're also often cause-based, and this makes psychiatry particularly poorly suited to the system we have with input-driven funding. Diagnosis in mental health protection has never been intended to be used as an administrative tool to pay grants for operations. Intervention-driven funding in mental health protection actually testifies to a lack of understanding of psychiatric diagnosis and the practices of psychiatry. It is important to pursue continuous work to improve the quality and effectiveness of specialist health services. Because the funding system is such an important management tool in the specialist healthcare service, this tool needs to be continuously improved. Therefore, we believe it is important that the government also follow up the recommendations of the Priority Committee to evaluate how input-driven funding affects priority decisions in hospitals. And then I'll bring up proposal no. 2 on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e3066	The representative of Ingvild Kjerkol has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e3071	We all have a responsibility for the efficient use of the resources we grant. I expect that as a resident, and at the same time it is necessary for our welfare society to be sustainable. Our financial instruments must build up under this. It does today’s combination of framework financing and activity-based financing. The ISF is not a prioritisation system. Regional health enterprises are free to adapt the total funding of health enterprises and private institutions with which they have an agreement, in line with the needs and priorities of the region. It is part of the responsibility of regional health establishments to decide on the appropriate organisation and financing of the services for which they are responsible. Intervention-driven funding, ISF, stimulates cost-effective patient treatment. At the same time, activity-based schemes must facilitate the provision of services by regional health establishments in line with the desired priorities and professional needs. A significant development work related to the ISF shall be carried out during 2018 in order to better support good professional practice and overall patient trajectory. The Health Directorate has been given the task of specifying measures that contribute to the development of the ISF in a more longitudinal direction. One example is from Stavanger University Hospital. They have worked for several patients to be completed in reception, and not admitted to the hospital. They have pointed out that this results in significantly lower counts in terms of DRG points. This is something we obviously need to look at. This shows that we need to adapt the scheme to new and better ways of working. Technological development and innovation in service design enable new and efficient ways of organising service provision within the service. The ISF needs to be adapted to support such a development. The aim is to develop financial instruments in such a way that the service does not experience obstacles to organising the process and to optimise patient care. In the treatment of mental and drug dependence, a continuous patient cycle is important. There are also often complex causalities underlying health challenges, which make it difficult to make correct and accurate diagnostics. Too many and very often traumatised patients will need lifelong and comprehensive treatment, which the funding system also needs to take into account. It is therefore good that work is under way to investigate whether the financing arrangements of the specialist health service could turn into a more longitudinal scheme. It seems like you think that the whole system is based on effort, and so now the majority obviously wants less than half of the funding to be distributed according to the type of workload and costs the hospital has. The majority may now weaken the incentives of hospitals to treat more patients. ISF contributes to risk-sharing between regional health establishments and the country. This means that the state takes part in the responsibility for the uncertainty associated with changes in the number of patients and patient composition. When the ISF share falls, more of the risk is passed on to health businesses. In a framework funding system, health regions need to bear all uncertainties. If hospitals treat more patients than foreseen, the grants to the health region will be higher, but where the activity is lower than foreseen, the grants will be lower. The ISF also contributes to transparency about resource use, so that one can follow the priorities of healthcare. Thus, the DRG system is not just a tariff system for financing; it is also an important instrument for statistics and governance information, so that we, who are to govern the country, have insight into how resources are used. We are clear that our objectives for hospital policy are shorter waiting times and more transparent processes in the patient’s healthcare. That's why we're voting against reduced ISF in somatic matters, and we're voting against the removal of ISF in mental health protection, but we accept that there's another majority in the hall. Then I hope they make sense by another crossroads.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e3088	Now I'm going to talk a little crazy. The center party doesn't think there's any reason to fund health services in society in different ways. At present, healthcare services in Norwegian municipalities are mainly funded through a framework transfer to municipalities, while specialist services are funded through a combination of framework funding and input-driven funding for regional health care providers. We fear that the input-driven funding of hospitals causes the system to put too much emphasis on ignition, and that seen the market cycle in a system we believe is unfortunate for the priorities of the specialist services. In the calculation of input-driven funding, a system is underpinned by diagnostic-related groups. It is a patient classification system that provides a simplified description of the activity and patient composition of the hospital. It thus provides the basis for funding, because patients who are grouped in the same DRG should require equal amounts of resources to be treated. This is how the diagnostic system is connected directly to financial ignition. We're not against patients being classified, because we have statistics and competence, and we know what needs to be done. But we're very critical that the diagnostic system connects directly to financial ignition. The National Audit Service has pointed out to Stortinget that today there are many cases of poor code quality in hospitals, which have negative consequences for the management and financing of specialist services. The Health Directorate says that the so-called DRG system, which is the basis for input-driven funding, is not robust enough to be used to provide the basis for financing clinics and departments, and there are large deviations in medical code practices around it. As the case-speaker took up, it was never the intention when the input-driven funding was introduced, that it should be continued down to the clinic level, at the hospital level. It was meant as a method of financing between the department and regional health care agencies. However, there are health professionals who are now well aware of passing this on to the individual hospital, which is once again passing this on to the individual ward. This means that most clinics and hospitals are funded by the number of DRG points they produce. So the diagnostic system is directly connected to economic ignition, or as I'm a little bit simplified, it says: this is a diagnosis directed by money and money driven by diagnosis. One example is from maternity care, where the maternity ward is premiered for complications, for example: bleeding during birth, but not getting extra money if a priority is to put in an extra midwife to make sure there are no complications. There are several selections that have been critical to the ISF part of the healthcare system – among others. The 2003 Hagen selection, which recommended moving to framework budgeting. In 2007, there was also a report supported by the Ministry of Health and Welfare, which saw the need for a critical review of the governance of the DRG down to the department level – and, last but not least, the prioritisation message, which recommended an evaluation of the impact of ISF funding on adverse health priorities. We are very pleased that today we get multiple numbers to reduce the ISF. This is not our primary position; we want hospitals to be financed in the main, but we believe that all the reduction in ISF is good. We had hoped to get a majority in order that ISF funding would not go down to the department level. There is no support from the Working Party. And we lack support from the Christian People's Party to end the ISF scheme in mental health protection. But at least we're happy about what we're getting for today's plurality.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e3103	It is important and wise, I think, that the Stortinget is discussing how health services are financed, and that we are specifically discussing the hospital funding scheme at a more general level than what we do each time we have a budget and will adjust the ISF scheme. The Christian People's Party, together with the Centre Party, has previously proposed a comprehensive review of today's funding of hospitals and the investigation of alternative schemes and models, which ensure that the economy does not become a governing force for the healthcare provided to patients. That is precisely what I think is the most important thing about this debate: we must ensure the good balance. None of us want to be responsible for – or as a patient to meet – a healthcare service where only the economy is in charge. It is good that the Stortinget today takes decisions asking the government to follow up the Prioritisation Committee’s investigation and evaluate how the input-driven funding affects the priority decisions in hospitals. It's a good decision and a good investigation. In its letter of reply, the Council of State states that the current combination of framework financing and input-driven financing provides a good balance between these considerations. The Government Declaration of the Right, the Advance Party and the Left signal an increase in the proportion of activity-based funding. The fundamental view of the Christian People's Party is that the proportion of input-driven funding cannot exceed 30 pst. But we don't get a majority for that today, so we're doing like the Center Party and we're happy for a reduction. We say that we're skeptical about too much effort-driven funding, but it's not just the Christian People's Party and the Center Party that point to this. The Nurses' Association and the Norwegian Psychologists' Association are also concerned about the distortive effect of input-driven funding. The Christian People's Party is also concerned that economics and revenues should not govern the treatment provided by hospitals to patients. This showed the Christian People's Party in its alternative budget, because there we were willing to move over 1.6 billion. from the input-driven funding to the basic allocation to hospitals, just to avoid that distortion. The Christian People's Party believes that there is a need to clarify that the ISF is not a priority tool. The Christian People's Party was also concerned about getting a note into the 2018 budget setting that said: ‘From 2017, funding for outpatient activities in mental health protection and drug treatment is included in the ISF. The Christian People's Party is in doubt whether this is wise, and will see if alternative solutions are available." The Christian People's Party has signaled that we see that this can have unfortunate effects in the field of drugs and psychiatry. We're not sure if we're going to cut that share right now, but we see the challenges that lie there. Hospitals should treat patients. They should never become a production department, where they produce goods. Then it's important to know what controls that kind of treatment. Health professionals must be allowed to work according to their professional ethics and advice, not according to counting edges and production figures. That, I think, is quite important in order to meet a modern health system. The Christian People's Party will have a funding model that ensures that the economy is not governed by the health care provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e3129	I think maybe it's time for an elephant in the room here, because when I listen to the representatives who want to reduce effort-driven funding, I have to say that at least I deeply disagree with both the conclusion and the argument. In fact, for the Progress Party, the most important thing is that patients who need treatment should get it as soon as possible, and then I think it's important to have some incentives that make you manage to get it in a good way. The Progress Party would like to see increased input-driven funding up to 60 pst, but it is in the government platform that 50 pst. is the starting point. I believe that many here have clearly forgotten how it was when everything was financed. I think you might want to go back a little bit and see what that was like. Which departments were the best departments? Well, it was those departments that didn't operate patients and didn't have patients in the department. Then you run a profitable department. At least that's not the kind of hospital I want, because I want a hospital where you actually operate patients. The fact that you do it, that you can do it quickly, and that you can remove health cows, as this government has done, and that's the good way to treat patients. It's not that the ISF should be the one that controls the priority of who you're dealing with and not, it's the other professional thing you're trying to do. It is just as the representative from Stensland said, whether what you get out and what you see, in terms of input-driven financing. A piece price would be called by the Advance Party. That's what we called it, but when the Workers' Party was supposed to be involved in this here, a new name had to be found, and then effort-driven funding was put in place. But that's what to look at – we can read through statistics, and we can see how the money is spent, how the priorities are actually in hospitals, and then it's going to be done over and prioritized differently. I'm not saying that everything is perfect the way it is now, but I think it's the best system. I think it can always be done better. And, as the representative from Stensland also said, it is actually up to you to see if you might want to give a slightly different priority – even on the basis of the information you receive. The representative Wilkinson thought it was a good day with the decision being made today. I'm not sure if it's a good day for the patients, because it's actually proven that after the government helped to increase input-driven funding again, we've reduced the hospital queues. What I think patients are concerned about and think is a good way to run healthcare, that they actually get surgery and don't stand in long hospital cows, which I'm afraid is the consequence of actually reducing the effort-driven funding – or the positive funding that hospitals get, and motivation to operate more patients. It's for the benefit of the patients. I deeply disagree with the red-green production and negative focus on this. I believe in having effort-driven funding, and the Progress Party would like to have increased effort-driven financing. Then I think you can actually treat more patients and give even more patients faster treatment. It is important for patients to recover as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e3140	The government's ambition is to create the patient's health service, and my clear ambition is to continue to reduce waiting times. Waiting time remains one of the areas where Norwegian healthcare is negatively distinguished by international comparisons, although waiting time has been significantly reduced in the last four years. Health regions need to balance more concerns in caring for their responsibilities. Those in need of health care shall be provided with it, resources shall be used effectively and allocated in line with the principles of priority and hospitals shall remain within the financial framework established by the Stortinget. To address these concerns, we have chosen a funding system that is a combination of framework funding and activity-based financing. To illustrate: If the funding system had not had any activity-based funding, hospitals would receive money regardless of effort. That would have been unfortunate. And if all the funding was activity-based, it would be difficult to control the costs. It would also have been unfortunate. The government increased the share of input-driven financing from 40 pst. to 50 pst. in 2014. In 2015, we removed the activity package so that hospitals with economics and capacity can increase activity beyond the budget level. Together with better hospital budgets, more diversity, enhanced patient rights and, above all, significant efforts by those working in hospitals, these measures have helped to reduce average waiting time by 13 days from 2nd tertiary 2013 to 2nd tertiary 2017. The main objective of input-driven funding is to support the care-for-responsibilities of health regions. This means that ISF reimbursement is paid to the regions so that they can finance the services based on local knowledge of patient composition, hospital and cost structure. Detailed governance by the Stortinget or the Government on the local use of ISF revenues is not appropriate. The differences in needs are great, and our knowledge of this variation is limited. The need for stable and predictable framework conditions for health regions is an important consideration. The change in the ISF share may affect the distribution of income between regional health enterprises. It should not be subject to an annual adjustment in the budgetary procedure. After four years with a rate of 50 pst. we see good results on, among others. wait time. If the share is going to change, I think it might be relevant to increase it, as we have stated in the Jeløia platform, but then in a context of the work that is now being done to look at the whole scheme, among other things. by looking at more patient-based funding. There are some important aspects of effort-driven funding that do not come out well in the public debate. I'll mention two of them: Firstly, as the representative of Stensland was also involved, it contributes to a risk distribution between the health regions and the country. This means that the state takes its part in the responsibility for uncertainty related to the change in the number of patients and patient composition. In a framework funding system, hospitals would have had to bear all that uncertainty alone. This means that if hospitals treat more patients than foreseen, the contribution to health regions would have increased. However, if the activity is lower than foreseen, the grants will be lower. Secondly, the ISF contributes to the transparency of resource use, including: may follow up on service priorities. The DRG system – on which the ISF scheme is based – is itself an instrument for statistical and management information. It's not just a tariff system that's meant to be financed. Any financing mechanism may have adverse distortive and priority effects. Of course, this also applies to input-driven funding. However, I believe that the design of current activity-based financial instruments represents a reasonable balance between cost-effectiveness considerations and priority neutrality considerations. Prioritisation shall be based on rules and guidelines, such as laws and regulations. The basic appropriations shall be used to support a desired priority. It is the Health Directorate that is responsible for managing and developing the ISF, in close cooperation with the regions. There is currently a significant development work related to the ISF and it will continue in the years to come. Activity-based funding shall support, in an even better way, holistic patient pathways and not least the use of new technologies and new ways of meeting patients. For example, many services traditionally provided in hospitals can in the future be replaced by treatment administered by the patient himself in medical distance follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e3169	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e3174	The Council of State began its speech by saying that waiting times are falling, and that it is the most important thing. In winter we have been able to read in several national newspapers about seriously ill young girls and boys with severe eating disorders who experience having to wait for treatment for up to six months. Increased effort-driven funding will not help these patients. In the fall, we also received messages from psychiatric outpatient clinics across the country about the unfortunate impact of the ISF. At that time the council answered questions from Stortinget that he was concerned and would follow developments closely. So my question to the government council is, what does it look like today in outpatient psychiatry across the country? No answer that the waiting time in the somatic region is going down, good government council.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e3181	I fully agree that when we introduce the ISF within mental health – as I replied in ours – we need to keep track of whether it is unfortunate outcomes and adjust them, as I have done. I do not agree with that representative, namely that introducing input-driven funding in both mental health and drug-related matters is not going to affect waiting times. On the contrary, I am of the clear opinion that introducing input-driven funding in those areas can help us reduce waiting times there, and that more patients get help, as we have seen that the result has been in somatic health care. Not least, it will contribute to something we lack — more knowledge of the activity in both mental health and substance abuse. It is a positive effect that we have now introduced input-driven funding there, and we already see that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e3186	In the debate on the Riksrevision's document on hospital coding last year, the Council of State stated on 1 June 2017: ‘The DRG Facility and its impact on input-driven funding are not intended to finance a single hospital unit. [[...]] There are some DRG codes at a level that allow larger units to be financed in this way. This is also something that is communicated throughout the ministry, both from the Department and from the Directorate for Health, to the ministry.’ Here, the Council of State clearly stated that a non-interventionary funding, DRG coding, would go all the way down to departmental level, while one in this case does not say the same. My question is: is it true what was said on 1 June last year, and is it communicated all the way that one should not let the ISF go down to the department level?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e3196	This gives me another opportunity to clear up this. Of course, DRG coding takes place in each department, where individual patients are treated. However, the ISF system in a combination based on the DRG is not intended as a system to finance activity, for example: at unit level. It is designed to finance activity within a larger patient base than that because the current DRG does not adequately capture variation, for example: between patients. Therefore, it is not designed to be used as a tool to finance the individual hospital department. We finance health regions based on a mix of basic appropriations and input-driven funding, and health regions themselves assess the criteria they should have for the financing of each hospital and hospital unit.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e3203	I'll thank you. Only to ask again: on 1 June, the Grand Council of State stated that ISF funding should not be reduced to a departmental level, that it is something that one must finance at a superior level, as the Council of State now says, i.e. in regional health care agencies. But I have to ask again because we're just suggesting today that it shouldn't go down, but it's going down, among other things. of the party of government. Can the Council of State say that he will nevertheless do as he said in June and communicate all the way from the department to the services, that ISF funding should not be passed on to the hospital and department levels?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e3208	I can do another try. The ISF funding has not been developed on the basis of the DRG as a financing system to finance the individual department. It's used to finance larger areas, and we use it to finance our health regions. At the same time, we have said, and I believe that the bulk of the population is still on today, that in terms of further funding in the individual health region of hospitals and other units with which the health region has agreements, it is the individual health region that determines both the criteria and the way in which it does so. Internally, of course, the hospitals themselves are doing this. This means that they can take into account, for example: to local conditions, as I said in my post from the pulpit, which neither I nor Stortingen have the complete overview of. That's why it's very wise that the majority of people today don't go in and make that kind of provision, because it would simply destroy the possibility of taking the local considerations that it's important to take.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e3213	Who's gonna decide? Is it the person who meets the patient, or is the employee of the Health Directorate? What we're really deciding here today is to tell the health care staff that they're in charge of 60 pst. of the funds for which they take good professional judgements, or do we just say 50 pst., and the rest must be to meet DRG codes and then pay off from the directorate? The reason why we choose to do this is because we have professional support for it. There have been many consultation responses, and they are clear that input-driven funding of 50pst. Is a problem. The trade union, one of the largest organisations in Norway, the Norwegian Association of Nurses, which organises our nurses, the Norwegian Association of Psychologists, the Norwegian Association of Children and Youth Psychiatric Association and user organisations are unique in that 50 pst. input-driven funding is poor for patients. Does it make any sense to the Minister of Health that he is so at odds with those who actually work in the health system?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e3220	I fully agree that in dealing with the individual patient, it is the healthcare professional who meets the patient who, together with the patient, will decide which treatment is right. There is something that is also communicated throughout the service. It's not the funding system or the way we distribute the money, which should be the leader in this. But I do not agree with what the representative says, that the directorate should not decide anything, because it is the directorate that has the professional responsibility to develop, for example. professional guidance for the service. So I assume that healthcare professionals who meet the individual patient are talking to the patient about what's important to the patient, but also all the way with the leaders from the Health Directorate as the professional superior, in the evaluations of which treatment is to be given. It is not entirely up to the individual working in the Norwegian health service to decide on treatment. One is also responsible for following good professional guidelines developed by the Directorate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e3227	The Council of State indicated in its statement that it is about reduced waiting lists and incentives. At the end of the seventh year, health services are concerned with the treatment provided to individuals by the health care provider. What kind of trust does one then have to the health care staff as a government council? Is it not the case that the employee who encounters a serious injury in an operating room does not do the best possible job to deal with as much as possible in the best possible way if one does not have input-driven financing? Is it the case that the person in a maternity ward is not trying to do the best possible job and treat as much as possible if you have not received input-driven funding? Is it that someone who meets a suicide in a psychiatric ward is not trying to do the best possible job for his patient? Is that the attitude of the Council of State towards employees in the Norwegian health care system?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e3232	I am very confident that the employees in contact with the patients will carefully assess the treatment to be given, and that is why I am not as concerned as the representative who asks me, by meddling in how the individual hospital or health region manages the funding. I trust that a midwife who treats a pregnant woman does not think about DRG credits and funding when deciding which treatment to give. That is also what I am communicating to all the managers in the service all the way: the funding system is not intended that way, and they must have confidence that the professional makes professional assessments. Neither the input-driven funding share nor the basic allocation shall be decisive for the individual’s assessments in relation to the patient. So yes, I have great confidence that professionals in the Norwegian healthcare system are focusing on the professional and do not think about DRG credits or ISF funding when they meet the individual patient.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e3240	Then the cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e3247	It is important to have funding for hospitals that is suitable for achieving the objectives of contributing to good health care and hospital services – good and equivalent hospital services throughout the country, good preparedness, good prevention and a priority that is most important, based on professional judgement. It is a little special that when we are going to provide good care for the elderly in Norway, when we are going to ensure a good school for our children and a good health service in the municipalities – yes, it is primarily framework funding a user, based on a clear framework, based on the needs that exist. Intervention funding is not a good tool to manage hospitals. On the contrary, there is a high risk of conflict with professional priorities, especially when such a high proportion of input-driven funding is available, not only at company level but also at hospital level — and down at department level. Then I notice that representatives from the government parties repeatedly talk about one here having an incentive to treat others to get a better health care. It is based on a fundamental mistrust of those who actually work in the sector, and it is also the problem of the Council of State response when he says, on the one hand, that one should have effort-driven funding to contribute to incentives to reduce health cows, and, on the other hand, that one of course has full confidence in those who work in the sector. If one is to have full confidence in those who work in the sector, and the professional priorities that are there, it is wrong to add to an effort-driven funding, which in many respects goes beyond what is good, professional judgement, as has been pointed out here earlier in terms of effort-driven financing and child care, where one gets extra if one gets a tear or increased bleeding, while one is not primed for having an extra midwife, which can help one avoid problems, and which can also contribute to a much better experience for parents in that situation. It is very important to listen to those employed in the sector and it is very important to make a change. I am pleased that the majority in this Chamber today are at least involved in reducing effort-driven funding. But we need to go further and say clearly that one should not have input-driven funding down to the hospital and department level, that one must also have it out of mental health protection, and that the proportion of input-driven funding in the future must go down further.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e3256	We have to answer some things that have come from the right and are very little knowledge-based. First, the representative claims that input-driven treatment is cost-effective. First, you have to find the most profitable codes. Then you have to report in and convert to DRG points. Then the DRG credits must be processed and systematised. Then funds have to be calculated and paid out. In the specialist health service in Norway, even own employees who work full-time only understand how best to produce DRG credits. Is it cost-effective? No, it's only at Right House that they think it's cost-effective to hire more bureaucrats instead of more nurses, doctors and health professionals. Then Stensland goes on and thinks it weakens the incentives to treat people in our hospitals. I wonder what Stensland and Right think the doctors, the nurses and our health professionals actually do in the hospitals – if they don't work unless the Storting tries to force them to do so. In January, I volunteered to work in a hospital with nurses to learn about the situation. They work hard. They're blown. There are more patients than before, and they're fewer at work than before. And the time they get directives from above, it's not about treating more patients better or treating more patients. No, they need to produce more DRG points. Even the nurses, we're turning into bureaucrats. It is a fundamental distrust of health care employees to stand on this pulpit and claim that they do not do their job unless we force them with economic systems. And it's neither professionally founded nor knowledge-based. The representative Hoksrud told us that when they had framework funding, the best departments were those that didn't have patients, because they went into plus financially. The Progress Party may think that it was the best departments, but for everyone else and for SV it wasn't the best departments. We don't measure our hospitals by financial plus. We are so radical in SV that we measure our hospitals according to how well patients are treated. That's actually the difference in this case. The SV and the Center Party believe that the best patients are the best. Good professional decisions are taken by good employees who themselves receive the funds and make professional decisions, not by financial over-management from the central government. That's what this day is about. We're going down to 40 pst. input-driven financing and 60 pst. framework funding because we believe that professionals should make the decisions – the doctors, the nurses and the health professionals who meet the patients. Today, we have a majority to cut market management and market thinking in hospitals. We bring the power back to where it belongs, to the competent employees, and we take it away from the Health Directorate and from the Right-steered Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e3269	I'll stop all the time until the last speech. I also have some comments on some of the things that have been said in the debate, in particular that we need effort-driven funding in order to have cost-effectiveness. I also think it's a mistrust of those who work close to patients, to believe that they won't provide good patient care and effective use of health care funds if we don't have strong financial incentives. There is also a big difference from when it was full framework funding last, when the county council was responsible. At that time, there were no patient rights that we have today. Now there are clear demands for a treatment deadline, we have deadline breaks, we have completely different governance mechanisms for health services, and we don't need the economic incentives if that's what you're concerned about. All forms of funding have their strengths and weaknesses. Of course, a few operations may be carried out if one has managed to finance the simple treatments, but the point is that the consequences of this is that there are other patients who are not being paid. In Scotland, they have reversed input-driven financing. When they reversed the enterprise model, they start by taking away input-driven funding. There were good results, the waiting times went down, so it has no automatic connection with framework funding. Yes, it has to be controlled, but one can secure it in ways other than by creating a funding system that is so market-based, and where we think there is a risk of error priorities in the services. So we're happy that we've managed to change the direction of the government by bringing input-driven funding down to 40 pst. I'm recording that the state councils have changed their minds since June. Then he said that he told his services that he should not transfer the ISF down to the department level, now the council believes that the businessmen have to decide this themselves. There are a few things we can do about it – they do.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e3282	The debate here is sometimes reminiscent of a revival meeting where we take a strong settlement with the terrible market-based hospital system that we obviously have in this country. I note that, according to the representative Wilkinson, the difference between a trust-based health system and a market-based health system is 10 percentage points DRG. What one does now, is go back to the system that was under the red-green, as SV managed for eight years. So can the representative Wilkinson reflect on a number of points: are more or less patients now being treated? Are the queues shorter or longer now? Are the waiting times shorter or longer now? Could it be that some of the measures we have put in place help those for whom the system is for, namely patients? Wilkinson is very busy telling about all the subject groups, but he's not so busy telling about all the patients. We're going to build patients' health services. I'm being shaken over some of the claims that come about that we don't have confidence because we add incentives into a model. What kind of talk is there to all those who work in other sectors, sectors that are fully incentive-based? Even I have mostly worked in companies that have had incentive-based arrangements. I've experienced trust as just that. It is quite normal in Norway to have incentive-based schemes. We see that patient treatment in Norway is rising. According to some parties here, it's 50 pst. or 40 pst. ISF that determines whether we have a market-based or trust-based system. Then there'll be a lot of attention around this with bureaucracy. I'm curious how much less bureaucracy is going to be of going from 50 pst. to 40 pst. DRG. How many fewer counting edges does that make? It should take you to the jubilee that one manages to move it 10 pst. down. I explained in my previous post why I thought it was wise for a risk distribution between health companies and the state when it came to fluctuations in patient activity. And then I still believe that it's worth working a little bit more – even for a hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e3295	The representative of Estonia is asking what is the difference between the majority and the minority in this room. Well, it's about which direction you want to go. The government parties, including the Left, have an ambition to have 50 pst. Now, and that one should go on up, while what the majority of people in this room today say, is that one should go down to 40 pst. There are several of the parties here that want to move on down. We want another development, we want to go in a different direction. When the representative of Stensland again starts talking about incentives and getting more patients treated, I ask him to explain: Which of those working in the health sector would not have treated people today if they had not had input-driven funding? Are there those who meet seriously injured patients at the operating room that they meet and look in their eyes every day? Wouldn't they have done the job in the best possible way? Would they not have provided the best possible treatment, been treated as much as possible, had they not had input-driven funding? Or are they the ones working in the birthplaces? Is that what Stensland means? Are those the ones who wouldn't have done the same job? Would they not have made sure that the birthers had received the best possible offer, that one had got the most into the departments, that one had done the best possible job? Or are those who meet psychiatric patients who are suicidal and harm themselves? Is it those who wouldn't have done such a good job if you hadn't had input-driven funding? At the end of the day, it's about all the employees in the Norwegian health care system who every day meet patients, who see them in their eyes, who have as their life's work trying to help people. That's what the representative of Stensland is talking about. I also expect answers when one says, overall: yes, but we need incentives, so that there are no longer queues, so that we get more patient treatment. Who specifically is this one talking about? I think Norwegian patients and those who sit as representatives of them would like an answer to that. Both user organisations and employees’ representatives say that they want less input-driven funding because they see that there is a problem in relation to good, professional health priorities today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e3306	This is a rather interesting debate, because it almost sounds like – when you hear the representatives from the red-green side – that 10 pst. is the difference between trust-based and market-based forces. What you can relate to is what the situation is, and how the hospital queues have gone after the Right and Advance Party took over, versus what it was like under the red-green ones: Has it been longer or shorter waiting time? I guess the answer is really pretty straightforward. I think it's a little special to think that because you think you should look at how you spend our money overall, you're looking for the employees and think they're not doing their job. I'm very proud of all the people who work and are on every single day in health care in Norway, whether it's in municipalities, in hospitals or other places, and who do an amazingly important job. But I am also concerned that patients should receive treatment when they need treatment. I think it's good to know a little bit about what it costs to do something there, versus to do it elsewhere. We'll see that through DRG points. Then you see what it costs to do something in one hospital, versus another hospital. Then it's probably also a potential to reach out to those who are the best, as it is in business, where one has to stretch to be the best and to compete with their competitors. I think it might be positive. The most important thing is to help patients and treat patients, and I totally disagree with the Center Party, which doesn't want anything, really. They want to go all the way back to a clean framework funding. There are very clear examples of how it was the time we had it like this in Norway, and it's not a solution I want to go back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e3321	The representative of Sveinung Stensland has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e3326	First of all, the decisions made today by the Storting do nothing big with the model. It's an adjustment of the model. There will still be incentives in there. I have great respect for the fact that the Central Party will remove the entire model, they want to have funding through the states, but there is no majority in the Stortinget. I myself have worked in a hospital, and I understand that it is argued the way it is done, but that is not what it is about when I talk about incentives. We have a system that has approx. 150 B.C.E. in transfers. It is important that we in this room make sure that that money is spent in the best possible way, so that we get the best possible treatment out of the money. I am absolutely convinced that the doctors and nurses treat those who come in as best they can. That's not what this discussion is about. This is about how to get the hospital system to provide the best possible service and the best possible service to the inhabitants they are set to serve.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e3333	And maybe we finally agreed: it's about how best to give patients a good health care. If we're going to know that, we have to listen to those who know the health system. Trade union, Norwegian Association of Nurses, Norwegian Association of Psychologists, Norwegian Association of Children and Youth Psychiatrics – all are clear in their advice: A higher proportion of input-driven funding provides a lower level of health care for patients. So we've created a system of people who are employed to find the most profitable codes and produce people who make DRG points on assembly lines, while heavy treatments have to wait. DRG credits are reported, DRG credits are to be treated and systematised, and funds are to be calculated and paid. We in SV believe that we get a good and effective health service when we employ doctors, nurses and health professionals in all fixed positions, which gives our patients a good offer – not when we hire a whole army of new bureaucrats to calculate DRG credits, so that the Right and Advance Party can be satisfied and believe that the employees will finally do their job.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e3343	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e3355	We are ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map. Case No. 1 with regard to the election of the members of the Electoral Committee and completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e3437	In the course of the debate, a total of twelve proposals have been put forward. It's proposals 1-3 from Torstein Tvedt Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 4-8, from Torstein Tvedt Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 9 and 10, from Torstein Tvedt Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 11, from Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Center Party proposal No 12, from Mona Fagerås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 12, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to introduce a right and an obligation to continue training for teachers.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e3474	There is a vote on proposal No. 11th from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to change the admission basis for primary school teacher training in such a way that candidates with a defined average character and a grade 3 in common secondary mathematics qualify for admission to teacher training.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e3493	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the long-term introduction of skills requirements in all subjects for newly trained teachers.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e3510	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to ensure that the level of competence in the English and Norwegian basic subjects is increased by increasing the country’s share of the funding of continuing training in these subjects to 75 pst.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e3529	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6 and 7 from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Suggestion 6 reads: ‘The government asks it to set up national funding applications that school leaders may apply for to carry out local development projects to recruit more teachers for schools, such as extra pay measures or reward for more permanent employment.’ Suggestion 7 reads: ‘The government is asked to make it compulsory for municipalities to draw up competence plans for each teacher, which clearly include what each individual needs to be competent in order to meet the applicable competence requirements and to meet the school’s overall competence needs, and that this is followed up by the school owners.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e3554	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5 and 8 from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to launch a new national recruitment campaign for teacher training, in particular for men.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking for wider and more accurate admission requirements to ensure that teachers’ students have professional competence, such as the requirements for average qualifications or qualifications in the subjects in which they are to be taught, and to return to the Stortinget in the context of the revised national budget 2018.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e3578	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to come back with a comprehensive plan for recruiting a sufficient number of teachers, including measures to increase the implementation of teacher training during the spring of 2018.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e3597	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to implement a lift of competence for unqualified teachers in school.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e3616	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to amend the training law and the law so as to reintroduce a derogation from the educational qualification requirement for general teachers who have fulfilled the requirements to be employed in the teaching position, including general teachers who have commenced the training before 1 January 2014.’» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that the appropriations for continuing training are kept at least today’s level in future proposals for the State budget and that there is a continued high number of places for continuing training for teachers.’; The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e3674	In the course of the debate, a total of ten proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Åshild Bruun-Gundersen on behalf of Right, Advance Party and Left proposal No 2, by Martin Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, by Martin Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No 4, by Martin Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No 5, by Martin Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 6, by Marit Knutsdatter Strand on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 7, from Marit Knutsdatter Strand on behalf of the Center Party the proposals No 8 and 9, from Mona Fagerås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 10, from the Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red There is a vote on proposal No. 10 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked, pending legislative changes, to withdraw the letter from the Ministry of Knowledge, ‘Assignment of grants to ‘commercial’ or ‘ideal’ kindergartens’, where it is claimed that Norwegian municipalities do not have the opportunity to distinguish between commercial and non-profit actors.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e3725	There is a vote on proposal No. 8, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to propose amendments to the law for kindergartens, so that government grants and parental payments benefit the children and that this money does not benefit private nursery owners.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e3744	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to draw up a national overview of the compliance, enforcement and enforcement in the sector of the Children’s Homes Act with regulations governing government grants and the supervision of private kindergartens.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e3763	There is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to propose amendments to the Children’s Homes Act so that government grants benefit only the children and that this money cannot be taken out in the form of dividends for private children’s owners.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e3782	There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to propose the introduction of a legal requirement to ensure equal pay and working conditions for employees in private kindergartens, including the pension agreement, in line with employees in municipal kindergartens. This must be a prerequisite for obtaining public support.» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e3802	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals to be made by the government to amend the legislation on kindergartens, so that the intention of the Kindergarten Act that government grants and parental payments benefit children is followed up and that this money does not go to the benefit of private kindergarten owners.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal. The Socialist Left and Red have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e3823	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for detailed legislative changes that can enable municipalities to distinguish between non-profit and commercial private kindergartens, and whether such a distinction can be useful with alternative forms of organisation to operate non-profit kindergartens.’ The Central Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e3842	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to assess how it can be ensured that private kindergartens have pay, employment and pension conditions at least in line with employees in public kindergartens and to return to the Storting in an appropriate way.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal. The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e3863	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked, through tripartite cooperation, to consider how it can be ensured that employees in private kindergartens without collective agreements have good pay, employment and pension conditions.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e3880	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that municipalities have access to the same requirements for private and public kindergartens.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e3906	The Socialist Left and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e3922	During the debate, Mr Moflag put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to include the conversion of double rooms into single rooms in the investment grant to nursing homes and nursing homes.’ It is voted on by the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e3958	The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e3970	Cases 8–11 were interpellations, and therefore there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e3979	Four proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Ingvild Kjerkol on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Kjersti Top on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 4, from Nicholas Wilkinson on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the government to investigate why so few permanent staff are offered a fixed salary position despite the growing desire for such security, and to come back to the Stortinget with a matter of how more permanent staff can be offered full permanent posts.» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e4010	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to introduce measures to reduce red tape and reduce documentation work and the workload of the permanent staff, and to inform the Storting accordingly in an appropriate manner.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e4029	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The size calls on the government in the evaluation of the fixed medical system to propose measures to help more permanent doctors to be offered fixed wages and to stimulate the wider use of fixed wages in medical care.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose the necessary changes to legislation and financial instruments to facilitate more use of health professionals other than doctors in and affiliated to the permanent medical centres.’;» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e4088	It shall be counted against II to VI only. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e4102	It's all over you.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e4128	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Nicholas Wilkinson on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Ingvild Kjerkol on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No 3, from Nicholas Wilkinson on behalf of the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party the proposals No 4 and 5, by Nicholas Wilkinson, on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No 6, by Nicholas Wilkinson on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked by the government to propose to wind up the somatic effort-driven financing scheme in 2019.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e4165	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4 and 5 from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that input-driven funding is not continued at hospital level.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to introduce a 100 per cent pilot scheme in some hospitals.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e4189	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that input-driven financing is not continued at department level.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e4208	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to reduce the proportion of input-driven funding in the somatic budget to a maximum of 40 per cent in 2019’. The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e4227	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to close the use of input-driven funding in mental health protection in its proposals for the state budget for 2019 and to move instead to 100 per cent framework funding.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e4257	The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e4276	The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-13.ana.ud561e4333	As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? So it doesn't seem, and the meeting is cancelled.
