ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e28	The new director of the Storting, Marianne Andreassen, took up his position on 2 May. Marianne Andreassen is present today in the diplomatic lodge. The President will welcome her to the house, wish her good luck and look forward to good cooperation! [[Acclamation in the hall]] The representatives Anniken Huitfeldt, Sigbjørn Gülsvik and Svein Roald Hansen, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. Two permit applications are available: of the Workers' Party Group on the Permit of the Representative Eirik Sivertsen on 14 and 15 May to attend the meeting of the Arctic Parliamentary Committee in Kiruna of the Workers’ Group on the Permit of the Representative Cecilie Myrseth on 14 and 15 May to attend the European Parliamentary Space Conference in Belgium On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representatives of the Vara, of Nordland County Kjell-Idar Juvik, and of the counties of Trom Kari-Anne Opsal, are called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e74	The representative of the Bears Moxnes will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e79	I would like to propose, on behalf of Red, to cancel tenders with the company Babcock before the air ambulance service breaks down, extend the contract with Air Transport and prepare for the long-term public operation of the service.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e84	The representative, Kjersti Toppe, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e89	I will, on behalf of Siv Mossleth, Willfred Nordlund, Sandra Borch, Geir Adelsten Iversen, Marit Arnstad and myself, make a proposal to strengthen the emergency medical supply outside the hospital and secure defence air ambulance services.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e94	The representative, Mr Pollestad, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e99	On behalf of Kjersti Toppe and myself, I am delighted to make proposals to strengthen the provision of rehabilitation for patients with chronic lung disease and to stop the closure of the 2 East rehabilitation unit in Egersund.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e104	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e120	On Monday the Stortinge received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Torbjørn Røe Isaksen, Anniken Hauglie and Tor Mikkel Vara will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Jan Bøhler.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e129	My question goes to the Minister of Justice. Unfortunately, during the last two or three years of the Progress Party in the Ministry of Justice, the development of the criminal gang environment in the Oslo area has been alarming. In addition to those we've known from before, there have been more and more gangs running increased recruitment among very young people, and we've got more and more rapes, shootings, stabbings, kidnappings, threats and extortion for large amounts, etc. This may, of course, have several reasons, and much needs to be done. An important part is that we at Stortinget and the government will provide the right guidance signals to the police. In 2013, following the processing of the paper on organised crime, a main objective was set for the police to combat organised crime in what is called the letter of assignment, or the marslin, to the police. It went to the Police Directorate and the police districts. Later, after that time, when we got a new government, this has become more and more removed and disappeared into unclear, broad formulations. If we apply to the police in 2018 for the letter of assignment, or Marsjordren, there is not one word about organized crime or criminal gangs. The Oslo police, when I have raised concerns about resource use and the investment in this field, have repeatedly shown that it is not what they are being measured on; it is not what is being asked, although they agree that this is an important question. My question to the Council of State is: will the Council of State, in order to prioritise this and put pressure on this work, take care to change the main objectives of the letter of assignment, or the Earth of Mars, to the police, so that they are measured by the efforts against organised crime and criminal gangs and must give priority to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e140	There is no doubt that developments in Oslo, especially in the last year, have been worrying. But it's important to remember that it's a complex picture, both with recriminalism and with juvenile delinquency. As with the rest of Norway, Oslo police districts have been given increased resources, special resources have been allocated to Oslo South, and they receive an increase of over 80 new police officers in the current year. These posts will also be used to combat recriminalism. But it's important to remember that there are many things that make us succeed over time. We're going to succeed in that sharp end and we're going to have to break down what's well organized crime, but we're also going to succeed in tackling juvenile crime, from which the next generation is recruited. I also think it is important to bear in mind that this is not the case that repeat crime is a priority in the Oslo police district. I have asked them about this, and they have assured me about it several times. But there was a reorganization in the Oslo police district to make it better to hit the different crime scenes and, not least, to see them together. Reciprocal crime is not just repeat crime, it is also financial crime, it is drug crime, and it is the theft of profits – it is a rather complex picture that calls for the reorganization of police forces. So it's not like we've prioritised this down, but we've given Oslo police districts money both in terms of money and in terms of law enforcement to fight this. I also have very good confidence that they are doing the job that is necessary. But: Crime trends have in any case worsened, and there is a rather complicated issue that involves several things.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e149	I thank you for the answer, but I find it disappointing that the Council of State does not answer the question. The same thing has happened every time since I first, in an interpellation in the United Kingdom in May 2016, that this had been taken out as a target for the police, and that the org.krim sections had also been removed in their then form in all the police districts. Organized crime sections were put into larger units, and they were afraid that it would be prioritised as high. We have received a big danger signal: in 2014, 36 in Norway were convicted of organised crime following that paragraph. When we looked at the numbers in the criminal record before Christmas last year, they were down in 11. So that's reason for concern. It also brought up the Riksadvokat and Kripos with the Justice Committee when we were recently visiting there. If the Council of State doesn't worry about this, I'm worried. I have to ask: what will the Council of State do to develop police work here, so that you can use specialized methods and get into these replicas, surrounded by a threat field, and persecute money laundering and find other evidence when no one wants to witness against them, to clean up this gang environment?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e158	I think it's very important that we don't hang up in the boxes on an organization map in the Oslo police district. I know that there's someone who loves to draw such maps and boxes, and who thinks it hits the crime scene. The important thing is the police force behind it. Some of the keywords were also related to the representative’s question, namely that this is also a matter of money laundering. This means that there may be reason to see different types of crime in the context. But I want to assure the representative that there is no de-prioritisation of recriminalism. Increased resources have been allocated and intelligence has been organised in a new way to make it more accurate. The crime scene today is different. There are new methods and new social media, and it is a worrying recruitment among young people. We have to look at all parts, and I have confidence that the Oslo Police are prioritizing that job.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e165	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Jan Bøhler.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e170	I also thank you for that answer. I would also like to mention that the communities we now see in the Oslo area have strong international relations – with Albania, Copenhagen, Gothenburg, Malmö, the Netherlands, Pakistan, etc. – which gives them increased criminal power and increased opportunity to retrieve ‘backing’, making them more dangerous. It gives them opportunities for money laundering and opportunities to operate a type of activity that is more dangerous to society. They operate from the Oslo area towards many other places in the country. I hear about young people who get a lot of money to carry some of what they're going to have out, drugs and other things, far from farms in Oslo. The government has previously said, in the big news of global security challenges, that organised crime and terrorism are the two main threats to our security. I would like to ask the Council of State: will the Council of State create a national mobilization to stop the alarming development of the relay environments that we are now seeing, which is important for the whole country, and does he realize that this will take several years, and that we may need an action plan to address this serious problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e179	Since this government joined, there have been 2,300 more police posts than they were under the previous government. That's a lot. More than 400 of these posts have arrived in Oslo Police District. This means that there is a significant increase in police force not only in Oslo but across the country — if you compare with the efforts of all other governments to combat crime. I'm absolutely sure that when we look back at the story, this will be a fantastic bet. But there's a reason why we do that. It's not to spend as much money as possible. This is because the crime scene has changed – it has become tougher and harder. We have a high priority, as I said, fighting organized crime and money laundering and going after money. What we're going to do, from a political point of view, is give them the resources they need. We're also going to make sure that they have the laws they need. In this area, we might want to see if we can give them more legal support. But resources have been given to the Oslo police.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e186	Lene Vågslid – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e191	It's interesting to right the story from the Minister of Justice about how well police districts are doing, especially here in Oslo. This government has a very own ability to give with one hand and take with the other. In the last few weeks, in the light of the Oslo situation, Kristin Aga of the Oslo Police Association has said very clearly that the resource situation here in Oslo is such that one has to decrease by 200 in 2018. So the total count in the Oslo police district is not particularly good when it comes to what the Minister of Justice says he's busy, that's the police force. So my question to the Minister of Justice is, why didn't the Minister of Justice come with him and the Prime Minister at Stovner last week, and how does the Minister of Justice address the concerns that come from the trustees and from the Oslo Police Association?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e197	We listen with great interest to what the police's trade union movement says, even though they also say now that they could think of more jobs. The most important thing, however, is that Oslo Police District has received more than 400 new posts than they received when the representative’s party took office in government. It's a fact you can't get away from. Then you can discuss whether there should have been even more, but there is a historical commitment to the police, and that is a historic effort to combat crime. When the undersigned and the Prime Minister were up in the Groruddalen, the police reported on the efforts they intend to make with the 30 new posts deployed in that area. I think that was a good statement, which allows us to get control in the short term. Then we also have to work in the long term to prevent new recruiting to this crowd.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e202	Jenny Klinge – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e207	Einar Aas, head of the former org.krim. unit in Oslo Police District, warned of the reorganisation of this unit back in 2016. I would like the Council of State to do well for what he thinks should be the long-term solution in the Groruddalen and on Holmlia to prevent outreach and repeat crime. I expect an answer that goes not only to the 30 new posts in the area, but also to include the campaign against organised crime in the Oslo police district. Some of what I want answers to is whether the Council of State agrees with Einar Aas that something has been lost through the reorganisation of the Org. Krim. unit in the Oslo Police District. Einar Aas points to others on the previous continuity they had in the work, and the good knowledge they had of people in the environment. What will the Council of State do to ensure that such prevention frameworks are rebuilt?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e212	Oslo police districts give very high priority to prevention. I get questions over and over again about the internal organisation of the Oslo police district, what boxes and what reporting procedures are going to be there. I believe it is a wrong way for Stortinget to pursue justice policy. What we're going to do is we're going to have enough resources. Then we're going to make sure there's a legal framework to fight crime, and then we're going to give priorities. But we're not going to sit in Stortinget and draw reporting lines in the Oslo Police District for several reasons. First of all, it is the police who are closest to the crime that is there and who can make assessments. The second is that the crime scene is changing so fast that the Storting will anyway sit and look in the rearview mirror and try to organize itself in relation to the crime that once was. That's why I think it's important that we let the police officer in Oslo have his own organization. We give the priorities, and then I won't go into the debate more than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e217	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e222	The situation in Oslo is critical, and in many ways it is also a long-standing situation. The fact that gang crime is allowed to develop, causes serious crime to be committed, and one also looks at recruitment as often as many of the young people are quite young when they get into crime. I agree that the Stortinge should not control detail. I think it is important that the police always have the opportunity and flexibility to give priority to where crime really burns, where there is a need for more resources. At the same time, it also surprises me that development has been able to go so far, and therefore my question to the Council of State is: Is he satisfied with everything now? What does the Minister of Justice really want to contribute to put an end to the situation? For as I hear the Minister of Justice now, he is satisfied with the situation and has full confidence that nothing more is needed to deal with the critical situation that, after all, is in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e229	If you look at developments over time, the development in Oslo has been good. Youth crime was on its way down. What has happened, and this has happened in the last year, according to Oslo Police District, is that a new type of youth has been seen in operation – which is worrying – with attitudes towards police and authority that have not been seen before. Then it is important to stress that some of the developments you see are, unfortunately, developments in very many European cities. It is a complex problem, and therefore it must be resolved together. But there are hardly any other countries that have managed to solve it properly, so we have to solve something that no one else has managed to solve before, that is to say, prevent you from getting subcultures from falling completely outside. I am willing to prioritize it, and I am willing to use more tools – the police, but also education, child protection and health.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e234	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e239	My question is also addressed to the Minister of Justice and Defence. The Minister of Justice is responsible for most of the civil protection resources. He also has a co-ordination role and a driving role in social security. Many are now concerned about the overall preparedness of Norway, both within the defence and in the civil sector. These concerns range from food safety to the safety of floods, breeds and accidents. Over the last few years, a number of concerns have been particularly concerned about the centralisation of police and health care preparedness. In many places in the country, people feel less secure than before. The uncertainty as to whether a person is receiving rapid assistance in the event of an accident or in the event of an acute illness is high. In the districts, we have had examples of police centralization leading to police being either hours late for an accident or not coming at all. In these days we are experiencing a situation where ambulance aircraft in North Norway are put on the ground after a nearly scandalous bidding round. This is very serious as a matter of urgency. The risk of someone not getting the help they need is great. How does the Council of State view the preparedness for life and health in Norway, and in particular the situation that has arisen in North Norway, when the air ambulance has not worked in practice for periods of time?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e248	Air ambulance services and health preparedness are assigned to another minister. I am absolutely sure that we are taking the situation very seriously and that the minister responsible for the field is concerned. I also know that he is continuously working on the situation. My responsibility lies with the rescue helicopters, and we have said that we are setting up as much as we can with ambulance missions. It is not uncommon, it is not unknown for rescue helicopters to assist in what is an emergency now. But it's not right for me to go into the situation that has arisen in North Norway in the last few weeks.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e253	The fact that the Council of State indicates that this is not his constitutional responsibility actually illustrates the problem in a very good way. Governments are indebted to each other, and the various State sectors and enterprises are allowed to continue to put off competition and centralise important preparedness without any government, including the Minister of Emergency, taking overall responsibility. Therefore, government councils may be responsible for enterprises and businesses in subsidiaries, and the police may therefore leave responsibility to the municipal fire service. Everyone points to each other, and the responsibility is powdered. If the government does the same thing, it feels far from safe control. But there is therefore one government council called the Minister of Emergency Response, and I would like to hear his view on how the preparedness is going – for some people actually have to have an overall view and responsibility. Then the question is, is he satisfied with the health care situation in North Norway as of today? Does he see that when the air ambulance is standing, it's approaching an emergency?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e261	I don't think anyone from the government has said that they're satisfied with the health emergency situation in North Norway. I have also not realized that the Minister of Health is trying to transfer this responsibility to another minister. What is the responsibility of the Minister of Emergency Response in this area is to ensure total preparedness. In this very acute situation, it's about setting up with the resources we have the opportunity to do from the rescue services, and the defense is doing the same thing. So the situation has to be solved. It's a conflict, and again: it's a conflict solved by another minister under another responsibility, and he's actually sitting and working on every single day. So it will anyway be wrong of me to go into the things that are happening now.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e268	It opens for follow-up questions – first Ingvild Kjerkol.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e273	In the context of the call for tenders for life-saving helicopters for the Svalbard Man under the responsibility of the Council of State, an operational transfer was made to ensure critical personnel, i.e. pilots and rescue personnel with long experience, in the continuation of this critical service. Does the Council of State have any thoughts as to why his colleague the Minister of Health, with whom he shares responsibility for total preparedness, has not secured critical staff for a critical service in the same way as the Council of State itself provided? It was a former state council, correctly, but constitutional responsibility goes on to the next state council – you probably have some kind of business transfer there too, I think. The point is that it is important to ensure this type of competence for a critically important service.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e278	Again: the helicopter service on Svalbard is working satisfactorily. That's what's my responsibility. I am not responsible for the tendering procedures that have been up there, but it is important to stress that there is no new situation in which an ambulance flight is offered. You've had that for quite a while. It is still not right for me to go in and answer for what the Minister of Health has done, and what assessments he is sitting and doing right in these hours.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e287	Nicholas Wilkinson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e292	It has become a habit in this government that governments shift responsibility to each other in crisis situations, but what it says is that the Council of State, the Minister of Justice, is responsible for the ability of society to protect itself from and deal with events that endanger life and health. Governments have social security as their constitutional territory. The North Ambulance Aircraft Crisis causes vital ambulance aircraft to be grounded, aircraft needed to ensure social security in times of crisis. Pilots flee the service, and week by week the competence of the paramedics is tapped. Health Nord has entered into an agreement that is under all criticism, with a bad conflict of viability at the top. Privatisation and outsourcing threaten quality. The board is appointed by the government, and the government has the overall responsibility. So no matter what the state council is trying to do, it's like its constitutional domain. Will the Council of State take responsibility for social security in Norway, or does the Council of State really believe that it should not ensure social security?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e301	The President would point out that part of the question is outside the constitutional sphere of the Council of State, but that the Council of State is free to answer it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e306	Now it is presented as if there is no one working on what is happening in North Norway. It is absolutely right that the Minister of Justice has a responsibility for preparedness. What the Minister of Justice also knows is that the Minister of Health is working on this issue continuously, all the time, so it is not useful to present it as if no one is interested in it because it fell between two chairs. So there's no falling between two chairs, it's with the Minister of Health, and he's working on it all the time. The other faulty production is that it is linked to the competitive outsourcing itself. This is an area that has been exposed to competition for many decades and is therefore not linked to the exact outsourcing of competition. But of course the government has a responsibility for it, and the government is working on the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e313	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e318	In the last few days, we have seen how the government has not taken responsibility for securing preparedness for air ambulances in North Norway. The centre party has repeatedly warned against what is now happening, because people in District Norway do not, of course, bleed anything slower than people in Oslo. Last week, when I was in Finnmark, I met, among others. Oddvar Jensen, who operates hotels in Mehamn. He has experienced gross violence against his employees several times. He then called the police and hoped to get help, but the answer has been: We can't help you, Oddvar Jensen, you have to take care of yourself. What does the Minister of Defence think that Finnmark police have not been enabled by the government, by the Council of State, to help people when they experience gross violence at their workplace? Is there a situation in which Minister of Justice, Preparedness and Immigration Tor Mikkel Vara can live?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e325	Live with – I have to, anyway. What's important to remember here is that the police are not a resource that sits and waits for one phone. The police are out there working on crime every day, and there could always be events that hit each other. Then it's up to the individual police chief to prioritize the resources so that they hit. There are many different types of crime to be handled by a police district. The important thing we can do from the Ministry of Justice and Defence is to provide enough resources. It is also the case that the police in Finnmark have also been given increased resources. What we can do in response time is measure the response time on average. So let's do that. It is not that the response time for the police does not meet the requirements that have been set. It's over big, and it's on average, but it'll always be simple events that I don't know, where the police have had more problems to solve at the same time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e335	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e340	What characterizes Vara's response today is that in a way, he always shifts responsibility away. It is Tor Mikkel Vara who has the highest responsibility for police in Norway, for preparedness in Norway, for people to feel confident that they will be helped when serious violence occurs. The police have not had the resources to get here. I do not criticize the Finnmark police for that, because they have received their government steering signals, which have implemented a so-called near-police reform. But people around the country feel that it is the opposite that happens – or as Oddvar Jensen says, we wonder if we ourselves must be the police. Is that what the new police reform means? And he says directly when you talk to him: we have to make sure that we have some strong men in the village that we can call when there are violent episodes. Is there anything Tor Mikkel Vara can live with, that in different communities around Norway, strong men are contacted, to clean up when the police are unable to do so? [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e349	The President must ask that speaking time be observed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e354	It is manufactured as if there is a new situation that has arisen. There have always been, and have been, situations where police capacity has been burdened to a point where some other tasks have to wait. It's nothing new. What is new in Norway is two things. It is that crime has changed, and – the second that is new – that the police have been given more resources to meet it. It has also been received in the districts. Then you'll always be able to come up with simple stories. These simple stories I am absolutely sure that I could also tell when the Senter party was in government. I can go even further back and find out about single pisods – but it is not possible for me to take a stand for single pisods or to move out on single occasions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e363	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e368	Now, the Council of State has repeatedly said that he is either not responsible – it is another Council of State – or he has denied responsibility for what is happening in the police because it is the police's own responsibility, or he has owed it to the Red-Green Government for many years. But we are facing a minister of justice and preparedness who is responsible for total preparedness in Norway, and, sooner or later, he must be willing to take his share of the responsibility for that total preparedness in the House of Storting. The Central Party has now made a proposal to set up a General Emergency Commission. After hearing the Council of State's response today, I think it's a better proposal than ever, that a total emergency response commission was set up that could have an overall review of the preparedness in Norway. Does the Council of State think this is a good idea?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e375	We have to get back to that proposal. What is important – and that is, I think, undoubtedly easy to document – is that there has not been so much effort ever made by the police. We can also demonstrate and show that preparedness has improved significantly. So it's still the case that there's still an important rise in total preparedness. Important investment tasks are ahead of us, including: a new emergency centre, and we're going to have new police helicopters. All these are investments that are in progress and will improve it. So that doesn't mean that the readiness is on top, because then we wouldn't have to do and implement what we've done, but it takes some time from a set of disks in the ground to the building standing there. It'll take a while from someone who's ordered the helicopter to get it. But I think that this government has nothing to be ashamed of when it comes to betting on the police and expanding the preparedness.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e384	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e389	My question is also addressed to the Minister of Justice, and it is also about crime. I am very pleased that we have got this debate on crime in Oslo properly on the agenda, and I think everyone in this Chamber is aware of what it is about now. At the same time, I would warn against making a description of Oslo as a war zone, as some of the Minister of Justice's party colleagues have tended to do recently. There has been an increase in crime and violence among young people, but the increase is relatively weak. It's not that the crime scene has worsened, if you see this in a 15-year period. The Minister of Justice himself has said that. So we have to warn against stigmatizing these neighborhoods and drawing them too seriously. At the same time, I'm very confused about the way the department handles the police situation in Oslo. On 5 April this year, we had a proposal here in the UK to strengthen police resources in Oslo, specifically with the aim of preventing recrime and juvenile delinquency. The Progress Party and the Right voted in favour of this proposal, so it ended up with a decision by the Stortinget to only strengthen police resources in the Länsmann districts. Then the Minister of Justice said that in that case this proposal would have to mean that considerable resources have to be redispatched from cities and large agglomerations to smaller places where little happens. My question to the Minister of Justice, when he is so concerned about the situation in Oslo, is: Why did he vote down – not himself, but his party colleagues – the concrete proposal on 5 April to strengthen the police resources in Oslo with a view to recrimination and... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e400	I have two answers to that. One is that when operating budgetary procedures, it is an advantage to do so in the context of budgetary processes. It is very easy to say in the middle of the budget period that you have to have more jobs and not take the consequences of getting a hold. We've prioritised police positions for Oslo, it's assigned 86 new year's work, and it'll take a while to get them in place. What the Oslo Police have explained is that they want to speed up the recruitment process, advance it, so that you can get 30 positions in place in Groruddalen. It is also a bit indicative of the debate that was then, that one particular area in Oslo had to be selected as a priority, and that was not the area in Oslo where we had problems last. The last problem was in the Grorud valley, that's what gave media attention. You would send the resources further south. What I think is important is that this illustrates why it is the chief of police who has to decide where the resources should be. If the Storting starts to pick out where police officers should be, it will be to look in the rearview mirror – and here it changes in just a few weeks and in a month. So what the job of the Oslo police is to fight the crime where it is, and create peace and security. I think it's going to be totally wrong to sit here in Stortinget and control the police detail. We're going to make sure that there's permits, we're going to make sure there's resources, and I also have a control task in relation to what the police are doing. And in the short time I've been Minister of Justice – 35 days – I've been to the Oslo Police twice and I've been told the situation in Oslo, and I think it's reassuring. They also underline that the picture is compounded, it's not just negative. There has been a positive development, but there is now concern about what has happened in the last year, and so the police want to take new action. I agree with those measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e413	To this end, I agree that the Storting should be withholding from detailing where the police are going to work. It should be based on a concrete police professional assessment. At the same time, it was precisely the government parties did on April 5th; they detailed that they had to move more police resources to the districts of Länsmann. That was not the opposite, but we wanted to have a balance in these accounts so that police resources could also be strengthened in Oslo. So we can't use it as an argument that we don't have to control the detail when it's actually done to the districts, but we can't control it in detail in Oslo. So I repeat my question: why wouldn't the government parties on 5 April join in on the proposal to strengthen police resources in Oslo?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e421	The Oslo police had strengthened their resources. They had actually not moved to employ all the people they had got the money to hire. It takes a little while, there's a new coal coming from the Police College now, a lot of them get employed in the Oslo Police, and we're increasing the speed of doing that. But then, once again, it's important to say that we allocate money and resources in budgetary processes. You have to make sure you don't spend the same money over and over again. Once you're going to spend money to strengthen Oslo, another time for districts, a third time you're going to spend money to increase the fight against child pornography and assault on children. That is why the budgetary procedure is doing the best in the budget, where we can see all things in context. The important thing is that the total increase in the amount of money that can be spent on police force, and it has done so every year during this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e428	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Olivia Corso Salles.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e433	When I don't meet at Stortinget, I work in the Children's Protection Service and at the Children's Guard in Oslo. I'm meeting these kids. These are the children and young people in search of friendship, community, membership. Perhaps they have some experience from childhood. I'm going to say that they're the most young people. But in order not to get on the Minister of Justice's table, we need a preventive pledge. Police must have the resources to prioritize cooperation with local child protection services, schools, outreach and leisure clubs, because that is only how we can trap these children and young people at risk. The Minister of Justice has a responsibility for prevention work in the cities of Oslo. But how will the Minister of Justice ensure that children and young people are caught up early?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e440	I think it was a very good question, and I think it's a very important question. The Oslo Police have their own preventive unit that works systematically. It is also the case that the 30 positions to be placed in the Groruddalen will work very, very much with preventive work. Then I fully agree with the representative in one thing that is very important. It is that we would rather not want these things to be a police problem, but they will be. It is obvious that the police sometimes have to sit in the driver’s seat when it comes to prevention, but they cannot do the job alone. The school has a responsibility, child protection has a responsibility, the Municipality of Oslo has a responsibility, and I think we should be completely unprecious and completely prejudiced when it comes to seeing if this cooperation works well enough. We also need to see if we can react quickly and quickly enough to younger people in Oslo who are on their way to a criminal track.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e447	Siri Gassemyr Staalese – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e452	The truth about the sitting government is that it fails Groruddalen and Søndre Nordstrand. The government has been a brake block in the Groruddalen bet year after year. In Political Quarter today, we heard the representatives of the Progress Party speak against their own government about whether Oslo should accept the refugees The Progress Party government councils are asking Oslo for each year. The representative said that Oslo should say no to those refugees. The state councils of the Progress Party in the government send letters to Oslo every year asking the city of our settler. On direct questions from the programme leader about what the Progress Party, apart from the stoppage of immigration, sees as the main measures the government can contribute to making it feel safe in all parts of Oslo, and that the repetitions of the Oslo gangs are on the right track, the representative was unable to answer. So then this question goes to the Council of State. What does the Council of State think is the most important measure that the government can contribute to addressing the challenges in Oslo?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e461	I have not heard that debate in the Political Quarter and will therefore not comment on it, and that is certainly not right. We have to do things in the short term, and we have to do things in the long term. In the short term, police and police force are important, and there is a presence of the police. It's happening now. That's what the Oslo Police have said, that one should give priority, with 30 new police posts going out into the Groruddalen. That's the short term solution. Then we have to go into the long term. Then it's pretty complex things. But the only important thing here, I think, is to be completely honest when we do this analysis. That means that we should not exclude anything, nor a discussion about immigration. Immigration is also part of the understanding of the problem there. This government is pursuing a restrictive immigration policy to ensure that immigration into Oslo is sustainable. I think that's very important to be able to deal with the problems in Oslo, too, and that's why it's also there as part of the goal. We now have the lowest asylum rates of over 20 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e470	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e475	The Minister of Justice may stand still, yes – but I'm going to take a look, because child abuse is one of the most horrific crimes there is. What adults can do to children and young people is completely incomprehensible to me. There are more people living in slavery in the world today than ever. The UN estimates that it is 27 million, and very many of them are children – children who are being exploited and sexually abused. According to Redd Barna, one third of everyone who sells sex in Asia is children. What some refer to as sex tourism is about white men who travel to Thailand, Cambodia or the Philippines and commit abuses against children. It has nothing to do with sex, it's assault, and it's human trafficking. The Christian People's Party has for a long time, through various initiatives and through contributions to the budgets, made greater efforts to combat violence, abuse and trafficking in human beings. Children living on the other side of the globe, especially in countries without particularly good legal systems, are particularly vulnerable, and we believe that politicians also have a special responsibility here in Norway to protect them. We cannot see innocent children being exploited by Norwegian citizens. If you do a quick search on google with the words 'abuse of children in the Philippines', 17 100 hits in 0.19 seconds. If you replace the Philippines with Thailand, it's 20,900 hits. The extent is enormous. According to Kripos, between January 2013 and April 2014, 400 Northmen sentenced to child abuse travelled to risky regions. What concrete action has the Council of State taken to combat child abuse by Nordics abroad?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e488	I am very pleased with the commitment that the Christian People's Party has shown in this area, also linked to the resources that have been made available from the Storting in the fight against child abuse. I think we're facing a new type of investigation methodology where we still have a lot to learn. So this is online police work, because, as the representative rightly points out, these infringement cases are not limited to one country. Even in Norway, drug abuse has branched out of the country. Interventions in other countries have branches to Norway — either through the exchange of pictures or through their possession. This means that this is a very typical police task that must not stop at a national border. What has happened in Norway is that one has significantly strengthened its competence in online research, online work and online searches, and it has also produced significant results. This is why it has been possible to keep new detections of assaults in Norway. So it's like, once we move out of Norway, we start getting pretty complex police cooperation. But I think the representative's question is good, I think the representative's question is important. We can't just work in Norway, we have to see what we can do from police work abroad. I don't think there's any disagreement about that, but we're facing both a question of legal cooperation with the rest of the world and a question of teaching us police methods that we might not be able to do for a few years, but on which Kripos in particular develops a very high level of competence, such a high level of competence that I think they can actually share with many other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e499	Thanks for the answer. International cooperation is absolutely important. But I also show that TV 2 has for a long time revealed several cases of people who have been convicted of abuse in Norway and who have travelled to Thailand and Cambodia. These include: a case in which a person is convicted of repeated abuse of small children in Norway. He got a new passport when he was on trial, and thus he was able to travel to Thailand without anyone from the criminal justice department responding. It's unsustainable. I cannot understand that the Minister of Justice can accept a system in which a man who has escaped custody after repeated child abuse, who has admitted in the interview that he is a pedophile, and who also admitted that he has escaped from Norway to Thailand precisely because of it, is allowed to have a new passport in order to abuse young children. The predecessors of the Minister of Justice have stated that they want to change the law so that you can be deprived of the passport in such cases. What is the status of that work, and when can we expect a matter for Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e509	I can start with the end: I don't know what the status of that work is, when it can be expected to the Stortinget, and I can't comment on a single thing, naturally enough. But I think the revelations and reports that have been on TV 2 are very, very interesting. If I am allowed to comment on this, it is because we fear that it is actually police work that reveals criminal cases that have been in existence for many years, that when there are now more and more cases, it is not because there are more cases, but because we are able to reveal more cases. The reason why we are able to reveal several cases – if I get a little back to it – is that we actually organise the police in a new way. That means some of the police have to investigate online. It is a highly specialised competence, and it is important that you have units that create good professional environments for it. This is actually one of the things that works very well with the police reform, namely that you get these environments that reveal such things.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e519	It opens for follow-up questions – first Kjell Ingolf Roppstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e524	I thank you for your answer. At the same time, I would like to stress that this is a work that the Minister of Justice should give priority to, and in particular, the reactions that have been made by the government in the past. One of the challenges is that the systems do not talk together, such as when a person who is unemployed is able to get a new passport – when it should obviously appear a red flag in the system that said that this person should not have a passport – and then can travel, escape from Norway, to commit abuses against vulnerable children. I understand that the Council of State cannot go into individual matters, but if he sticks to the principle: does not the Council of State agree that a person who is a pedophile and has committed repeated abuses against young children should not get passports so that he can go out and abuse other young children?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e531	Again: I cannot go into individual matters, but I think that the way the representative makes the case, there is cause for concern – if there is anything other than system failure. I also think that if there are restrictions on information between people that are necessary to prevent and prevent new abuses, we must definitely do something about it. Then we have to get back to Stortinget with the law houses. And that is the way – as the representative also points out – that both law enforcement and competence issues are a priority. I know that it was the priority of my predecessors, and it's on my table; I'm just not able to say when things get to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e538	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e543	I'm going to respect the fact that the Minister of Justice doesn't have an overview of all the fields and all the cases right away – he hasn't been sitting in the chair for a long time – but my opening question was what he wants to do to prevent Norwegian men from committing abuse abroad. The obvious thing for me is at least to put down a barrier so that those who are in the risk zone – then we talk about the worst cases, those who have committed repeated abuses and have been convicted repeatedly – are not allowed to get a passport and travel abroad. It's very strange to me. That's why I'm just asking the question: does the Council of State agree with me that repeaters, persons convicted of repeated child abuse, should not get passports so that they can travel abroad?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e550	I think the question is good, I think it's right to ask it, and I think absolutely it's worth reflecting on. But there is also reason to go back and check which laws and regulations apply to this, and what are the different reasons. We have to distinguish between what is a violation of the law, where it is a police task to reveal it and to prevent it, and what are things where we have to tighten up the law. I'm willing to look at both, and I think the representative is asking a good question, which I think is important to bring back to the department.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e555	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e560	These are very serious things that we are now talking about. It is true that the police have gradually improved, but here, the media has probably also played a very important role, in revealing some of the most serious issues, among others. those referred to as the Dark Room cases. The government is known to be very quick and quick to make proposals that can prevent asylum seekers from staying in Norway — although they may have good reasons. But it seems that the government is not as fast at the lab as it is when it comes to putting in place a code that can prevent the Nordics from going abroad, not necessarily to emigrate, but simply to carry out some of the most serious abuses we know. What is the reason for this different priority?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e567	I think it is important to distinguish between what is a legitimate asylum application and not to commit anything criminal, and what the representative says will be to go out to commit a criminal act. We have different rules and different reactions to it. I fully agree that we are talking about some of the most serious crime that can be committed, and that the media is important, not least to increase the attention on these issues. I think it's important when the police show the media that this is revealed. So if we know that people are going to do something criminal, there's one thing, but the question is, how much do you know what people are going to do? That is why we need to distinguish between what is a police matter — people who have done something criminal — and the suspicion that you have, and the prevention work to be done. In this area, I don't think there's so much disagreement, but we have to work a little bit to find the tools that are right.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e578	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e584	In the last few days, there has been a big discussion about whether Oslo is insecure or not. Many events in the Groruddalen have led politicians to rent a bus for a sightseeing tour for those who had not been there before. The Minister of Justice tells us that 30 new police officers will be deployed in Groruddalen. Much is done to produce Oslo and Groruddalen as unsafe and dangerous places. At the same time, UNE has disregarded the fact that the Supreme Court has established that Farida and the family have been deprived of refugee status on the wrong basis. UNE justify the unreasonable rejection that it is safe in the territory from which it comes. So according to our current government, it's very unsafe in the Grorud Valley, while it's completely safe in Kabul. Afghanistan is considered safe enough for a long-lived family in Norway to have been wrongly deprived of refugee status, while drawing out in the knowledge and broadness of the danger of the Groruddalen. I know that the Minister of Justice cannot instruct UNE, but is the Minister of Justice concerned that this matter, which is under the responsibility of the Minister of Justice, seems to be overreaching the decision of the Supreme Court?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e593	As the representative correctly states, UNE shall have an independence from the Minister of Justice and shall be able to assess individual cases. I believe that in itself can be a proper arrangement, and I have no reason to believe that UNE is doing something illegal or illegal. In this way, I think this is a matter that UNE is still going to deal with, and this is not a matter on the Minister of Justice's table.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e598	In a rule of law, the principle of power distribution is important. The Farida case has been through three courts, and a vulnerable family has all won – against the state. So the rule of law works. The small, vulnerable party still has an opportunity to win, even against the state. But once the state has lost, the UN, which is subject to the Minister of Justice, nevertheless chooses to maintain the decision that has been declared invalid. This is going to be a whole bunch of coffeecakes. We can't do that in Norway. A vulnerable family wins over the state in three courts — without affecting the final decision of the state. Will the Minister of Justice, by law or regulation, ensure that UNE complies with the intentions of the decisions taken by the courts of Norway? Or is UNE elevated above the Supreme Court?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e605	The UN may state that the Supreme Court judgment meant that UNE had to re-examine the case, in line with the precedents in the judgment. The Supreme Court did not say that Farida and her family had to come back to Norway. UNE has to deal with the matter and draw the conclusion that is right for them. There's reason to remember that there's a lot of things here, and you can always discuss how they're going to be treated. But I would like to remind you that the Stortinget reduced the ability of the Minister of Justice to give guidelines to the UN – against the wishes of this party and the Right – and said that we should be able to provide guidelines to a lesser extent. You can't have a cake and eat the cake. It is not possible to deprive both the Minister of Justice of the opportunity to give guidelines and insist that he should do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e615	It opens for follow-up questions – first Per Espen Stoknes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e620	Just one or two hours ago, there were three explosions in Kabul again, according to Reuters just now. Will the Minister of Justice take the initiative to review the hazard assessments and the return arrangements to Afghanistan?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e625	UDI and UNE are dealing with these matters. I have no reason to believe that the country information underlying the assessment is poor. On the contrary, it is highly respected internationally; it is a recognised, good country information. The situation is different in different places in Afghanistan, and this requires different assessments on a case-by-case basis. That is why this is a simple decision and not a general decision. I have no reason to doubt that UNE is doing a good job and that they have a good basis for decision-making.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e632	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e637	First, the Minister of Justice must be aware that the Supreme Court has condemned the UN for an illegal decision. It is invalid. The second is that the land assessments that UNE is now basing itself on are not about Kabul. They are about the district of Jaghori in the province of Ghazni and are based on an agreement concluded between the Islamic terrorist organisation of the Taliban and local warlords. So this case is not just referred to as an administrative mutiny. But is it really the case that the government and its administration are doing well for such agreements, and is it Norwegian policy that the Taliban should provide protection and security for forced-returned little girls and families?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e642	It is not right for me to comment on the outcome of this case. I assume that the new UN decision – it is very important to bear in mind that it is the new decision – has been taken in line with the premises of the Supreme Court judgment. So it's the Stortinge that has the overall responsibility for how the treatment is to be done. The majority has passed a law, it has been given regulations, and they have delegated authority – first to UDI, to which I can give guidance, and then to UNE, to which I cannot give guidance. That's the way the organization works. It is therefore not right to take individual cases here, although I understand that you can have an involvement with individuals in the individual cases. But this is the Storting's way of organizing this job.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e649	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e655	My question goes to the Minister of Labour. The relationship between an organized and serious work life on the one hand and value creation on the other is quite well documented. And the state council and I have had the pleasure of discussing it on several occasions. Now the Labour Party believes that precisely because the social benefits are so great, it is also a common task to contribute to an increase in the level of organisation, that it is not only a task for organisations but also for politicians. One of several tools, which we want to use, is to double the deduction of the trade union quota. There is something that Right has rejected multiple times. They used to say that it doesn't have the necessary effect that you're after. In a recently published research article, written by researchers from the Institute for Social Research, ISF, and funded by the Norwegian Research Council, how the Norwegian tax deduction for the trade union quota affects membership of professional organisations. They have taken into account the period 2001–2012, and then it appears that the increase in the tax deduction for the trade union quota in that period led to a significant increase in the level of organisation than he would otherwise have been. This is an investigation carried out at company level in the industry. Taking into account the same effect throughout the world of work, it means 75 000 more skilled Nordics – 75 000 more common workers who are more stable and safer. The tax deduction is with the Minister of Finance, and the degree of organisation is with the Minister of Labour, so I would like to believe that these numbers are interesting to her as well. And my question is, what will the government do about new measures to get the level of organisation up? Does she have any measures that will bring 75 000 more people into the organised world of work? It's the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e670	I am not aware of the article to which the representative Tajik refers. I've seen a little different numbers on how the tax deduction affects the degree of organisation. But what the government has said, both in the previous platform and in the new platform, is that the tax deduction should be fixed. So we support that subtraction. At the same time, I believe that there are several other measures that are also important to contribute to an increase in the level of organisation, and this is precisely through. cooperation between the parties, by inviting organisations into matters that are important to them, and by involving them in the work where they also have specific competence and knowledge. We have cooperated on two strategies against labour crime – in close cooperation with the parties. The parties themselves have also said that this work produces good results, and they are satisfied with their efforts. I have recently negotiated an agreement on a new public service pension. We work together on a number of areas that are of importance to the parties and which could also contribute to increasing the level of organisation, because organisations are also seen to have an influence on policies that are important to them. At the same time, I also believe that the organisations themselves have a responsibility to make themselves relevant to the mass of members. We know that employees want to register, it must be felt as meaningful and relevant to be part of an organisation. There I believe the organisations themselves have a special responsibility. Among other things, we have in an article published in the Agenda, that you are not even asked if you want to become a member. It is clear that if we are to be able to increase the level of organisation, we must at least be able to ask our colleagues whether they want to be part of an organisation or not. But there are several instruments that can be central. As I said, we maintain the deduction, but we also involve organisations in matters that matter to them.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e681	Governments talk about the importance of organised labour, but do not show the willingness to act in order to get the level of organisation up, and that is what I demand when I see that it has the kind of documented effect that it has got 75 000 more Nordics into organized working life, with the importance it has for people, working life and social life. And when I ask what the government will do, it's what the government will do, I'm interested in, and not what the organizations can do. It is clear that they can also contribute – I expect them to do so too – but this is a question time for the government to do well for its actions. I think they should talk about the organized working life and the organized working life, they say that they should involve them, but we see that they don't care about their meanings. We saw this in connection with the changes in the Working Environment Act. I'm waiting to hear what kind of actions this government has been planning to do to get the organizational degree up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e689	It sounds as if the government has removed the union deduction. We don't. The trade union deduction exists to the highest degree, it lives in the best of luck, and it also stands out what we've done over several years. So there has been no change in it. Yes, I believe that some of the things that are important from the authorities’ point of view are just involving the organisations and the parties in matters that are of importance and importance to them, and where they have specific competence and knowledge that will benefit the case. This does not mean that everyone will always agree with everything – it is not possible to do so. And besides, what we often see is that there's also a lot of disagreement between organizations and the parties on some questions. Then the task of the authorities is to be able to balance the different considerations so that both views are properly taken into account. I believe that we have done so, both within the framework of the Akrim cooperation, in the area of rental and in other important areas in which the parties have been involved and engaged.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e696	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Arild Grande.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e701	My follow-up question goes to the Minister of Industry, for the research article also shows a clear link between the degree of organisation and productivity. Without the red-green increase in the trade-union deduction, the participation of organisations would be lower, and the gross domestic product of the mainland as well as productivity would have been lower, a total of 6 pst. lower, or 44 kr less per hour of work throughout 2017. If we assume that this applies to the whole country, Norway would miss almost 170 billion. kr. The government makes it more expensive to be a member of a trade union, and the degree of organisation goes down. Consequently, we can assume that productivity will also be affected, as we already see clearly in construction. Obviously, here's the ideology in the way of reason. How can a Minister of Industry sit and watch the country miss this money?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e706	Like the Minister of Labour, I have not read the article, so I would like to read it to see if, in particular, the methodological representation that the representative has is quite correct and precise. We have to distinguish here between what is our task as authorities and what is the mission of the organisations. Our job as authorities is to give a tax deduction. We do – we give an extra reward to those who organize, because it is important for Norwegian working life. And then it's making the organizations relevant. And how do we do that? Yes, through tripartite cooperation – not just one-party cooperation with one organisation, but tripartite cooperation. Then the paradox in the discussion about the degree of organisation is that even though the tax deduction has increased and has been at the same level under this government, the level of organisation is falling. At least then, I would have been in one of the big organizations, asking me the question: why is it that a tax deduction is not enough to raise the level of organisation, for example. the service industry? Could it be that tax deductions alone are not essential, that there are other things that are needed?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e715	Per Olaf Lundtigen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e720	For trade unions, safe and good jobs are an objective and the economy of the enterprise is a means of achieving this objective. For the owners, the economy of the enterprise is an objective, while involvement and well-being among the employees is a means. The Law and Contracting Board for a well-organised working life has conferred both rights and obligations on the trade union movement. This has contributed to a more common understanding of reality, which has led to a more constructive handling of the contradictions between work and capital. The consequence is greater involvement in the improvement and development of the employees’ enterprises. Sick, professionally skilled and engaged workers create a work life based on trust over control, and this is a crucial competitive advantage and provides a seamly increase in labour productivity. My question is: does the Council of State see the trade movement as a necessary part of this work, and will the Council of State therefore go out actively and encourage more trade unions to organise themselves?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e727	The short answer to that question is yes. It is obvious that it is important for Norway to have strong organisations, to have equivalent partners. It has been good for the Norwegian economy and the Norwegian society to have strong partners and strong organisations that take overall social responsibility. There is no disagreement in this room. We're also concerned about what we're doing, and we've seen that it's good. There is also a background for the government's commitment to facilitating good tripartite cooperation, where we involve organisations in questions and matters that are of importance to them, but also to Norwegian society as a whole. We have a number of examples of that, I mentioned some in my previous answer, in areas where we closely involve the parties. But then the parties don't always agree. There may also be disagreement between organisations on the part of employees and perhaps even on the part of employers. Then it's up to the authorities to balance the different considerations.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e732	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e738	My question goes to the Minister of Industry. Norwegian seafarers are the foundations of the maritime industry in Norway. In such a situation, there is a paradox that the Minister of Industry and the Government are now working to change the legislation to allow Color Line to replace at least 685 of its Norwegian seafarers on the Kiel ferry with foreign labour. This shall be done by opening to move a ship from the Norwegian Ordinary Skips Register to the Norwegian International Skips Register. When we challenge the state councils, we are told that this follows from the Maritime Region Selection, which delivered its report in 2014, which shows that the Norwegian ship register is not competitive. A lot has happened since that time. The Danish krone price has changed. The Storting has better arrangements, and today Fjord Line says that they think there are better conditions in the Norwegian register than in the Danish register, which I guess is the fear that Color Line will be switched to. Fjord Line is very clear on this, that the Norwegian ship register is competitive. It's very special that in such a serious case, we're only clearly referred to four-year-old numbers from the Speed Area Selection. They are added to the table, they are not quality assurance or are not rejected at all. My question is: will the Council of State conduct a renewed assessment of the competitive disadvantages of Color Line in being a fleet registered in the Norwegian Ordinary Ship Register?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e749	First, I would like to say that I fully agree with the representative Pollestad that if we are to have a maritime cluster in Norway – and we have a cluster of everything from shipping, technology, research environments, shipping companies, shipyards and seafarers – we also need seafarers. There is an important reason why during this government there has been a strong strengthening of the arrangements, precisely to ensure that we have Norwegian seafarers. We're using 2 billion. kr on this in the year. That's good, because we need seafarers to keep the cluster that we have in Norway. The Color Line case must be seen as part of the overall maritime policy. You can't just pick out a little bit and ask, why are you doing this? You have to look at the whole thing. The Maritime Committee outlined a strong strengthening of the instruments to have Norwegian seafarers. They also had a proposal for a change that was linked to the Color Line and the registration of their ships, and there the government has now said that the regulation is ready, but with some changes from the last. I just want to remember what their reasoning was. It was that if we didn't do this, a total of 2,500 jobs could be at risk. The Ministry of Economic Affairs does not go into and assess the accounts or budget figures of individual companies in Norway. We create the overall framework conditions. But I think Fjord Line has a very good point when they say they have good conditions to flag ships back to Norway. There must also be one of the reasons why under this government there are several ships flying home to NOR, but especially to NIS. Finally, the answer to the question from the representative Pollestad is that this has just now been discussed by Stortinget. I've answered that. I have stated what is the government's position in that matter, and then it is the Storting that is going to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e760	Saka is about at least 685 Norwegian seafarers with families who could risk losing their jobs. Then you have to know that they are speaking as a basis for a decision that facilitates this. The number of Speed Area Selection is four years old, and as far as I know, they're based on the numbers they've got from Color Line. Before a special designer code for a single fleet team, there must be a minimum requirement for the government council and department to enter and improve the quality of these numbers, because there is a lot at stake. There are several things that have changed. The exchange rate is different from that at that time. The size has better arrangements. Attractive casino legislation is not taken into account. So my question is again, will the Council of State undertake a new quality assurance of speech?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e767	I have gone through this whole matter one more time. But it has never been such at any time that the Ministry of Economic Affairs – as far as I know, it has never happened in any case – enters a business or a job and goes into detail through accounts, budgets, strategies and future assessments. We do not operate this kind of industrial policy in Norway and have not been involved in many, many decades. When we're going to look at the whole maritime policy of having seafarers, in order to have environments of competence, we have to do it – see the whole thing. Then we can't rely on a general principle, on how the situation is right now. This is one of the most competitive industries in the world. It is easy to flag ships – one thing is for Denmark, but you can flag them to almost anywhere in the world. We can't rely on the fact that right now we have a favorable dollar rate. We have strengthened massively the arrangements for Norwegian seafarers, invested heavily in research, and we also propose this as part of the overall maritime policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e774	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Terje Aasland.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e779	I think we are totally dependent on getting a new assessment of this matter. The matter is growing, and I believe that with the arguments and the answer the Council of State now gives, the matter seems increasingly bad for the government. In fact, one cannot fully describe the current state of Norwegian competition, with the answer that is now given. I believe that the basis for the decision fails. The consequences for ordinary workers are dramatic. And that doesn't stop with 685 seafarers -- no one can put a number, it's the company itself that decides when you change the order. So it's really quite incomprehensible that the government doesn't choose to collect more knowledge at this point, until someone implements the regulation change. It's no shame to turn around. Will the Minister of Industry reverse or at least reconsider his view of changing the regulation, based on what is now the situation and competitive conditions of Norwegian shipping companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e786	As a black person in the past, I have gone through this whole matter one more time. It's the way we can't make politics based just on snapshots. An important reason why Norway is competitive right now in all areas is, for example: the exchange rate. It can swing. We're going to do our job, from the government's side, so that we don't get such a high crown price that we spit out industrial jobs and competitive industries, but it can swing. It also means, as I have also said, that it is not that we go into individual companies and evaluate their accounts, future plans or something like that. We create the overall framework for competition, and then you have to view this as part of a whole. On the one hand, we did something that the red-greens did not do, namely that we strengthened the arrangements for seafarers in Norway, got more ships included, spent more money on Norwegian seafarers than we – as far as I know – have ever done. On the other hand, we had this change, based on the Speed Committee, which said that in the worst case we would risk 2,500 jobs if we didn't do anything. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e793	It's about time. Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e800	My question goes to the Minister of Justice. On Sunday we could watch TV 2 that trust elected in Norwegian prisons struck alarm. We've had a cut in Norwegian criminal care for over four years of over 200 million. kr, and trustees from the NFF, the Norwegian Prisons and Free Care Associations, and other associations now state that they are no longer able to carry out their social mission. This is serious. At the same time, the government has spent almost 1 billion dollars. D to hire prisons in the Netherlands. I'm worried about social security, that we're now going to see a growth in repeaters, and that Norwegian prisons no longer intend to deliver a punishment that works. It has been a systematic reduction in the content of Norwegian criminal justice at the time this government has ruled. To TV 2, the Secretary of State of the Minister of Justice says that a person talks a lot with them, but it doesn't help to talk if you don't listen. Here at Stortinget, we have read the Civilombodsman's reports on the use of insulation. We have also recorded feedback from the Human Rights Institute, including what is reported this year, which is not good. My question to the Minister of Justice is: how does the Minister of Justice make sure that the trustees now sound the alarm in the way they do, and that they think that they are now unable to carry out the social mission that is preventing new crime?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e811	Of course, we're taking the most seriously what the trusted ones are saying, and we're listening to several of the recordings that are coming. But I think it's important to see what the government's strategy for this has been. This government took over a prison system with considerable cows. The first problem was to reduce those queues. That's what you've been working on systematically. A lot of money has been spent on the sector to bring down queues, and queues have succeeded – in practice, they have been solved. There are also some major investments to be made to get new prisons in place. This will include, inter alia: a new prison in Agder. Prison buildings and new prisons are also important in order to provide a good offer to both the employees, represented by trade unions, and the prisoners. This is a big boost: get rid of the queues and get new prisons in place. So I think it's natural to look at the content as well. It also comes, but it comes as a result of getting rid of the queues, and as a result of getting new prisons in place. But I'm taking it absolutely seriously and I'm going to listen to the recordings that come from the trade unions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e820	It is a major problem, and it is that the Minister of Justice does not recognise that work on content, especially in the last four years, has been completely neglected. We have an ABE reform, which states that representatives of the government should not frame the bottom line or go beyond operations or add them. We in the Justice Committee have now visited several prisons around the country that, of course, give us a completely different story: they cut in the number of adders, there are more choices and tricks to add and between the inserts, and a cut in the programs that work. If one thing I thought the Progress Party was busy, it was that those who come out of prison are less criminals when they get out than when they get in. I also believe that this is part of a good victim care policy. My question to the Minister of Justice is: Will the Minister of Justice guarantee that every krone that was intended to be used in the Netherlands, which will now be closed, will be used to strengthen the content of the soning, so that we can come back to preventing new crime within the walls?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e828	Budgetary questions are part of the work on the budget. What kind of dollars are we going to spend on what? We're going to get back to the budget. I think it makes sense to take budgetary questions when dealing with the whole thing. It was necessary to take considerable action with the prison system, which had received a significant increase in queues during the previous government. Priority No 1 was a big clearing job to bring down the queues. That's what this government has done. Priority No 2 is renewing part of the buildings – it is possible that we need to come back and do something with even more – so that we get better contents in prisons. It doesn't mean that it's a goal to downgrade the content, but it was urgent tasks that made it more than one thing we had to deal with. The content is important, because it is important to be able to provide the prisoners with a rehabilitation service that will ensure that they do not remain criminals and return to prison. But it's for the government a big job with this whole sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e837	The oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e852	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this section. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative of Solfrid Lerbreck to the Minister for Transport, will be taken up by the representative of Eirik Faret Sakarissen. Question 7, from the representative of Mr Henriksen to the Minister for Fisheries, must be postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e866	‘Norway, together with Iceland and Liechtenstein, has sent a joint comment on the European Commission’s proposal to give EU financial supervision increased powers, stating that the proposal can ‘judge complex constitutional and political issues that are challenging to resolve’. Will the government oppose an increase in the transfer of sovereignty to ESA or the EU’s financial supervision, and will any decision in the EU on additional powers and tasks for EU financial supervision be submitted to the Stortinget as its own matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e879	Norway’s relationship with the European Banking, Securities and Insurance Supervisors – EBA, ESMA and EIOPA – was established by political agreement in autumn 2014 and implemented by decisions of the EEA Joint Committee in autumn 2016. The financial supervision participates fully as a member of the supervisory bodies, but without voting. Our experience with the Financial Supervisory Authority's participation in the three bodies has been good. The EEA Agreement has a high value for the Norwegian financial market. The EU is now looking at a revision of, among other things. the governance structure of the supervisory bodies. I want to make it clear that the solution is not clear. A proposal for revision by the European Commission is being examined by the European Parliament and the Council. There has been a wide-ranging political debate in the EU on the proposal, including: on the same considerations as Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein have emphasised in the hearing replies sent. In addition to participating in joint consultation responses from EEA/EFTA countries, Norway has also recorded bilaterally. In our consultation responses, we have stressed the need to maintain the balanced approach of the EEA/EFTA States to the participation of the three European Financial Supervisory Agencies. It is important that the Financial Supervisory Authority be able to participate in discussions in EBA, ESMA and EIOPA, as a mechanism is currently in place. We also believe it is important that the supervision of financial markets is primarily anchored nationally, where knowledge of the market is greatest. At the same time, common European coordination of supervisory principles is positive. We will continue good solutions for Norwegian links with the European Financial Supervisors. We cannot exempt ourselves from the financial developments in the European Union. In order to facilitate the functioning of Norwegian financial and capital markets, we therefore need to find solutions within the EEA that facilitate Norwegian participation in the supervisory bodies within our legal framework. I express these views in meetings with my colleagues in the European Union. The Government will continue to promote Norwegian views in the ongoing review. When it is clear how the amendments are adopted in the EU, we will assess what steps are needed to safeguard Norwegian interests and that any revised solution is well anchored in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e892	It is now almost two years since the urgency of the Stortinget case concerning the link with the EU Financial Supervision, where the Norwegian Financial Supervisory Authority was subject to the EU, and one made a model with a copy solution, whereby one employee of ESA is to copy decisions from the EU – a mere circumvention of the Norwegian Constitution. At the time, the Minister of Finance tried to dedramatize what was done. Norwegian input from Norway to the EU now warns against giving EU financial supervision increased power. The question then arises as to what kind of solution would be relevant to Norway if the Commission’s proposals were to be implemented. Is it relevant for Norway to say no to the expanded power of the EU financial supervision, or will one just follow the path, in the eyes of the Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e899	It's true that it's been two years since this came into place. It's also true that a large majority in the Biggest agreed to this. It was also claimed by the representative Gegelsvik’s party – at least it was created as an impression – that the entire Financial Supervisory Authority would be pulled up with its roots and moved out of Norway. I believe that everyone who joins in the current public debate is not the case. We have an active and present financial supervision here that does a good job on behalf of Norwegian consumers and on behalf of Norwegian financial institutions. As far as the EU is concerned, they do not speak with one tongue on this issue either. There are considerable discussions going on, as I said in my previous reply, between countries and from our point of view towards the EU. So the question is in no way clear, and as long as it is not clear what might be the outcome of the ongoing discussions in the EU, it is difficult for me to comment on what we will do. But what I can assure you, as I also said, is that we will return to Stortinget in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e906	What the Stortinge did two years ago was to submit the decisions of the European Union to the Norwegian Financial Supervisory Authority, and now there is a proposal from the European Commission for this to go further – just as the Central Party warned against that time. The financial supervision of the European Union shall, if the proposal of the European Commission receives a majority, be given greater opportunity to intervene, negotiate and take decisions in the event of disagreement between national supervisory authorities. In contrast to current rules, one also opens up the possibility for EU financial supervision to engage in own-initiative disputes and proposes that securities supervision be given direct powers in several areas related to the capital market union. My specific question to the Minister of Finance is: Is it relevant — yes or no — for Norway to accept an increased transfer of sovereignty to the EU’s financial supervision? And if not, what solutions will a concrete one promote?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e913	The center party warns against so many things, so I think we'll deal with what this case is about, and what it's not about. It focuses primarily on the importance of the EEA Agreement for the Norwegian financial market. It is important that we have good integrated solutions, all the time this is a large and important market for Norwegian actors, and that we have a reasonable clarification of the division of labour between us. Then the representative asks me to advance the outcome of something we do not know. I'm not going to do that. What I'm going to do, on the contrary, is what I'm already doing, namely to continue to express our clear views on this matter, together with Liechtenstein and Iceland. And so, as I've said two times now, it's not like the European Union is talking with one voice here. There is considerable disagreement about this. Therefore, I also assume that the views expressed by Norway in this case will be heard.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e925	This question, from the representative of Solfrid Lerbreck to the Minister for Transport, will be raised by the representative of Eirik Faret Sakarissen.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e930	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The eel track has a potential of several hundred thousand passenger trips per year. The track is a train project that will give thousands of commuters on the North-Jearth a lighter everyday life. When will the government take the necessary steps to reopen the Aelgårdbahn?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e939	Let me first of all thank you for the question and then point out that we have given significant priority to the railway. It has been part of our main campaign in the field of transportation. In our national transport plan there is a sharp increase in both investment in and maintenance of the railway, thus continuing the development that has been in the last four years. It has also benefited the Jærban. There are now more take-offs on the Sørlandsbanen and Jærbanen than before, and improvements have been made on the route that have increased the capacity and comfort of travellers. The appropriations for maintenance have meant, inter alia: have been able to replace the contact line network on Jærbanen, which was about 60 years old, and we have also been replaced by important bridges near Eigersund, which means that the railway becomes more predictable, but also that the floodfarer in Eigersund has been reduced. As regards the further development of the Jærbahn, it is planned to work on plan clarifications, such as the municipal sub-plan on the Sandnes-Nærbø route, during the first period and with regulatory plans at the end of the period. I have a lot of dialogue with local rapporteurs that alerts me that they are aware of this progress, but it is important that we have a clear early choice of trajectory in order to remove land bundling. In the draft action programme of the Directorate-General for Railways, we have also set out to establish several cross-sections, such as: Means you can get a block off to Ganddal. That action programme is now being consulted, with the consultation deadline of 22 June 2018. I mention this because the track is the main track for the railway on the Iron, and that's what it will still be. On the other hand, passenger traffic on the Ålgårdbahn was closed in 1955, some 60 years ago. The track was then given siding status the following year. Freight traffic on the route Foss-Eikeland to Ålgård was cancelled in 1988, so it has been a long time since trains actually traveled on the route or with a mission on that route. Some of the section of track was used for the transport of concrete elements up to approx. in 2000 – so nothing in the last almost 20 years. We have previously asked the Railway Agency to carry out investigations and assess the possibilities for reopening traffic on the Ålgårdbahn. The answers we have received show that these are traces that are more or less worthless in the technical state they are today. That means that one more or less has to rebuild the whole track, ergo is the big investment. It's not the way the original questioner claimed in Stavanger Aftenblad yesterday, that the tracks are there, it's just putting them into service. One has to rebuild from the foundation. Then you're probably talking about 1 billion. kr in investments or more. Therefore, our approach has been that we should rather look at the paths that one is not really going to use for a while, and see if one can turn them into travel areas and the like. These are issues relating to sections in Trøndelag, and I also believe that the Ålgårdbahn is really well suited to be assessed as a route more than a short-term route.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e954	I have to say that the answer is to a large extent an explanation of what you've done on the track. The most important promise for the Jærban was the double track that came into place under the red-green government. But to get back to Ålgårdbahnen, which the question is about, the Council of State says it will come up to 1 billion. kr. I haven't seen that number base. The numbers I've seen say that one will come about 750 million. kr. What the original questioner probably said about was that of course you cannot use the rails that lie there now, but you can use the line. It makes it possible to regulate this much easier, without expropriation, which I expect the Council of State would be concerned about. The question is, when you know this, when there is a distance that you can use, and you know that hundreds of thousands of travelers will be able to use it every year, what is the basis for not saying yes?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e961	First of all, I used most of my answer on the Ålgårdbahn, but it's important to point out that we are betting heavily on the railway in general and the railway in particular. That's where the greatest potential is. So you're talking about millions of travelers on the railway line versus maybe 100,000 on the Ålgårdbahn, which the representative here brings up. It is then important that we do not lose focus on where the greatest gain is, and that we continue to work and spend the money where one gets the most benefit. When you have a route that has been in practice wrecked for decades, and so suddenly thinks it's going to solve the challenges, I don't think that's right. When you have to build everything from the bottom of, it means that making sure that this is more of a travel area in the next few years brings greater benefits to society. But it's true that the line is there. For example: saying that this is going to be a lane, a cycle path, doesn't mean that if you see in the future that the potential for the railway is greater, that we've done what we're going to do on the track, and so you can start looking at other sections. But I don't want to prioritize the Railway. That's what I'm trying to communicate with.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e968	Of course, neither SV nor I will, but the Council of State comes up with figures that appear to me to be incorrect, both when it comes to cost, and when it comes to the number of travellers. Because I stand here with the latest report that has been prepared on the market base for the Ålgårdbahn, and it does not say about it. It's 100,000. It says about. 600 000 journeys per year. Therefore, it appears that the Minister of Transport is busy talking up the cost and the travel basis down. This is something that is used for a trip today. You can travel on a threshing road along the Ålgårdbahn in both the one and the other direction, and I expect that the Council of State has done so. At least I did. When we know that, I think it's well suited to re-establishing the Ålgårdbahn and providing a easier everyday life for most people. Don't the Council of State agree that this would be wise?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e975	The whole point of government's transport policy is to give people better travel opportunities, greater flexibility and thus facilitate both car, bus, train, bike, plane and boat in a much better way than what you've seen before. I stress again that it is correct that there are investigations. In the last investigation that has been carried out, the estimate from the Railway Agency was that the cost of operating the Ålgårdbahn was about 750 million. kr. But when one makes assessments based on what one at the same time sees that one needs, it estimates that it's probably the minimum measure. That's why there's a basis for saying that we're going to have to be able to spend at least 1 billion. kr or more to make this a working distance. There are also other collective solutions in the area. Now, we're going to negotiate an urban exchange with the North-Jear, where it's not just railway or nothing, but there's actually also a good bus offer. That is why I believe again that it would be wrong to set 1 billion off. kr or more to upgrade the Ålgårdbahn when you have a better offer, while we know that the railway on the Jærbahn can do much more. Then it is best to use the money to give priority where we already have the bets.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e985	«The government has decided that a new government quarter will be housed in many departments. It places undesirable limits on the area of the working environment and on the task-solving of employees. Research, inter alia: from the Labour Inspectorate shows that the chosen job concept can increase sick leave and weaken cooperation and efficiency. Employee involvement is not taken into account. Why does the government overlook research and gambling with a poorer working environment, less efficient central government and more sick leave and exclusion?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e992	The Government assumes that all departments, except the Ministry of Defence, will be grouped in the Government Quarter. This is not a new thought. Such a collection has been wanted since the Ministries moved into Hammersburg in the 1880s. We want a government quarter that is, from a long-term perspective, an efficient and well-functioning departmental community with the necessary security. This implies flexibility in terms of capacity and changes in the ministerial structure. The Government Quartet must also be built for flexibility for forms of work, technological development and digitisation – which will have an impact on how we work in the future. There will be good jobs. We have a high environmental standard in the project. The Government Quartet shall provide a good urban environment, which shall be representative, accessible and secure. We're concerned about the whole thing when we return to the government quarter. Once we have chosen activity-based jobs, it is because there is a solution that provides a good balance between the long-term needs, costs and environmental impacts of departments. We've looked at what the research says. It is difficult to compare office solutions in different countries and between different industries. We have had a comprehensive literature study that shows that the research does not clearly say that one type of office solution is better than another. Employees have participated in the design of the job concept. We have experienced engaged employees. We've had a process of involvement and information. We've both been talking to and listening to the employees' recordings. With regard to the decision on the job concept, we have weighed different considerations against each other. An important consideration is to ensure good working conditions at an acceptable cost. For example, state buildings have estimated fixed space for all employees and 50 pst. cell offices would require approx. Extra 20,000 m2 for an additional cost of about 1.5 billion. kr. Greater land would result in a greater burden on the city and the urban environment, increased investment costs and increased operating costs. And not least, the construction and operation of 20,000 m2 extra represents a significant environmental impact. We've established an area standard of 23 m2 of BTA per employee. Our land standard is slightly higher than the equivalent standard for ministerial buildings in some other European countries. So we haven't added up to very scarce areas to the workplace. For example, we are well above the standards recommended by the Labour Inspectorate, cf. the work regulations. Departments have a high degree of flexibility in the use of land. We have added up to two main options — either that the employee does not have fixed space, but has good options, or that employees have fixed spaces in open office environments, but with fewer options beyond the fixed place.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e1009	Now, what the Council of State says, reveals that this way of thinking is a purely savings reform. One has been led by a thought, which is evidently from 1880, that all departments must be brought together. There are very negative constraints both on the working environment and on the urban level. It's not necessarily positive that everything has to be pressed on the same plot. It is absolutely impossible to understand that someone can conclude this on the basis of the work environment research that I have had available and that the government has shown that it has used it. For this reason, it clearly concludes that this can lead to loss of efficiency and major problems for employees, also because state activities are special and require very high accuracy — including in the handling of confidentiality-related information. How do you relate to silent information in open office landscapes?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e1016	Firstly, it is not right that the economy has been the only decisive thing. Putting all departments, except the Ministry of Defence, in one government quarter has many positive aspects. It is about urban development, the environment, efficiency, and not least about safety. So all the good advice that has been obtained indicates that the departments should gather in one quarter. That decision has been taken by the government on the basis of a total and thorough assessment carried out by people with competence in that area. Then the state's business is special – but actually not so special. The privacy-related information is processed both in the private and in the public sector. I am, among other things, I know that a red-green town council in Bergen is planning to get exactly the same way of working in the town hall, where you work with information about silence. The fact that you have cell offices and rooms available makes it clear that you can handle this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e1023	When research shows that efficiency can be reduced, it is very serious, because the effectiveness of the state’s work is important. But the state also has a responsibility for seniors to stand for a long time, and people with disabilities and health problems should also be able to work in the state. So in an open office landscape, you don't have to have a permanent job, you have to wear your cardboard under one arm and your PC under the other and hunt in a place to sit – until you're 70 years old. I think it would be wise for the government to think about this. Because it must be meant that it should be possible to work in the state even for those who are not the most pervasive, and for those who do not deal with noise around them when they are to carry out very complex and difficult tasks. The institutions that have tried this concept before have had to leave it largely because it has seemed very negative to the working environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e1030	The last thing I disagree with. There are a lot of people, even in private businesses, who experience this as good solutions. But it's not like everyone, regardless of their function and age, has to choose not to have a fixed space. You can choose to have permanent office space. Then you have less choice for another type of flexibility. But we have to make some choices. Overall, there must be a good solution for employees, for the city, for the environment and not least for safety. We've taken care of those reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e1040	I will ask the Minister for Health: ‘Styret i Health South-East has recently chosen to scrape what would become a new, common radiology system for all hospitals. The direct costs so far have been over 220 million kroner. In addition, time spent by employees who have tried to make the system function properly. It is the Hospital Inland that has been a pilot and has taken the costs. Will the Council of State ensure that these costs are reimbursed to the Inland Hospital so that the patient offer is not affected?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e1049	The board of Health South-East has assessed that it is not advisable to proceed with the introduction of the regional radiology solution and has decided to cancel further deliveries from Carestream Health. This is based on both the experience so far, the pilot project at the Inland Hospital and that one has failed to establish a regionally standardised set-up for a regional radiology solution. It is regrettable that the introduction of a common ICT solution for radiology in the region is now being stopped. Health South-East has had major challenges in the field of ICT in the last year. However, I have seen that Health South-East has gripped this and among other things. changes in the organisation of the ICT area. There are several health professionals who need a new ICT solution for radiology in the region and there is still a goal of sharing radiological information electronically between the enterprises in the region. This is important for health professionals in hospitals to have easy access to this information, including pictures, no matter which hospital the patient comes to. The Board of Health South-East has decided that Oslo University Hospital is assigned to acquire a radiology solution to meet the needs of the enterprise. At the same time, this agreement shall be capable of being used by the other health establishments in the region. In addition, a communication solution shall be provided to enable radiological information to be shared between hospitals in the region. The Board of Health South-East adopted in 2013 a budget of 478 million. for the implementation of a regional radiology ICT system. By the end of 2017, 221 million have been used. kr on the introductory project of the Inland Hospital and other regional activities. The amount does not include the reception costs of health enterprises, such as: training. It is, as I see it, premature to say something about the total costs associated with the decision to stop the further introduction of the radiology solution, but the preliminary estimate is about 114 million. kr. In addition, it will incur a smaller cancellation fee. This is a lot of money, and such a loss is very regrettable. There has been a difficult situation for the Hospital of the Inland, and Health South-East has provided the healthcare company with financial compensation for this. The financial compensation is based on an overall assessment of the total costs of the health care provider to cover the additional costs of the delivery project and to ensure patient safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e1060	I thank you for your answer. Then I think that I want to be direct and ask the Council of State: how much of the hospital's costs are compensated, and how much is to be taken of the patient treatment in Finland?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e1065	Based on the information provided, a letter from Health South-East went to the Hospital Inland on 27 April this year. It appears that on the basis of the information provided by the Hospital Inland HF, it is assessed that the health company has incurred additional costs in its contribution to the delivery project and in regular operation in order to meet the requirement of patient safety. Health South-East assigns 26 million to the Hospital Home Health Business. DKK in income support, of which 11 million. kr is linked to the delivery project and SEK 15 million. kr is due to additional operating costs in 2017 and 2018.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e1070	Thanks again for the answer, which makes me very worried. That means over 200 million. kr will be covered by the Inland Hospital, which will cause patients in the Inland to receive a worse hospital offer than they would otherwise have had. Does the Council of State think that's right?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e1077	Health regions determine the distribution of funds allocated to them by the Storting between the different health establishments. In this case, there has been a dialogue between the Hospital of the Inland and Health South-East. The Inland Hospital has provided information on its costs. The full picture of the cost has not been clarified yet, but this is a question I believe is best resolved in a dialogue between the Hospital of the Inland and Health South-East, and that they together find out how much to compensate for.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e1085	‘The air ambulance service is critical infrastructure and provides medical emergency services throughout the country. The service is now threatened by unwise tendering procedures. Life and health are at stake. Key personnel are not guaranteed access to and termination of a new actor. The lack of pilots puts planes on the ground. Only luck has prevented a serious exit. Does the Council of State take responsibility for the situation, what action will the Council of State take, and does the Council of State consider that tenders are an appropriate means of ensuring life-saving medical preparedness?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e1092	I am serious about the fact that there have been recently periods of reduced ambulance standby, especially in Finnmark. Healthcare employees, especially in the north, are now making considerable efforts to minimise this situation. I am responsible for the regional health companies, the top responsible, have had a close dialogue with Health Nord and through them also with the Air ambulance service. I've been to Bodø and Tromsø, meeting those in the situation, and being briefed on how those in charge of the executing service plan to handle the preparedness in the future. Health Nord, as I have also requested, has submitted a plan of measures both in the short and long term. The plan must necessarily be further developed and updated as the situation develops, not least if there are changes in the ability of air transport to provide the service on which they have agreed to provide with the country. The Ministry of Health and Welfare has requested assistance from the Ministry of Defence. The defense put in a manned helicopter in Finnmark yesterday afternoon, and they'll put in another one tomorrow. According to Health Nord, this gives a stable emergency situation for the next two weeks. In addition, additional aeroplanes have been introduced to remedy the situation. Today’s operator, Air Transport, has employed 10-12 pilots to replace those who have stopped. However, new pilots need training before they are able to enter normal service and are expected to be ready in June. The air ambulance service in Norway was established as a national service in 1988 and has always been provided by private suppliers. The private actors have been pioneers in the development and operation of the service, and we have a long and good tradition of cooperation. As a result, the service has been regularly tendered at intervals of about 10 years. Aviation is a highly complex sector, both technical and safety, including in the field of legislation. That is why, in our opinion, it is not a specialist healthcare service that you need to build up on your own. Every ten years, we have renewed our fleet and increased its quality in many areas. However, an operator switching will always be demanding. Good, binding agreements and systematic preparation are important for success. The health and ambulance services have established agreements both with the current operator and with the future operator that provide clear guidance for close cooperation during the transition phase. A separate deployment project has also been established in which both operators contribute. In the corresponding shifts, a based on these instruments has also not seen the kind of consequences that we see now. We're in a demanding phase for the Air Ambulance Service. I have asked health regions to follow the situation very carefully and am themselves constantly informed about the development. Of course, we are constantly considering the need for new measures. Our main concern now is to contribute to patients, especially in the north, being least affected by the situation that is. That's what has to be the main priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e1111	I ask whether the Council of State takes responsibility for the situation, and the Council of State answers that more measures have been taken now, including: a plan of action in both the short and long term. My question back again is: does the Council take self-criticism for the way in which this matter has developed? And why haven't government councils been on the track before? I would like to remind you that the representative Marit Arnstad sent a written question to the Council of State on this matter in January this year and received a reply that there was no reason to expect that there would be a problem with the recruitment of pilots. I asked questions in March, and I got the answer that the situation would improve beyond spring. How can we trust that the new measures will work and that this will not be an even greater crisis than they are today?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e1116	As the representative is aware, the situation we are now facing is very much linked to the fact that the negotiations between the pilots' trade union and the new operator have been stranded across a week ago. This means that the main situation now is not necessarily related to the recruitment situation, but that we also have situations that arise on very short notices related to pilots who experience that they are unable to fly. This means that this needs to be managed by deploying additional resources, which have also been done. Substantial efforts are also being made in healthcare to deal with this with a number of responses both on the emergency side and on the service side. That's the way we can deal with this situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e1121	I ask again whether the state council will take self-criticism that he has allowed this to go so far. It is a little strange to transfer this responsibility to the fact that it has been a violation of the negotiations, because it was the health service that did not ensure that it was part of the offer that one had to bring the pilots, either through collective migration or through a business transfer. Thus, one view of the game has what is most important in the service, the pilots and the special skill they have, plus that one in the offer of knowing and will prioritised down quality for the benefit of price. I want to ask you again whether he does not take self-criticism in retrospect. And again, can we trust that there will be no crisis situation in the north and in the rest of the country tomorrow, next week and the coming months?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e1126	This tender has been conducted in an entirely ordinary manner. It is not common for healthcare to require a transfer of activities, nor by this type of service. From June, Norwegian Air Ambulance AS, the company of the Norwegian Air Ambulance Foundation, will take over several of the helicopter bases. It's also an ordinary tender, without any business transfer requirements, and we don't see the same situation there. These are services which have been regularly tendered since it was established as a national service by a Labour Party Government in 1988. My main concern is about patients and their safety, and therefore it is about contributing to and ensuring that the necessary measures are put in place, precisely to avoid this being detrimental to patients’ safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e1134	My question to the Council of State is as follows: ‘On Friday 27 April, negotiations between the Norwegian Federation of Pilots and the Babcock Scandinavian AirAmbulance, BSAA, on an agreement for the transfer of ambulance flights to the BSAA, taking over the ambulance flight from 1 July 2019. This resulted in all the ambulance planes in Norway being put on the ground. The lack of ambulance aircraft standby persists and serious deviations from the responsible medical team have been reported. What concrete action will the Council of State take to ensure that there will be 24 hours of ambulance preparedness available in the coming year?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e1143	There is a very demanding situation in health services, especially in the north and especially in Finnmark in the last few days. As I said, I left on Saturday to meet healthcare both in Bodø and in Tromsø and representatives from Health Finlandmark. I also met today's operator and the trustees. The situation is that we needed even more measures and also plans for a longer-term work, and I asked Health Nord to do that. It was sent to us a day and a half ago. There are a number of measures that are both in place and can be implemented and scaled up as necessary. As we know, we have used the agreement that we have with the Defense, and we have requested two of the Defense helicopter. One of the helicopters is now in place in Kirkenes. The other helicopter will be here tomorrow. Additional aeroplanes are installed, which are rented by the future operator, and scalings have also been given in the service – scaling up by car on the ambulance side, scalings in readiness with competence in the smaller hospitals and a number of other measures. These are measures that can be reinforced. The situation changes from day to day. Therefore, we need to be able to scale up these different measures as needed. It's a good part of the transport that's going on with aeroplanes, which are planned for transportation. They will, of course, be less prioritised in such a situation in order to be able to handle the transports that are more urgent. That's the way the service handles that kind of contemporaneous conflict, all the way. It is demanding for those who work in the service, especially when it seems that this can last over time. This is why, among other things: the regional AMK at UNN enhanced manpower. So there are a number of measures that are being inserted. I come to Stortinget on 15 May, and I have asked to explain the situation. I will then discuss these measures and the circumstances surrounding the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e1152	Urgent measures do not help sick newborns and premature infants. It alerted the UN Children's Department today. So their life depends on the function of the air ambulance. Child nurse Marianne Nordhov says that there are only questions of time before life is lost. It's about newborn babies. What this is about are people. There are sick people who are totally dependent on having ambulances in place – on wheels, in air and on water, when lives are to be saved. Then you have to have crisis measures to take care of it. When you are told that there is no room for a custodial inside these planes, you cannot save newborn babies either. My question is now: does the Minister of Health think that this is enough to say that it is to be regarded as a national crisis?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e1157	First to describe the situation: it's not like we're in a situation where all the ambulance planes are on the ground. That was us for one night, the day that there was a break in the negotiations. After that, ambulances have been available. Today, one is in a completely different situation, among other things. in the case of availability, than that which one was two days ago. What happens then is that you have a priority in the service. It's absolutely right that the helicopter can't do all the missions, just as air ambulance planes can't do all the missions either. But that means, as we do now, that when we put in two additional helicopters with medical expertise on board, they will be able to solve the tasks they can do, and will thus relieve the flight capacity, so that the flight capacity is more readily available for the missions that only aircraft can solve. So that's the overall preparedness that's crucial to the patient's safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e1164	Clearly, there is disagreement as to whether the measures taken are good enough or not. UNN medical personnel clearly believe that this is not sufficient. So we can have a long round about it. I also need to get into what is part of the core of the problem, and it is about the tender itself. It's a tender that didn't have a business transfer, that the pilots who are in those jobs today don't come over. In that case, they will have to apply for their own jobs when you get a new operator. It is important for me to get an answer to this, because it is the Minister of Health who is the top responsible. You can't say that that's just health north. The responsibility lies with the Council of State. My question to the Council of State is now about the tender: Is the Council satisfied with the design of the tender itself?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e1171	The tender has been carried out in the same way as the corresponding tenders have been made, without having had the consequences we now see, in other contexts. It is not common to require a transfer of activities in this type of tender. In that case, it would be something new. Then there is legislation related to the transfer of activities, including: regulated by the Working Environment Act, and there are possibilities to enter into agreements on it. It is precisely the kind of question that is either a question of negotiation or a legal question. The agreement that has been concluded has been legally concluded. It does not represent dumping of prices or large savings by the country, on the contrary. The consequence of the new agreement is that the cost of this service increases by over 20 pst, by 100 million. kr annually, including because the service will be strengthened.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e1187	This issue has to be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Minister for Fisheries has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e1195	‘19 pst. of the oil Norway exports, goes to the petrochemical industry, i.e. plastic products. Norway produced about 1 % of the total population. 79 million tonnes of oil in 2017, and 15 million tonnes per year, including plastic production, are approximately equivalent. 50 billion in income. At the same time, the government of a fraction of it cleans up, while the plastic profitors insist on the export. The oil industry has contributed in many ways to the climate crisis. How will the Council of State ensure that it does not also lead to an increase in the plastic crisis?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e1202	The government shares the concern of the representative Stoknes regarding plastic stowage, not least in the sea. For this reason, the administration of the Jeløya Platform has a separate point on navigability where a number of objectives and measures are proposed. In the revised national budget, we are also proposing to strengthen the maritime waste management aid programme by 130 million. NOK – an increase of 150 million. NOK 280 million. kr. The measures proposed by the government are based on the fact that plastic challenges are essentially a waste problem by remaining in nature instead of being used for energy use or recycling. On the other hand, it is not appropriate to target the use of the instrument against the oil companies. They can have a very limited influence on how different households and businesses handle waste, including plastic waste to which they have supplied raw materials. This applies not only to oil but also to other raw materials. For example, it would be equally inappropriate for aluminium producers to be responsible for drinking water packaging of aluminium which is being diverted in nature. Like everyone else, oil companies must provide for their own waste management and operate environmentally efficiently on Norwegian soil. Today, we are world leaders in the health, environment and safety of the oil and gas industries. The solution to the plastic waste disposal challenge therefore consists on the one hand in better waste and collection systems and, on the other hand, in reduced unnecessary plastic use, and this must be done through an international effort. As with the climate challenge, the ocean plastic challenge is a global challenge and needs to be addressed globally. Then I would like to stress that plastic is a very good material with some properties and qualities that many products depend on. The important thing is to prevent plastics from being diverted into nature, and then good reception and treatment systems – not least in developing countries – are important. The government has an offensive strategy against sewage and will strengthen Norway’s international leadership in the fight against marine pollution and take forward offensive national measures at the top of it. As noted, the Government's ambitions are reflected in the Jeløya Declaration and are followed daily by the Minister for Climate and Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e1215	The Greens think it is nice that the government has added a few extra millions to the revised national budget for marine plastics. But the question goes deeper than that. Producer responsibility means that producers and importers are responsible for their products throughout the cycle, even when they become noxious waste. Increasingly, producer responsibility is required in many different sectors. The tobacco industry and manufacturers lost a lawsuit and were compensated for producer responsibility as they deliberately sold harmful products to customers. Just as climate damage lasts for centuries, so plastic damage lasts for centuries before the microplastics and nanoplastics are gone. Our question is: Will the Council consider a Norwegian producer responsibility in plastic production to prevent Norwegian oil from ending up as plastic in the sea?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e1222	As I underlined in my main response, it is difficult to go after the commodity producers in this case. Oil markets are organised so that oil is sold, and one cannot follow oil from given fields, given to producers, until the final products with which it ends, whether it is for fuel or, as in this case, the petrochemical industry. It's also important to emphasize that the 19 pst. go to industry and petrochemistry is an estimate on the global market. Where Norwegian oil ports, it is not possible to trace through the current market solution. It's also true that out of the 19 pst. is 12 pst. specific to petrochemistry, the remainder is linked to other industrial processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e1227	Several different cities, e.g. San Francisco, now appoints oil companies, among others. Chevron, in court because they have produced a product that they knew had harmful effects, among other things. huge forest fires due to climate change. Chevron points to Statoil and Norway and now draws Statoil into the case. If Norwegian oil production can be sued for causing climatic damage, regardless of whether a follow-up to the individual molecule, there is reason to believe that the same principle can be transferred to the plastic consequences of this production. Studies already show that microplastics and nanoplastics can have toxic and harmful effects on both seafood and humans as they pass through the blood and into the brain. What assessments has the government made of this type of liability risk?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e1232	I would like to stress that the plastic challenge is to be taken seriously, but it is linked to dealing with plastic waste – ensuring that you have good reception and treatment systems globally. The discussion that is now being attempted here by the representative Stoknes, with reference to the tobacco industry and climate action, I believe is a derailment. Norway is a relatively large producer of oil, yes, but still accounts for only 2 pst. of the world's oil production. Should we go to the step that the Environment Party representative wants, and have a controlled closure of Norwegian oil and gas activities, the oil we are talking about here, which goes to the petrochemical industry, would probably have been produced elsewhere. This is similar to the debate we have on climate challenges and how it would turn out if we were to wind up our industry – that would have happened elsewhere. We're a commodity producer, and we're going to keep producing oil and gas, and then we have to solve the plastic challenge in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e1241	Case No. 2 is then finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-09.ana.ud188e1255	There is no record. As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
