ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e83	The representatives Heidi Nordby Lunde and Svein Roald Hansen, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For Buskerud County: Tone Heimdal Brataas For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Anders Riise For Oslo: Zaineb Al-Samarai From 24 April to 26 April in order to attend the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly in Strasbourg, an application has been submitted to the Workers' Group for a permit for the representative Lise Christoffersen. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The sales representative Anne Helene Sandum is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e125	Anne Helene Sandum is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e136	The representative, Lars Haltbrecken, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e141	On behalf of the representative Kari Elisabeth Kaski and myself, I would like to make a proposal to wind up Norwegian State participation in petroleum activities on Icelandic continental shelf.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e146	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e153	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Svein Harberg. – Other proposals are not available, and Svein Harberg is unanimously elected president of today’s meeting. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16 until today's map has been processed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e175	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, seven rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e182	It is a historical matter of drug reform that we are now discussing, because in the position of the Health and Welfare Committee there is a majority that will change Norwegian drug policy. The majority of the Committee, the Labour Party, the Right, the Progress Party, the SV and the Left, want a new policy in the field of drugs and emphasise that the aim of a drug reform is to prevent, save more lives and ensure dignity by shifting society’s response from the justice sector to the health sector. One should get help, not punishment, for his own drug addiction. At the same time, the same majority is clear that this does not lead to any form of legalisation. The goal is harm reduction and good help to get out of their drug addiction. It may, however, be nice to note to the government and the Council of State Höie that the majority in this matter does not seem to be with their partner, the Christian People's Party. The majority seems to be created by the fact that this is a reform that the Workers' Party and the SV have also called for. As an overall committee points out, as early as 2010, the Stoltenberg Committee in its ‘Report on Drugs’ presented 22 proposals on how the most needy drug addicts can get better help. The proposals relate to prevention, treatment and follow-up, and underlined the need for a holistic approach to drug care. The report has provided the basis for the Labour Party's line within this field in the last years. It is good that the government now comes after, because it provides opportunities to create changes that could mean a better life for those who are struggling with drug addiction. The Labour Party supports the establishment of a public body to look at how we can implement in practice a policy in which people with drug dependence receive help rather than punishment. We also believe that we do not have time to wait several years before we seize this field. Nearly 300 people die every year in Norway from drugrelated deaths. That is why we need action today. It disappoints me that the government does not support any of the proposals that the Workers' Party is promoting today, or supports the Centre Party and SV in. Fortunately, by means of the Christian People's Party, we get a majority, it seems, for the proposal of closer follow-up of parents with drug addiction who have recently had children. It can help these kids get a slightly less demanding start to life. They deserve that, because they have no responsibility for their parents ’ dependence. They deserve society to give them the best possible starting point for success in life. I am also pleased that the opposition stands together and ask the government to extend the outreach offer to heavy drug users, for example. through a reinforced commitment to field nurses. It's about caring about those who work the most, giving those people the best possible quality of life and dignity. When life really is heavier, it's not always as easy to seek help yourself. By the fact that someone comes to you and sees you, we believe that such offers make an important difference. We know that for many who want to get out of their addiction to drugs, debt is a burden, one of the challenges. That is why we in the Labour Party and others who support the proposal are asking for a minimum reduction in fines and fines for their own use of drugs pending the public investigation. For those who want to start a life without rush, it would help to make your path shorter. Unfortunately, the parties do not support our proposal. We also promote proposals to amend the spray room law. The working party wants these user rooms to be developed in the direction of assistance centres. The issue of injection rooms is a difficult question, but we believe that by changing the law as we have proposed today, we can save lives and provide many with a better quality of life. If we can reduce the risk of drug addicts by not injecting heroin as today, the Labour Party believes this would be a wise measure. Unfortunately, the parties to the government are also voting against this measure. We also ask the government to ensure that a wider range of treatment options is available today in LAR and that this treatment is made available throughout the country. Sick people don't get any healthier from being punished. Today, the Labour Party and the majority of the population take an important step towards stopping punishing people for their own drug addiction. At the same time, a lot of work remains in this field. For example, some of the crucial factors in the success of drug reform are: the question of post-protection. In a study a few years ago, 88 pst responded. that the follow-up after treatment for drug dependence had not been satisfactory. Figures from 2015 show that 69 pst. of those who were being treated for their drug dependence, also in the past had been admitted to similar treatment. The Working Party has therefore, together with the rest of the opposition, promoted its own proposal for post-closure protection. I hope that the parties in government will have a constructive approach to that proposal when it is being discussed. Today, in this room, we have an opportunity to contribute to a better life for many who are struggling with drug addiction. If we are to succeed in this, the State Council, Höie and the government must take inwards that, in several of the major questions in this matter, they must look at the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party if a majority is to ensure a necessary change of course in Norwegian policy. I take up the proposals Workerpartiet is with the Center Party and SV about.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e210	The representative, Tellef Inge Mørland, has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e215	First, I would like to thank the case-speaker and the Committee for a good cooperation in an urgent matter. The goal of a drug reform must be to prevent, save more lives, remove stigma and ensure dignity. The representative proposal in document 8:29 is very comprehensive, with eight concrete proposals, several of which are covered by the current law. As revealed by the political platform, the government shows that it is desirable to change the response of the government to people being taken for use and possession of drugs — from punishment to help, treatment and follow-up. By shifting society’s response from the justice sector to the health sector, it will ensure that one provides help and not punishment. Efforts to have coordinated and individualised treatment and follow-up of drug addicts with a primary focus on health care do not lead to any legalisation and offences other than drug use and possession are still to be penalised. The goal is harm reduction and good help in getting out of drug use. The proposal for a representative in document 8:99 highlights the need for a review of treatment and follow-up services as well as societal responses to drug law offences in order to facilitate assistance rather than imprisonment. In addition, the proposal contains fundamental issues such as: exemption from the property of persons with severe dependence or suffering. The description of the problem in question is largely consistent with the starting point for the government’s high stakes in the rubble area through the escalating plan for the drug field. Through the hearing on the proposal for a representative, we note in the committee that there is a great deal of excitement about a public selection in the field of drugs. The government has already named a selection to be announced by 31 December 2019. The government has made considerable efforts to improve its drug policy in Norway, and a large proportion of the funds for the escalation plan are already allocated to the municipalities, which have facilitated increased efforts in the field of drugs in all its municipalities. Finally, I have to say that we look forward to further work, not least good cooperation, in order to improve the situation of addicts.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e228	Russ to joy and to grief – we all know or know about people with drug problems. We've all heard about or know children growing up with addicted parents. Maybe there's more here that's been one of those kids. Many of us also know the human being behind the addiction to drugs and have seen the despair and shame of many. What we also know is that drug dependence is an increasing challenge, but we lack up-to-date and accurate figures on the actual incidence of drug problems in Norway. However, there is reason to believe that between 10 and 20 pst. by the population, i.e. one in ten, suffers from an arousal during the course of life. Drug addiction is a major challenge, both for the addict himself, for their relatives and for society. In addition to its drug dependence, several people have mental and physical disorders, and several of them come into contact with drug settings and start their criminal careers. The Committee agrees that we should have a society that has a duty to provide highly nurturing addicts and to help them to live a decent life. Through the adopted drug reform, it is added that we are doing just that. As you know, the government has already designed a mandate and set up a sample to improve that drug reform. Now work is starting to change Norwegian drug policies and attitudes towards those people who are struggling with their addiction to drugs. The main objective of the reform is to prevent drug dependence and to capture those entering addiction. We move responsibility for the follow-up of drug addicts from justice to health. Drug addicts shall meet with health care. This will include, inter alia: In addition to fines and prison sentences, drug addicts will be offered comprehensive treatment. For the Progress Party, it is important to clarify that the use and possession of drugs should continue to be illegal. The reform does not open up to legalisation. It is also important that we give clear information, especially to young people, that the use of illicit drugs will continue to be illegal. It is also important for us to point out that the primary responsibility for drug policy will continue to lie in the justice sector, while the follow-up to drug addiction is moved from the criminal system to the healthcare system. In parallel with the drug reform, we know that further work will be done on the action plan for the drugs field and on the package of measures in the drugs and health field, with a view to achieving a more comprehensive treatment for the individual. I would also like to give a clear signal that anyone in need of help also needs to be listened to and involved in the decision on the treatment and assistance to be given. It's when you're in the decision, you usually get the best results and can help the individual become drug free. Finally, I would like to say that I record that many people are moving forward Portugal and the Portuguese model as a wonderfully successful example. Yeah, it's definitely something that's good with that model. This about getting help and treatment when you're addicted, instead of being punished and incarcerated, is very good. But I have to say that I still have concerns about crime, and I'm also not sure whether giving young people down to the age of 17-18 is the right thing to do. I'm not sure if it's going to solve the challenges that many drug users are in the middle of. I believe that our most important job is to ensure good treatment for those who are drug addicts, while at the same time we have to do what we can to prevent new young people from being recruited into a life of drug addiction. For me, it's one of my most important jobs, because I've seen and experienced – closely – what drug addiction does to the lives of childhood friends and their families. I don't think so. That's why this job is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e251	The central party believes that the responsibility for drug policy remains in the justice sector, but that the follow-up of drug addicts is moved from the criminal system to the health system. Alternative responses should be a preferred form of response to drug issues related to use and possession. The ban on drug use and possession must be maintained. We do not fully support the decriminalisation of drug use and possession, but we want further decriminalisation, where health care and other follow-up are provided as alternatives to punishment and prosecution. It is central to us that the police will continue to be responsible for and the means of carrying out the preventive work. The fact that something is punishable does not mean that it must be punished. The centre party believes that alternative forms of reaction and assistance and treatment should be used to a much greater extent in cases where it is presumptuously independent of age and must be the preferred form of reaction for young people. And even without a major drug reform, it should be possible, through small changes in current criminal law and case law, to contribute to the non-criminalisation of those suffering from drug abuse for the possession of small quantities or the use of drugs. We have put forward proposals to set up a public selection to improve Norwegian drug policy. We believe that the selection must assess both the role of the police and the health services, including capacity and skills needs. In the view of the Centre Party, the selection should also assess the role and the situation of relatives and the role of voluntary and non-profit organisations in the field of drugs. New measures that can reduce the number of overdose deaths in Norway are also important in such work. The selection must also assess the quality of the LAR and suggest improvements. It is natural that the selection also assesses the measures necessary to improve health care for people with drug dependence, such as measures to combat the spread of hepatitis C. While the committee has dealt with this matter, the government has appointed such a selection, and we are pleased. We are somewhat disappointed with the mandate of the selection, which we do not think is accurate enough. In order to be happy with better care, a wide range of tools is needed, not just for the sake of rational individual measures. I guess that's also what was the success of the Portuguese model. This means that addicts do not only need to be treated properly. Equally important are social follow-up, labour supply, good housing and necessary health care. Removing the stigma of drug addicts to seek health care must be an important objective of what is to be done. We are concerned that new drug policies need to be adapted to the whole country – not only for the big cities, but have measures that can be offered where people live in all parts of the country. Many people are struggling with both drug problems and mental disorders. As a result, drug reform needs to ensure not only the provision of treatment for drug addicts, but also good access to mental health care throughout the country, both in municipalities and in hospitals. There are many today who speak highly and clearly that addiction is a disease, and that people with that disease must be met with health care and not punished with fines and imprisonment. We're a few of them about that. But I thought it was strange then that only SV supports the Central Party's proposal that people with heavy drug dependence should be exempted from health care. I cannot understand how such a reform should be carried out at the same time as one is to continue with the same group's ownership subsystem. I would like to make the suggestions that the Central Party is behind in the setting. And then I'm going to focus on Roman numerals I, which I've been told will no longer have multiples because one in that decision refers to an evaluation of LAR entering into the mandate of the selection and taking place in the work of the selection. We have to listen to that. That is why we have put forward a new, loose proposal, which reads: ‘The government is asked to evaluate the LAR scheme and to promote measures to ensure the content, quality and improvements of the scheme, so that LAR can function optimally.’ So we have removed what refers to the work of the selection. I also want to make that proposal, and I hope that it can get the same multiple.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e277	The representative Kjersti Toppe has promoted the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e282	This is a good day. We are moving towards better times for Norwegian addicts and their relatives. Together, we need to change Norwegian drug policy. We replace punishment, which does not work, with treatment and care, which works. Experience shows that sick people who are struggling with drug addiction often self - medication for other problems. They may have experienced evil things, and the rush can be a very natural means of escape. Penalties do not make the sick healthy; it only adds stone to an already very heavy burden. So this is a good day, but SV is disappointed by the terriblely slow implementation. The Stoltenberg Committee in Norway and the drug reform in Portugal: we know a lot about what works and does not work. It has been eight years since the report of the Stoltenberg Committee — and Portugal is another country. Not everything can be copied directly to Norway today. We can't start tomorrow, but with all the knowledge available, it's not right to ask addicts and their relatives to wait almost two years just for the sample to deliver its report, and then at least one year to get funding into the state budget and legislative changes adopted. At least 982 days of drug dependence have to wait from today for a drug reform that we already agree on. In 2016, there were 220 overdose deaths. That means that up to 600 lives will be lost to overdoses while we are waiting for this drug reform. Therefore, SV suggests that instead we get one year of selection to work out the concrete changes, and that they have to get the resources needed to work more efficiently. Furthermore, we believe that the sample should be given a broader mandate than simply looking at decriminalisation, for decriminalisation is – although SV is very much in favour – only an instrument and not an objective in itself. That is why we propose a third target for the sample: reducing suffering and death, more comprehensive assistance for the whole human being, not just treatment for the drug itself, and preventing drug dependence. This very long selection time is a bit influenced by the fact that some people think they can make a perfect drug reform on a desk in Oslo, and with only one user in the sample and no related representative. Reality has a bad tendency to meet us a little hard in public Norway when we're going to start with a reform and see that not everything works as we thought, because some things we find out only when we meet reality out there. Therefore, SV proposes an ongoing evaluation and improvement of drug reform all the first years, because this is a wiser way to work on implementing such a major change. When the government first wants to spend so many years, there is a great need for immediate action that can stop suffering and death pending the drug reform. Among these, SV proposes to replace fines with simplified prescriptions, to allow addicts to test drugs, so that they do not take poisons or overdoses, that the spray room law can become a user room law – we propose it together with the Workers' Party – and last but not least, that no-one should be punished when they ask for help, such as the 15-year-old girl who reported rape, but instead was fined for marijuana smoking, while the rapist went free. SV proposes a ‘good Samaritan law’, to give impunity for use and possession – even before the reform is ready – when asking for help for yourself or others. I am very disappointed that all the other parties are voting against this proposal, especially when we know that at least one young girl of 15 years has been met in such an unacceptable way in public Norway. It is sad that none of these proposals have a majority today. It had earned addicts and their relatives. However, SV is proud to be part of the bulk of the population who go in to replace punishment by treatment through decriminalisation of drug use and possession. We are disappointed at how slow it is, and that drug addicts and their families are not getting an impact on important direct actions that SV is promoting today on behalf of many of the organisations in the field. I would like to address all the proposals that SV has made, and I would like to inform you that we are also withdrawing from Roman Numeral Decision I, but support the solution proposed by the Central Party. We will also support the sub-proposal No. 5 and 6, on drug contracts – although we are very sceptical about this – on proposal No. 15, from SV, falls. But we will also vote in favour of the Greens' good proposals to review the impact of these drug contracts, for some experience suggests that they are far from as good as anyone is hoping for today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e301	The representative Nicholas Wilkinson has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e306	I agree with the representative Wilkinson – this is a happy day. This is also a kind of anniversary. It has been ten years since the Left stood on this pulpit and promoted a proposal for a representative that is very similar to the important drug work that is now represented in the government's drug reform committee. There must have been some provision or other reason why we are now dealing with a couple of representative proposals, when it was already clear that the government would be working for a drug reform, but we should not see anything wrong in that there are many who want shares in this work. It is very good, although some of these suggestions have to be almost like turning open the doors. The Jelaua Platform attaches great importance to this drug reform work. In our view, it is important – and this is a sort of explanation of vote – not to put too strict a framework around the work of this sample. This is a broad composite sample. They've had a good time. I just see the advantages of working long and well and thoroughly with this, even if it takes a year and a half. However, work will place great emphasis on prevention and harm reduction. We already know that. With regard to Hoksrud’s comment on the Portuguese model, I would like to say that at a meeting of the Committee in Portugal – the Committee is otherwise exceptionally well prepared for this work and was there about at the same time as the Minister of Health was there – we were explained by the Director of SICAD, who is the government organisation working on this reform, which is the result of a legislative change in Portugal from 2003, that perhaps the most important work on this drug reform is the reduction of the stigma around addicts. It seems to me that it is very important to stress from this pulpit today – the stigma that is linked to the fact that this is only about crime and not about health damage. That's what we celebrate today, the reduction of the stigma that has been inflicted on a number of people in an intolerable way. Yesterday we showed in the Stortinges cinema movie Robbery's daughter by Sofia Haugan, and we had a chat with her afterwards. It was a very touching film about the role of relatives in this terrible area. If anyone is wondering where this word «responsive» comes from, it was exactly what this film was -- it was a touching film about this work that is now in its start-up phase, and I hope we can follow along with joy in the future. So I'm going to add at the end that the government is already running a LAR investigation, and that this reform work has already begun to manifest itself by that, over not so much time, we are going to deal with issues related to the reform work. I am absolutely sure that the Minister of Health will clarify today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e322	In the view of the Christian People's Party, the most important thing in drug policy is solidarity with those who struggle, care and treatment for those who have problems, and not least the prevention of harm. There is a need to further develop a Norwegian drug policy that takes account of the prevention perspective, with the aim of maintaining a low level of drug use in Norway and, at the same time, of helping to improve the life situation of the very heaviest users and, not least, of an outreach activity for this particular group. Everyone will meet with respect and care, and we will have good harm-reduction measures. It is important to have control and to stabilise the situation for those concerned. All addicts need the help of the most skilled professionals. The Christian People's Party believes that drug addiction should be treated more as a disease than as a crime. We believe that it is positive that one increases health care, and that it has been a priority in drug policy over the last decades. However, there is a need for much better treatment for many. We are not in the target with regard to good treatment provision. The Christian People's Party believes that the use of alternatives to the punishment of drug addicts is positive, but we believe that there is no decriminalisation that is the way to prevent drug addicts from being fined for the use and possession of drugs. Strict regulation of drugs is important to prevent more people from having problems with drug use. The Norwegian Drug Police Association warns against legalisation in its consultation responses, including: from the point of view of prevention. The Christian People's Party wants the responsibility for drug policy to remain in the justice sector, but that the follow-up of drug addicts is increasingly shifted from the criminal system to the health system. We believe that alternative responses should be preferred in drug-related issues related to use and abuse. We will not support a full decriminalisation of use and possession, but we will further develop a decriminalisation where health care or other follow-up is provided as an alternative to punishment and prosecution. Police must continue to have responsibility and tools for good prevention. The role and presence of police in local and youth settings is very important. As the Norwegian Narcotics Association says, today the police are actively using the law in the prevention work. Research centres for drug addiction and addiction, SERAF, writes in a consultation response that even without a major drug reform, it should be possible to make small changes to current criminal law and case-law possible to contribute to the non-criminalisation of those with a drug problem for the possession or use of drugs. SERAF writes: ‘It would be a step in the right direction if people with a drug problem were not imprisoned on the basis of conditions caused by the disease drug dependence. However, it is considered important to recognise the important and advanced role that police can play in preventing the development of drug problems, including addiction, through the role and presence of police in the local and youth communities.’ Thus, all of us in this room believe that drugs should continue to be banned, but want society’s approach to drug addicts to be a help rather than a punishment. A new drug policy must help maintain Norway’s statistics on relatively low use of drugs in the population and ensure, in particular, prevention among children and young people, so that fewer start up drug use. The goal of Norwegian drug policy still needs to be as high as possible in a sleepless life. The Christian People's Party refers to the committee's recommendation. In the case of you, we understand that it falls. That is why we will support so-called loose proposal No. 24, which is promoted by the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e344	Then we have received the explanation of vote from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e349	For us in the Green Party, this day is a historic milestone. We have been in front of the Russian policy for decades. In Norway and internationally, the Greens have had the courage to support a human drug policy with help and not with a focus on punishment, despite ridicule from other parties and the media. There has been no lack of humor and indications that the Greens must have smoked both one and the other. But we're fine with it. Far worse for those suffering from drug dependence, and the ban line in the world has made life more difficult and dangerous for millions of drug users. That's who this case is about, not us. Today – for both them and us – it now feels great that the world and Norway, albeit slowly, are moving away from the ban and punishment line. Then we're just going to hope that this room too today is willing to adopt the necessary changes now, so we won't do it – in many years and after a lot of suffering – later. The idea that we can scare people away from drugs with punishment has affected people who suffer from drug problems. It should also focus on the unorthodox and fact-based and on the policy that reduces suffering and saves most lives, such as: The Portuguese model demonstrates. The aim of drug policy should be to reduce the suffering and provide help, not punishment, and we are therefore proposing for the first time that we should investigate the legalisation of the trafficking of minor drugs. It is then strange that the Russ reform committee should not even assess a model that can work better than today's model. It is good that there is a broader change of attitude in the world, where drug use is seen as a health problem. In Norway, we also need to dry up the treatment of those who use illegal drugs, such as ordinary people. Just as the health service is concerned about listening to the experience of the sick and getting patients’ user involvement into evaluation and planning, it is also important in this field that we get the perspective of people who are still using drugs. That is why we are also proposing today to include current drug users in the Rusreform Committee. It is a fine wish, as the other parties express here in the debate, to treat drug users with respect, but it obliges them to involve themselves. So why do we stand alone to get current drug users into the sample? It would really break the stigmatisation. Of course, we appreciate the fact that the government is finally going to undertake an investigation of Norwegian drug policy, but we already know more than enough to make changes that improve the situation. We're at the top of the overdose in Europe, so it's urgent to get started. Therefore, it is tragic in the right sense of the word that our proposals today seem to be generally downhearted, for many, many lives could have been saved. As early as today, the Stortinget decided to give priority to drug treatment aimed at children and young people, to provide better information on the field and to increase the possibility of adapting treatment individually, to injection rooms with better health services, to respect the need for voluntary drug treatment, to cut the waiting time for treatment — and more. We know what works, not least from studies in other countries. Instead, the size will wait and vote for more investigation. But the investigation takes time, and before it leads to adopted policies, people suffer unnecessarily for years. We look forward to implementing a more humane and comprehensive change in Norwegian drug policy when it is completed, but we cannot allow the investigation to become a sleep cushion for gripping. Let's start reducing the suffering right now. Let us vote through the proposals for the Green Party today, and hopefully more people are alive and live a better life when the investigation, the new news of big business and the new big business debate are clear and over. That is why I am addressing our proposals today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e372	The representative Per Espen Stoknes has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e377	I am very pleased that there is such broad consensus on the purpose of government drug reform – from punishment to health care. It is a time for Stortinget to deal with the biotechnology report, but I note that at least in this case there are many who claim to be a father. I think that's really just positive. I hear that there are some nuances in the view of assignment, but that is not quite unusual in these kinds of questions either. It is important for me to be clear what is the mandate of the sample to work on the drug reform. The selection shall not address Norwegian drug policy; the sample shall prepare for the implementation of the drug reform. The committee is set up with a competence and a time frame to do this job, not to do a comprehensive investigation of other issues, such as: medically assisted rehabilitation. If the sample had investigated the drug policy in its breadth and in addition had evaluated the LAR scheme in particular, which was originally proposed in Decision I, we would have had to expand the sample in view of the number of people and also given them longer time. It would have delayed the drug reform, which I feel is definitely not a wish in the Storting. I am therefore pleased that this proposal does not appear to have a majority. So a comment on proposal No. 24, from the Centre Party: significant development work is currently under way in the field of medically assisted rehabilitation. The Health Directorate is currently reviewing the national guidelines for LARs. It also assesses the basis for greater freedom of choice, for example. in the case of an extension of the number of drugs which may be used. The Directorate for Health will also be tasked with examining the basis for establishing a pilot scheme for heroin-assisted treatment within the LAR. LAR patients are also included in the package sequences that are now being developed in the drug field. I hope that those who are behind and vote in favour of proposal No. 24, from the Centre Party, does not believe that this work will stop pending any evaluation, as there will be quite significant changes in the area of medically assisted rehabilitation in the near future. Some members of the Committee are concerned about the need to evaluate the reform. I can assure you that we will follow the results and effects of the drug reform. I will also come back in an appropriate way to Stortinget with this. In the vote, the majority of governments ask mothers/parents with drug problems to provide follow-up and investigation. Let me make this quite clear: the right to necessary health care, including investigation, treatment and follow-up services on drug problems, both for municipalities and for specialist health services, covers all groups of users — including, of course, mothers and parents. The provision of adequate services, including treatment and follow-up to drug problems, shall also safeguard vulnerable women without creating specific services for them. I also believe that it is not necessary to ask the government to make offers that are already attached to the right. Policies and package trajectories for the drug field are aimed at improving the provision of services to the target population. The development of separate package trajectories for pregnant women and the multi-disciplinary, multi-disciplinary treatment of drug users in the TSB package trajectory shall consider the need for measures aimed at just family members and other relatives, including minors. Both the guidelines for maternity care and the guidelines for pregnant women in LAR, which include follow-up until school age, are central in this context. We will also strengthen the lowthreshold provision for children and parents with drug problems. The majority will also ask the government to ensure that we expand the outreach offer, for example. through a strengthening of field care. The majority are asking here for a strengthening of measures already adopted by the Storting through the escalation plan for the drug field, which was negotiated between the then government and the Left and Christian People's Party. I don't see the great need to repeat this. It has to be done, but this is a work that is already part of the plan of escalation, which was negotiated between the then government and the Left and Christian People's Party. There is a strengthening of the outreach treatment teams, but also low-threshold health services, which include field care, both through grant schemes and by significantly strengthening the community economy, as a result of the escalation plan. There is no need to ask the government to do something that has already been adopted or that the government is already in the process of doing. The government follows the escalation plan and continues to give priority to the drugs field in national health policy, without having to be asked to do something that we already do.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e400	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e405	I note that the Council of State is well pleased with its own efforts. Nevertheless, I believe that the Council of State has read the opinion of the Committee and note that in the matter of drug reform, the government parties seem to be well off from their partner, the Christian People's Party, on several important issues. Of the opposition parties, the Labour Party and the SV are in charge of giving signals that a change in Norwegian drug policy is needed, where drug addicts are met with help rather than punishment, by amending the legislation. Nevertheless, the government today chooses to vote against several of the proposals we are making – whether in terms of improvements under the LAR scheme, reduction of fines and fines, or changes in the spray room law. How will the Council of State ensure that the views of the Workers' Party and the SV in the field are reflected in the further work on the drug reform, so that a predictable majority is actually obtained?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e412	First of all, I don't think it's any surprise that there's a disagreement about the principle of transferring responsibility from the justice sector to the health sector between the government parties and the Christian People's Party. But I nevertheless feel that the representative of the Christian People's Party draws the Russian policy in the same direction as the rest of the majority in the Chamber. I am, of course, pleased that it is such a broad support for this reform. I am also pleased that a number of the proposals that the Workers' Party and SV are promoting in the matter are fully in line with the escalation plan that the Christian People's Party and the Left negotiated with those who constituted the government at that time. This is a work that is in progress. We are now in the middle of the escalation plan. The government and the cooperation parties have followed the step-up plan also in the field of economics. But of course, we're open to all the good input into that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e419	A short time ago, the Council of State set up its own committee on drug reform to prepare for the implementation of the drug reform, on which he was also from the pulpit. I think that's a wise move. However, what raises some concern for my part is that the sample, when it was set up, was informed of the following: ‘The selection shall make visible how proposals for drug reform can be implemented without increased appropriations.’ In reality, this may be about making the sample visible that the government has to carry out this important reform without spending money, because the government has spent it on other things – on those who have the most from before, not on those who need it the most. Some interventions can certainly be done without costing money, but if the drug reform is to be the best possible, it is difficult to see that it can be done without any fresh means, for example. to an increased focus on after-sales protection. Why has this government chosen to pursue an economic policy that calls on the Council of State to propose a Russian reform on austerity?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e431	One of the areas in which the government, in cooperation with the cooperation parties, has given priority to spending the large amount of money is precisely post-protection and early intervention in the field of drugs. We've committed ourselves to using 2.4 billion. kr. We have followed that up in the budgets that we have submitted afterwards. That is more than what was used when we took over. In addition to Mr. 2.4 billion. kr comes the significant growth that has also been in the field of specialised treatment in those years. So some of the big money we've spent on just this area, and we're going to do that in the future. With regard to the mandate of the panel, the representative refers not to a limitation of the work of the panel. The committee would like to make proposals which also have a cost side. But at a time when we are also going to ensure sustainable well-being, it is useful to challenge this type of selection to also think about the possibility of doing so within the framework of today's framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e438	There is considerable consensus that addicts need to be met with health care to a much greater extent rather than with punishment. These are people who often have no income, they are often out of work, and they often have no housing. At the same time, I now feel that this big business rejects the idea that they do not have to be self-sufficient when they receive health care. If there is now to be a reform in which addicts are to be met much more with health care rather than with punishment, while taking part in this health care from people who are often without funds, I do not think it is right. Does the Council have a view on this issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e444	I do not believe that the parties voting against the proposal of the Central Party, for that reason, believe that they are in favour of the ownership system in this area being exactly as it is today. But I guess you think that that kind of question is something that the Storting usually takes on in the budgetary procedure, because it has an economic impact. In addition, it will also require assessments. I think most people will agree that if you have some kind of drug-use challenge, but are in work, have good income and go to the firm, it would be unreasonable that you don't pay any self-esteem. But then you can see that in other areas, proscissions can be a hindrance to receiving help. Then we have different forms of shielding systems in order to fix it. But being able to look at improvements that lower the aid threshold, I think absolutely is part of the discussion and assessment and must be made on an ongoing basis. But I also understand that the Storting will not now commit itself to taking away excesses without looking at the economic consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e451	Let me first give some commendation to councillor Höie, for I think it has been very impressive to see how a councillor can go ahead, not least in his own party, and be so clear on what changes are needed. This is important steps. So a question of progress, because as Thorvald Stoltenberg, a quite experienced statesman, says, it's very special that it's going to take almost two years from today's date to investigate changes for decriminalization in Norway. We know what has been done in Portugal, we know what is being done by the Stoltenberg Committee. Of course not everything can be copied – it cannot be done tomorrow – but this is a very long time to wait, and at the top of it you have to get through the proposed legislative changes, and we have to get funding in place. If the funding is to enter the State budget, the preliminary starting date is 982 days from now, on 1 January 2020. Can the Council of States guarantee that we will be in the process of this drug reform at the latest on 1 January 2020, or do we have to wait even longer?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e458	What is special about the work of this sample are the short deadlines. This is a legislative selection to make concrete changes to rather extensive laws that are relatively complex. That's why we've given them enough time to do it properly, but still the scarcest time we think is exactly that. I think that Thorvald Stoltenberg, with his long time in government, would be able to confirm if he had gone through the deadlines for the selections that he himself has agreed to reduce. As far as the experience from Portugal is concerned, I believe that the committee heard a lot of the same thing that I heard down there; they were also clear that the processing, doing this thoroughly, is part of the success factors. I think that when we now agree on the goal, we should also agree that we are implementing the process in such a way. In addition, there are quite a number of interests to be heard about this, as we also see in the interest of being in the sample – and that is probably necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e465	What I asked was when the reform could begin. Once again, we get repetitions of this sample, but that's just the first step. I ask because there are a lot of people out there who now wonder how many years they actually have to wait. The council said that Thorvald Stoltenberg would probably have seen that the deadlines were absolutely right if he looked at them. Well, Thorvald Stoltenberg has looked at this. He has spoken in the media and said that he disagrees very much with the progress. You're going to spend two years looking at something that we already know a lot about given what we want to do. It's very, very long, and we know that life is lost every day. Then I'd really like to ask the Council of State one more time. Once we're done with the reform committee, which we'll be in January 2019, you can – if you work quickly in government – get funding in place and everything to the government budget starting in January 2020. Will the Russian reform be underway on 1 January 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e472	After the law is done, this will of course go to the hearing, and then the government, after that, will promote a proposition for the Storting. Then progress is also dependent on Storting's treatment of it, and I can't rely on it. But what is my ambition is that we have now set a timetable for this reform to be finalised and ready for implementation by the Stortinge during this process. That's the frame that it's put up to now. Then, of course, you have to look at the possibilities that lie within it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e477	Then I have a question about something else. The council replied to the Workers' Party that what the Workers' Party and the SV want for the Russ reform is largely covered by the cooperation agreement with, among others. Christian People's Party. I just can't understand votes, so I want to ask more concretely. Firstly, the Arbeiderpartiet and SV do not agree on everything, but SV suggests among other things. to test drugs, because we know that if you do, we can stop overdose and death by not taking drug addicts, for example. toxic substances or an overdose without knowing for themselves that this is what they are doing — if we allow people in the drug settings to test. Then we propose to change the injection room law to a user room law. That's what the Municipality of Oslo, where SV is in charge, has said that they want to, and that they're ready to accept if those changes to the law come. Here are two very specific things, and I would like to ask: is it true that we understood the Council of State correctly, that the cooperation parties intend to implement the proposals proposed here by SV and the Workers' Party? And if the answer is yes, I have to ask, why in the world can't you vote for things you're for?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e484	The last question is a question that repeats itself in these rounds that we have in Stortinget, and it only has to do with something as simple as that the government parties have no need to oblige the government to implement a policy that we already have in the government platform, or are in the process of implementing. The representative will also find that his own SV government councils often joined the Stortinget when SV was in position. Many of the proposals available in this case concerning low-threshold services and services in the municipalities are within the pre-negotiated escalation plan, which is already under way. Then there are a number of other proposals that are covered by the government platform, for example. what the representative addresses in terms of switching injection rooms to user rooms. It is a work that is going well, following the government platform, and, of course, the government parties do not need to vote for proposals that have already been taken care of by the government platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e491	We assume that the government has the same objective as the Greens/Greens/EFA: to resolve the worst problems of today's Russian policy. Some studies show, for example: Legal access to cannabis has been reduced in younger people and reduces overall alcohol use. In 2016, more people died from alcohol use than from the combined use of all illicit drugs. Then it is a little surprising to see that the government does not even want to look at a broadest possible factual basis on measures that can help. Is it really unnecessary for the Council of State to find out whether a drug policy that only accepts alcohol use, but does not regulate the circulation of other minor drugs, is factual and sensible?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e496	There is no majority in Norway for the legalisation of illicit drugs, and therefore asking the sample to investigate it would only help to delay the work of the sample with an important reform, with a question for which there is no political basis. In terms of the knowledge base for legalising minor illicit drugs, it is very thin. There is no basis today to say that this type of drug will be replaced by alcohol, there is much to suggest that it comes in addition to alcohol. Then I agree with the representative that it is the overall drug use in the population that is the biggest public health challenge, and when alcohol is the most common drug, that is, of course, what represents the biggest health challenge. Therefore, Norway has a relatively strict alcohol policy, and that makes sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e503	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e510	We in SV are pleased with the drug reform, but we are also concerned about some of the things in the mandate of the sample, and it is that the sample should make free action visible. So you've seen a need to specify it in particular. All selections can specify free measures, but here is what has been requested. There is no need to show important investments or important developments in the field financially. The only thing that is specified is that there should be free measures, or: ‘The selection shall make visible how proposals for drug reform can be implemented without increased appropriations.’ Differences in power and wealth are increasing dramatically in Norway during this government. You find tens of billions to give in tax cuts to the richest, but when you're going to have a reform for those who might be at the bottom of the table and really need community help, it's going to be done all of a sudden without increased appropriations. This cannot be a free reform, we have to invest in the community and the drug reform if it is to be good. Then I understand – and I choose to interpret the sample so – that it's also possible to increase the funds – we get at least hope – but I'm very concerned that there's so much pressure being put on it that it's going to be a free reform when you talk about those who need us the most. Oslo Municipality, where SV is in charge, is looking forward to the drug reform. They have the measures clear, but are clear that they need appropriations from the Storing. They want to do more for prevention among young people, they want to ensure education, work, housing, the large health services for drug addicts, not just drug treatment, and not least better follow-up and after-care, where the entire opposition has already gathered on a proposal for a representative with which the Workers' Party has worked particularly hard, in order to ensure better after-care for drug users. This will cost resources. In addition, SV has now submitted proposal No. 17, which unfortunately the government parties and the rest of the opposition seem to be willing to vote against, to expand the LAR and to secure enough resources for personal follow-up, even until the drug reform is ready. SV is looking forward to cooperation for a good drug reform for Norway, but it is important for us to say the same thing as we have been clear in the remarks, that when the differences in power and wealth increase in Norway, it is not that there is only tax cuts to the richest ones that need to be prioritised in the future. We also need to prioritise a strong investment — strong, increased resources — to make this drug reform an investment reform that can make life better for very many of those in Norway who are at the worst today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e525	I usually do not go into detail about the proposals of other parties in this Chamber, at least not when the representative of the party has left the Chamber, but the proposals No. 20–23, from the Greens/Greens/EFA, gives me a good opportunity to say something about the government's work and the role of the Left in the matter of drug addiction in the future. The representative Stoknes was sorry not to get a majority for these proposals – but let me check them out – to ask the government ‘reducing waiting time in the care of drug users and avoiding interruptions in treatment, by facilitating a wider range of services and ensuring a good financial framework.’ [[...]] Yes, if the representative Stoknes heard the health minister's hospital speech this year, he would see that this has already been taken care of. ‘establish a stronger health care provision for drug users and heavy dependence in larger cities, by ensuring that health and social workers are available in public spaces.’ [[...]] This is the main content of the drug reform process in the future. ‘establish user rooms in the larger cities [[...]] [[...]] This is already going on, as the Minister of Health quite rightly said. ‘provide good information on drug treatment and pregnancy’. [[...]] It's on. A visit to the Strax House in Bergen would give Stokne's representative insight into this. ‘create close cooperation between treatment providers’ and ‘interest organisations’ [[...]] [[...]] This work is in progress. ‘priority action to children and young people who are related or addicted to drugs.’ [[...]] This is explicitly stated in the Jeløya platform. ‘creating good cooperation between schools and the health sector, in order to ensure good information on drugs, drugs and availability among young people.’ [[...]] We hardly need a suggestion in Stortinget to go into it. This work is in progress in the municipalities, as far as I know. ‘to encourage stakeholder organisations with different approaches to care to receive support for information work and work against drug dependence’.» [[...]] They'll get it. And then finally: ‘replace drug-using therapy with complete and flexible medical evaluation by qualified treatment.’ [[...]] [[...]] This work is in progress. Then the Council of State has responded well to proposal No. 21, which is about assessing a regulated turnover. It is a question that I share the views of the Council of State, but there is nothing in the way that the parties can consider investigating this on a private-sector basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e582	It's rare you're witnessing a physical shift in Norwegian politics, but that's what we're witnessing here today. If the Stortinget had been a boat, we would have known that it tilted quite hard when we changed course. We are witnessing a shift from punishment to treatment for people who are addicted to drugs. It is a deep recognition that underlies this — a recognition that you do not become less dependent or get better health from being punished for your dependence. What may surprise me most is how controversial this is, after so many years of a completely different line in drug policy, and that Norwegian public opinion is also able to distinguish between decriminalisation and legalisation. I actually didn't expect that. I thought there would be more trouble about it. With regard to what has been done in Portugal, we cannot directly imitate it in Norway. We have other relationships, we have other challenges, we have different solutions. But there's something that has impressed me deeply about what's happened there, and it's that you have a principle that everyone should have access to treatment when they're motivated for it. So the question is, how can you access it? Is the treatment in line? It depends on how to define it. This could be done, for example, by: be as simple as access to therapy conversations, access to someone to talk to as a start to treatment. What also impressed Portugal was the attitude to enable people to live their lives, with their friends, with their families, and to work, so that drug addiction does not become what defines all that you are in your life. So we hope that this happens fast enough, so that those people who depend on this line shift get it in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e599	First, two brief comments to the representative Wilkinson: firstly, as I also replied in the reply: the committee has of course a mandate to also propose measures that cost money, but I also think it is a good exercise for such a selection to think through whether it is possible to take action within the framework that is, without imposing any further restrictions on the work of the committee. Then the representative Wilkinson had a reference to his party traps in Oslo, waiting for appropriations. Then I'd like to ask the representative Wilkinson to take up with his party traps that they can start by using the funds they get from the state as a result of the escalation plan, for the purpose. That would be a good start in Oslo. I very much agree with what the representative Siv Henriette Jacobsen just said, and I am very pleased that through this debate we are getting the significant political majority behind such a shift. What we have to take inwards is that very many of those who develop a serious drug addiction do so because they have met crime as children and young people. They have met crime in the form of violence and assault, often from their neighbors. It's bad to think that society's reaction, when a developing disease and addiction as a result, has been to make them criminals. That's really what the Storing is taking a settlement with us today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e608	It is a good day for many – for families and for those who are struggling directly with rushes and, of course, also in view of the heavy load that is on many of their closest ones. For us in the Labour Party, this is an important milestone. All the way from the Stoltenberg Committee, and also earlier than that, there has been a burning commitment to making changes and signaling from this hall a change of mind and a dignity for these patients, and I strongly support what the Council of State said in its last post. We have had a good debate. I take the floor for an explanation of vote on behalf of the Labour Party. We are going out of the proposal in the vote, and we are going to support proposal No. 24, promoted as a loose proposal by the Kjersti Toppe of the centurion. To the proposals that have been put forward in the Chamber, by Per Espen Stoknes on behalf of the Greens, we have great sympathy for several of the points in proposals. 20, 21, 22 and 23, but as they're locked in, we can't vote for them today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e615	In Norway, we have done too few of our drug addicts. Both the political will and the understanding that we need to offer better treatment, and not least follow-up after treatment, are great. There is a broad consensus on strengthening drug care, and that we also see care in the context of mental health protection. Care is about basing the needs of the addict, their families — and society’s needs. What is behind the decisions we make? What's the goal? What do we want to achieve, and what is the motive behind our political actions? The objective of drug treatment and drug treatment should be the same as that of other diseases, as we do, for example. think about cancer care and treatment: taking care of, treating and following up. Today, 7,500 people in Norway are dependent on heroin – 7,500 individual ships that we all want to help. I think we can learn something from what Portugal has done, but I also think we should ignore a lot of what Portugal has done. Portugal has, despite increasing challenges today — even after 20 years of reform — than Norway has. I have to say that I am very excited about the result and the recommendations that the reduced sample will come back to about approx. one and a half years. I record that the rapporteur of the case, from the Labour Party, says that addicts do not stop rushing themselves if they are at risk of being punished. I fully agree with that. But at the same time it is completely irrelevant in this context because the desire to give people a new chance after treatment in isolation can be fulfilled without any reform. For the Advancement Party, it is important to stress that care and drug treatment are all about providing all possible help – the best possible treatment – but also follow-up when returning to society, with activity, schooling and work: providing new, good and positive networks, ensuring that an old and bad life is replaced by a new and better life with completely different opportunities. This is what drug treatment in practice must be about. We can do that by building on what we're good at and changing what we're not as good at. We have to make demands on the municipalities regarding the follow-up. Perhaps we could also look at new opportunities in prevention to prevent more people from becoming addicted to drugs. The government has agreed to implement a drug reform aimed at ensuring better provision for drug addicts. It is at the bottom of our willingness to sit in government and help improve Norwegian drug policy. For the Progress Party, it is important to say that we have said no – we say no, and we are going to say no – to all forms of legalisation of drugs. At the same time, we agree to make Norwegian care better. That's what underpins our vote today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e630	There has been a good and clarifying debate. As I understand it, there are some parties in this room that should have liked to have seen you want to legalize. It's definitely not me and the Progress Party. I have to go back to the representative Wilkinson, who is constantly talking about the big differences that are coming. Then I have to remind the representative Wilkinson that if he had gotten a pass on his wish to shut down the oil taps in the North Sea again, there would not have been much money left for the good welfare of neither drug users nor others. I experience a representative who still doesn't want to talk about what you actually did when you were in government, but is much more concerned about talking about what others don't. In fact, the difference between SV and the Advance Party and the government is that we have adopted an escalation plan of 2.4 billion. kr for the care of the cattle. It did not do the red-green and SV when they were in government, and it is quite essential to have it in this debate. I actually think it's good to say to the sample: Is it possible to do things in a smarter and better way to provide better treatment without necessarily having to cost more money? We've said that we want a step-up plan of 2.4 billion. It's also important to bring with you. When you refer to the Stoltenberg Committee's report, which was completed in 2010, and you're dissatisfied with the fact that things are going a little late: why didn't you do something when you were in government? In fact, they had several years – SV put in government from 2010 to 2013, and they put in government before that too, so it would have been possible. But that's when there's a change, and I'm really happy about that. At the end of the 1990s and early 2000s, I talked a lot to John Alvheim, who was one of the champions of drug users in this country. We discussed a lot about that we had to make sure that when you have a major drug problem, it's about a disease, and you have to get help to get well. It's some of the things that are actually behind, and I'm glad you're still following up now. However, there must be no statement that nothing has happened in the drug field in the last 30–40 years. It's actually happened a lot, and we're busy giving treatment. I think it is important that there is a broad majority in the United Kingdom that is behind the grips you are now taking, that you should receive treatment instead of punishment when you are addicted to alcohol and have a dependency. I believe it is important to be early outside and prevent and say that it is not a legalisation. That is not the basis for the drug reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e643	The representative, Nicholas Wilkinson, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e648	I very much agree with the last Bård Hoksrud said, that much has happened in Norwegian drug policy in the last 20-30 years, also very well under the red-green government. But it would have been very strange about SV when supported decriminalisation, because SV was against decriminalisation, and we're implementing what we have in our program. I'm proud that SV has turned around since that time – you have to be honest with that. In terms of providing more resources: it's not very difficult to provide more resources when you've increased the government budget deficit by 100 billion. kr. We have a government that spends money on full seamen, there's nothing to brag about. The important thing here is what the Progress Party also said: Can't we just give better follow-up without decriminalizing? The answer is no. One cannot in isolation provide better follow-up without decriminalising, because drug users fear asking for help. They don't dare to talk about their problems, they don't dare go to the police, they don't dare go to the clinic and be open about everything that's going on in their lives – like the girl of 15 years who reported rape, the rapist went free, and she was met with a fine for marijuana smoking. Such problems need to be solved.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e657	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e673	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e682	In Norway, we have had our own overdose strategy since 2014. The main objective of the strategy was to reduce the number of fatal overdoses, among others: by providing life-saving relief after overdoses as quickly as possible. However, measured in the number of overdoses, it may seem that the strategy has not worked. The Labour Party proposers have suggested that a new overdose strategy is needed. This is now the rest of the Storting agrees on. The councils have also joined it. In its letter to the Committee, the Minister of Health wrote that the Directorate of Health will be tasked with developing a new national overdose strategy which will also include new measures targeting new target groups and drug overdoses that we have not had in Norway in the past. This applies, according to the letter of reply, for example: painkiller. A joint committee believes that an overdose strategy must address the necessary measures to ensure the proper practice of the distribution of medicinal products in the LAR. A joint committee also suggests that a new overdose strategy must focus on interventions during risk periods for overdose, such as after treatment outsourcing and end-of-life. The Committee also points out that overdose prevention is part of the follow-up to drug treatment and calls for the necessary follow-up and rehabilitation. A joint committee also points out that a new overdose strategy must include effective measures to improve interaction between specialist health services, community health services, relatives and other networks in the follow-up and rehabilitation after further treatment. The Committee’s plurality, the members of the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the SV and the Christian People’s Party, indicate that the most frequent cause of death for drug-induced deaths in Norway in 2016 was no longer heroin, but other opioids, such as the legal drugs morphine, codeine and oxycontin. The Christian People’s Party and the Center Party point out that the overdose strategy we have is not about alcohol deaths. We believe that a new strategy should also address measures to reduce alcohol poisoning and death. In 2015, there were 349 alcohol-induced deaths in Norway, and there was no count of deaths where alcohol consumption was significant. We also show that a strategy must address the ambulance services and the role of the medical profession. It is a joint committee which supports the proposals for Decisions I and II. A minority have additional suggestions in the setting, and I want to include these.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e697	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e702	In 2016, 135 people died on our roads – 135 for many. In 2017, the figure was 107 – the lowest in 70 years. Through targeted work, one of the last decades has reduced traffic mortality. In 2016, 282 deaths in druginduced deaths died. 289 and 266 were the numbers in 2015 and 2014 – numbers that don't go down. Behind the numbers we find people. Around are parents, grandparents, siblings, and friends, who have lost someone they love, and have changed their lives. When we can succeed in a very important road safety work, it should inspire us to do something about the excessive number of drug-induced deaths. Based on the Stoltenberg Government’s proposals in the ‘See Me!’ headline announcement, in 2012, the Health Directorate launched an overdose strategy for the period 2014–2017 with the aim of reducing the number of overdose deaths annually and with a long-term zero vision for overdose deaths. The existing overdose strategy was running out without a new one in progress. Therefore, before Christmas, the Labour Party proposed a new overdose strategy. Norway is about the average in Europe in mortality among young drug users, but we still have a higher proportion of overdoses than many countries. One reason for this is that Norwegian drug addicts inject more heroin, which in turn increases the risk of fatal overdose. We also know that the risk of overdose is significantly higher right after one comes from treatment at home or from prison. In order to reduce the number of overdose deaths, it is therefore essential that a person leaving the institution is informed of this danger and not least that a person receives better follow-up in the municipality of residence, job and activity. To succeed in the work, we also have to assume that people die in different types of overdose deaths. In the statistics on overdose deaths in Norway, it is estimated that one in three deaths is associated with strong drugs. We must realize that we have not been good enough in the prevention work in this field. In some cases, medicinal products intended initially to make people healthier may help some end up in the statistics on overdose deaths. I am pleased that the rest of the opposition seems to support us in that this needs to be incorporated into the new overdose strategy. I am also pleased that a new overdose strategy now appears to be underway after the Workers' Party took up the matter. Many of those who struggle with drug abuse have experienced that society has failed them in the past. A good overdose strategy can be an important contribution to setting them up instead of failing them again. The results of the road safety field show that targeted work produces results. It should inspire a new overdose strategy with tools to ensure that 282 new people do not end up in the statistics on drug-induced deaths every year.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e719	Work on overdoses has a long-term perspective, and key measures in the overdose strategy have been continued, which is also reflected in the State budget for 2018, where all measures are passed on. The political platform of the government also makes it clear that this work should be strengthened. Thus, efforts to reduce overdoses and deaths are not weak after 2017, although the national overdose strategy was launched in 2017. The Minister has shown in his letter of reply that he is giving the Directorate of Health the task of developing a new national overdose strategy, which, in addition to building on actions already undertaken, will also include new measures targeting new target groups and drug overdoses that we have not had in the past to a particular extent in Norway. In addition, other harm-reduction measures and drug-related drug-use packages, which are also mentioned in the policy platform, will be provided. Working on this matter in the Committee and also in the comments, we see that there is complete agreement on the need for an up-to-date and targeted overdose strategy. We are looking forward to the Minister, as a warning, coming back to Stortinget in an appropriate way when the Health Directorate has delivered its draft to its new national overdose strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e730	Norway is at the top of Europe in overdose deaths: 220 died in 2016, and there were many more drugrelated deaths. This is an important and good proposal from the Workers' Party, supported by SV. All lives are as much worth, no matter where we are in life right now. It is worth remembering, because the differences in power and wealth are increasing in Norway, and the need for a safety net is too many more important than ever. One of the problems we are seeing today is an increasing number of overdose deaths. The book ‘The Price of inequality’ shows how countries with increased differences in power and wealth also face many major social problems, including: increased drug use. The proposals include several measures to stop overdoses, affect users and relatives, and a new overtime overdose plan. These are important proposals supported by SV. In particular, I would like to raise the need for medicines to be included in the plan. Many people are affected by this problem today – I have been contacted by relatives of patients who have received medicines they have not even known to be addictive, and who, when they try to stop, are told by their decision-maker that then they cut it across – during the day. These are people with an incredibly strong addiction that overnight loses what has in practice become their drug, with terrible consequences, in the form of pain and physical problems. We have major challenges in health care today to know how to treat and help people who have become addicted to drugs, both to detoxify them and not least to get them out of the drug in a calm and controlled way, which does not create the major problems we have today. We are very pleased with this good proposal from the Workers' Party, which SV wholeheartedly supports.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e747	A new national overdose strategy is needed, and we still need a zero vision. One overdose is one too much. We have no one to lose. Having received patients who have relatives around them and who are unable to save because they have chosen – or have not chosen – but have been subjected to – drugs that actually cause them to lose their lives creates challenges for families around them. Having a strategy to meet this in a good way is incredibly important. When the Christian People's Party does not vote in favour of the Workers' Party's proposal, it is not because we do not believe in the need, but because the Council of State has informed that he, already, has asked the Directorate to develop a new strategy, and then we support it. The Christian People's Party also supports the motion for a resolution, I and II. In mind, we want to ensure that users, relatives, professional communities, academia and other relevant actors have a real influence on the design of a new overdose strategy. We think that knowledge is very important to bring with it. In addition, the Christian People's Party supports the proposal in II, which is about including painkillers in this national overdose strategy. It's because you see that there's more access to painkillers today, different drugs, drugs that together beat out much stronger than drugs. This is why it is important both to get knowledge and to bring it into a new strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e756	The number of overdose deaths in Norway is alarmingly high. Everyone in this room agrees, and I am therefore pleased that there is a great deal of commitment to bringing down overdose deaths in Norway. Work on overdoses must continue. This is a long-term, but also demanding, work. A new overdose strategy therefore needs to have a long-term perspective, but needs to be evaluated along the way. I would like to suggest that the new overdose strategy should last for a further four years, but that it should be evaluated after that. We need answers as to whether the measures have worked. A new strategy must be based on the good experience already gained, where the distribution of Nalakson nasal spray is a central measure. Today it is approx. 15 cities where Nalakson nose spray is distributed. In a new overdose strategy, it would be natural to consider a further extension of this scheme. As the Committee's position shows, the challenges we are still facing have been addressed in depth. Based on all available knowledge, while involving the user in the work, a new overdose strategy is fully in line with how I imagine a new overdose strategy can be developed. Experts on overdose problems, including user representatives, were key premiscuous suppliers of the measures of the strategy that expired at the end of the year. The overdose strategy was based on scientific recommendations and in line with WHO guidelines and the recommendations of the United Nations Office on Drugs. This is also a prerequisite for the new strategy. In my view, then, there will be no need for a separate expert committee to do so. In my reply to the Stortinget on 25 January this year, I briefed that the Health Directorate will be tasked with developing a new national overdose strategy. A new strategy will include, in addition to building on the measures already taken, new measures aimed at new target groups and measures to reduce overdoses caused by drugs that we have not had in the past to a particular extent in Norway. This applies, inter alia, to: painkillers, fentanyl, etc., of which we see increasing use in many countries. In addition, other harm-reduction measures are included. I also believe that the forthcoming package sequences in the drug field, also mentioned in the government’s political platform, will be an important contribution to reducing overdoses. In conclusion, I can inform you that the mission to the Health Directorate has not been formally transmitted, pending Storting's examination of this proposal for a representative. The Health Directorate is briefed and will start work as soon as the assignment has been sent to the Directorate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e769	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e775	It is good that the Council of State has responded positively to a new overdose strategy after the Workers' Party took up the matter. The number of overdose deaths in Norway is alarmingly high, said the Council of State from the pulpit now. It's easy to agree with. The state councils have been responsible for the drug field over the last four years for which the last overdose strategy was designed. Unfortunately, during this period, there has been no decrease in the number of overdose deaths, as the objective was. It does not necessarily mean that the strategy did not contain important and correct measures, nor is it unreasonable to assume that the number of overdose deaths could be even higher if one had not had such an overdose strategy. But in view of the fact that overdose deaths have remained stable, too high a level over the Höie period as Minister of Health, is there anything in this field he wants to take self-criticism for? What does he want to do in that case, and can one now have a expectation that the numbers are going to go down?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e780	I fully agree with the description. Working with overdose deaths is complicated and complex, and we have to take that into account. It's always possible to do things better. I believe that in the previous case, and also with part of the other measures in the government platform, we will strengthen the work on further harm reduction measures. Of course, it could have been done earlier, but that's now there's a political basis for it. So we know that some of the overdoses are taken in the transition after treatment or prison. I am therefore concerned about putting in place the notified scheme that municipalities are getting a responsibility to pay for outpatients who are ready to print in drug treatment. In this way, you will ensure better coherence in the service, so that not one hand drops the roof until a new hand has taken over. That's where I think there's also a lot to pick up in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e787	One of the issues to be addressed is the question of injecting rooms or user rooms in the case of overdose deaths. It's a difficult question, because it puts us in some ethical dilemmas. However, the working party believes that user rooms are appropriate to help drug addicts. In injection rooms, one today can inject heroin. However, smoking heroin is less harmful to the body. One releases infections and bullies, and there is no risk of infection. In addition, it is almost impossible to take overdoses in case of smoking. One of the first things Höie did when he became the Council of State was to put a proposal from former Minister of Health and Care Jonas Gahr Støre, to open up heroin smoking in injection rooms, in a drawer. In 2016, however, the Left, together with us, promoted a proposal to say yes to smoking in the injection rooms. Government parties are now working with us and SV to open up drugs other than heroin to drug injection in user rooms. In addition, heroin-assisted treatment is opened in LAR. What new drugs will the Council of State open up in user rooms, and he agrees that an opening to smoke heroin in user rooms could help reduce overdose deaths, as the Left co-operated with the Labour Party in 2016, or will he park the Left in government in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e792	Both parts are now part of the platform and also part of the Right Program. I have worked to get my own party to take a different position on this matter. There is therefore a basis for both the establishment of user rooms, the extension of user rooms to the injection of drugs other than heroin, and the use of user rooms for training in the smoking of heroin. So there's reason to be careful about exaggerating what meaning this might have. Until recently, we have had an injection room in Norway. Heroin smoking, training and the provision of the device have been part of the previous overdose strategy through the SWITCH campaign. Many smaller measures will hopefully all be able to contribute in this area, but most municipalities will probably not choose to have a user room as a measure in this area, because there is considerable need for resources in relation to the results.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e799	The Council of State now says that he wants to facilitate training in the smoking of heroin, and he also refers to the SWITCH campaign, which has tried to transfer users from injection to smoking. Is it to understand, then, that only training in smoking heroin in user rooms will be provided, or will it be possible instead of injecting, to smoke heroin in user rooms, with the consequence, hopefully, that fewer end up taking overdose?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e804	Yes, it will be possible to smoke in user rooms to learn how to use and smoke heroin. Then there's probably no reason to think that many of those who switch to smoking heroin will do it in the user's rooms, because the user's rooms are a place to seek help if an overdose is taken. There is no particular risk of smoking. There are probably many other nice places to sit and smoke heroin than in the user rooms.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e809	The previous overdose strategy was entitled ‘Yes, you can become drug-free — but first you have to survive’. Then we know that one has not had the number of overdoses, despite the strategy. I respect that this is difficult, but what has surprised me is that we know from reports from the Health Directorate that only two out of ten municipalities have procedures for following up people who have been admitted with overdose. Just as I think I'm unacceptable, because there's a patient group that should really be followed up by the municipality, that's exactly this one. A new strategy must be expected to work better than the previous one. My question is: what will the Council of State do to follow up on this as I point out – that very many of those who have taken overdose are far too little followed up in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e816	This is a very central issue, which I was also concerned with in a previous answer. We are working on a number of measures to ensure better systematics in the follow-up of municipalities, both by strengthening the offer through the escalation plan, using this with payment for patients who are ready to print, and also at the package lead-in, in order to ensure better follow-up in municipalities. In the overdose strategy now, a specific job has been done with the nine municipalities with the highest number of overdoses, in order to make them work more systematically. But I also see that these municipalities do. That is the kind of action we need to look at whether we can strengthen and improve in the new strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e823	The opposition, against the votes of the government parties, receives a majority for II, where we ask ‘the government to incorporate measures against overdoses with strong analgesics into a new national overdose strategy’. It's a pleasure. However, the most important thing to stop overdoses is to stop addiction in the first place and to use it wisely when first on addictive drugs. So we're not just worried about the actual overdose, but about the addiction that starts. Then I really want to ask the Council of State a slightly open question – a prayer and a half a question – because this is important for SV: Will the Council of State do more to work with the Medical Association and others in the health field to get a better use of addictive drugs and better treatment of these patients than today?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e830	Yes, and I have also confirmed that what is in II will be part of the new overdose strategy. So to the point that the representative goes on to make: I fully agree that we need to work even better on how to ensure a safe and good practice, not least in the firm, with regard to the use of painkillers that are also addictive. We now have good experience in the fight against antibiotic resistance by providing colleague guidance and specialised guidance to the firm. It's a working method that I think can be useful to also use to ensure a more correct use of this type of medicine.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e837	Then the line chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e843	I have been made aware that unfortunately I said the error in my first post. It's not a collective committee that's behind Roman acts, it's the Labour Party, the Center Party, SV and the Christian People's Party. So it's corrected up. However, when said, I would like to say two words about Decision II, which is taken here, to ask ‘the government to incorporate measures against overdoses with strong analgesics into a new national overdose strategy’. In fact, I find it unfortunate that this cannot only be a co-consultant decision, because the Committee says exactly the same thing in a comment, where the Committee supports the development of a new overdose strategy and that it should also include measures aimed at new target groups and drugs. The Council of State has said exactly the same in its reply to the Committee. I can understand that something that's already going on is not going to happen, but it looks a little bit better that there's a bunch of stuff behind the decision when, after all, there's going to be multiples.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e850	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e866	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines of reply are available after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e875	First of all, I would like to thank the Cooperation Committee. In Norway, we mainly have a health service that we can be proud of and that delivers good results measured against what other countries achieve. And that's where our ambitions should lie. Our common health care should be available to everyone, and there should be access to high-quality treatment for us who live and live our lives here. Compared to other countries’ health services, there are in particular three areas where Norway should work to improve quality: admissions to coal, hospital infections and vaccination coverage in the paediatric vaccination programme. The latter is particularly frightening in view of recent meslin outbreaks in Europe and elsewhere in the world. Errors, deficiencies and deviations reported through the annual messages can be linked to the different focus areas such as: The state's health authorities and state officials have had. It is important to note that such a notification does not give an overall picture of the quality of healthcare. An overall committee draws particular attention to the outcome of the nationwide oversight of adult health and care services with developmental disabilities. It revealed a crime in all 45 out of 57 municipalities. The Committee is strongly critical of the insufficient functioning of the services of this vulnerable user group and considers that the site should be closely monitored in further quality development work. I myself have been rapporteur in a municipality where such a service was found to differ. It was right after I took over as rapporteur, but there is no need to pretend that this is about party politics. It is simply a lack of focus from the local populace of the country. Here, together, across party boundaries and municipal boundaries, we have to look in the mirror and realize that we haven't been good enough. I would recommend KS to pay particular attention to offers to people with developmental disabilities in its popular education programme. As politicians, we often meet press groups with strong figures and concrete messages. In the ombudsman role, we all have to remember a little bit more well those who have the weakest voice. The Committee considers that once failures and injuries have occurred, they must be used for learning to reduce the risk of similar errors in the future. The Committee welcomes the drawing up by the Directorate-General for Health of so-called learning notes in the light of the findings of the notification system, in order to prevent future failures. However, the Committee believes that greater care should be taken to ensure that the learning notes contribute to real learning in the sector and not just stay on the Health DG’s websites. The potential for learning from your own faults seems to be poorly exploited. Reporting for the purposes of reporting has no value. On the contrary, this is unnecessary bureaucracy. With the right skills, sufficient capacity and good communication, the quality of the Norwegian healthcare system will be high.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e892	The Government promotes an annual notification of quality and patient safety in healthcare in Norway. This is the fourth message that has been promoted. The Communication draws attention to areas where there is a need for improvement in healthcare services and therefore does not give an overall picture of the quality of healthcare. Health and care services in Norway achieve good results in many areas. Norway, on the other hand, is cutting worse than the OECD average in terms of patients’ experience with their regularity. Both Norway, Denmark and Sweden also have a high incidence of hospital infections. The patient and user representatives consider that there is a serious legal security problem that the knowledge of complaint handling and patient rights is inadequate in healthcare. They include: concerns about the processing time of some county offices, the availability of telephone calls by permanent doctors, recruitment of permanent staff in the districts, the treatment time of the patient injury department, the time spent in patient care courses after the first consultation and the variation between municipalities in the assistance services for families with extensive help needs. Furthermore, there is a discussion about whether young people between the ages of 16 and 18 are going to pay indebtedness on the part of the permanent resident. We consider this to be a budgetary issue that does not belong in this context. The notification also reveals that the management of municipalities does not have an adequate understanding of the situation of users and does not demand and control whether the services are operated properly and with the required quality. Furthermore, detention in institutions, measures to reduce mobility and the use of prescription drugs are the most common coercive measures. In care services to adults with developmental disabilities, 45 of the 57 municipalities surveyed reported offences. The majority of the events received by the notification scheme in 2016 were related to clinical processes/procedures followed by medicinal products. Learning notes are drawn up in the light of the findings in order to prevent future failures. These notes should contribute more to real learning in the sector and not just to the Health DG’s websites. Health status in Norway is generally good, with high life expectancy and low mortality after heart attack and stroke. Waiting times are reduced, health cows are reduced and more people are treated. All of this is evidence that the government's policy is working. Fewer waiting, and waiting shorter time, while more people are being treated, shows that we are on the right track. Patients’ healthcare requires good quality and patient safety. It requires action both at system level and in terms of culture and management. The annual Quality and Patient Safety Notice to the EEAS cannot go deep in individual areas, but it must be used together with other sources of health care knowledge to ensure equal access for all patients to good and safe health care. Learning from their mistakes and looking for weaknesses is important in all improvement work. We are therefore pleased that the government continues to provide this communication every year and so invites Stortinget to debate the state of the Norwegian healthcare system.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e913	There will always be risks associated with hospitalization. It has been and will always be, but what is important is that we minimize that risk. There's a potential. That said, of course, Norwegian health services are among the best in the world. We have very good results in many areas. We offer treatments that, for a few generations, we could only dream about, and that many other countries envy us. But it's clear that patient safety work is something we can in any case be better at. It's a continuous work, and it's very important that we get a debate in the Storting about this, because there are unfortunate events and deaths due to things that could be built up, and it's our job to secure it. There are challenges in the message and areas where there is a need for improvement. Errors and unfortunate events happen even if we have one of the world's most developed health services. The background to these annual messages, to which I have been very positive, is the big message that came in 2012, from the red-green government, about quality and patient safety. What has been a discussion now is whether these annual messages actually fulfill their function or whether they become too descriptive. Are they leading to the strengthening of patient safety work in Norway? Does it have a consequence? I would like to remind you that KS described the message as a deviational reform on the phone. I also feel that this is a message where we do not have the practice of making proposals. There is agreement on that in the committee, but I feel that the plural comments in a way do not get the respect they deserve. Among other things, a joint committee last year commented on the need to evaluate the reform of the decision-making process. Nothing happened before the Stortinge adopted an identical proposal during the chronology debate in the fall. There was an evaluation then. So I ask myself, what effect do these plural comments have, and what does this message contribute to improving this work? Therefore, the Central Party makes a proposal for a new parent message based on an evaluation of the previous and these annual messages, so we can get a new one... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e926	The representative Kjersti Toppe has drawn up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e931	For the fourth consecutive year, the government is presenting a quality and patient safety report. An annual compilation of the main features of several sources gives us insight into risk areas that require attention and follow-up in the service. The fixed sources used in the notification are annual reports and reports from the patient and user representatives, the State Health Inspectorate, Norwegian Patient Compensation, the Health Directorate’s reporting system, as well as national and international quality indicators. The message points to some ongoing challenges that we need to work systematically with over time. These include documentation, information flow and communication, safe and close-to-service transitions, and service-level compliance with procedures, policies and legislation. We've had a happy increase in the number of quality indicators. The data show that the results vary across most indicators. Based on the sources and the treatment of the Storting's last year's notification, this year's report focuses more on municipal health and care services, mental health protection, drug use and prevention of infection. These areas concern vulnerable patients and users and areas where patient safety is a major challenge. The message points to selected actions that have been implemented or started. Overall, the actions shall contribute to meeting these challenges. This Communication is itself not an action plan with concrete actions, but it is important to identify challenges underlying planning and service development at all levels of the service. The challenges identified in the Communication are also a basis for the government’s work on other key messages, strategies and action plans, including: the next national health and health plan. It is my goal that patients and their relatives experience a health care service that is available, related to them, involving them, that health care works as intended, and that one avoids unnecessary complications and damage in the course of the course. Creating the patient’s healthcare is about good quality and patient safety. It requires action at system level, but also in the field of culture and management. An annual notification to the EEAS on quality and patient safety cannot go deep in individual areas, but it must be used, together with other sources, for knowledge of quality and patient safety in planning, implementation, evaluation and correction of healthcare, in order to ensure that all patients have an equivalent access to good and safe health care. That is what is meant by this annual notification. It's also giving the Storting an overview of what the status is. It is not intended as an invitation for all the proposals to come. They come into the specific cases of Stortinget dealing with, and that is what is also the intention of the communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e948	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e953	I concluded my post by saying that competence, capacity and communication are essential for good quality in the healthcare system. The word "cut" is not included here. Recently, we have seen more examples of patients, relatives and health care staff who are calling for warning about the capacity of hospitals. My question to the Council of State is this: Does the Minister of Health fear that the many cuts in hospitals can go beyond just quality and patient safety?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e958	The government and the Stortinget have facilitated a growth in hospital patient treatment beyond the demographic growth of the years in which the government has been sitting since 2013. At the same time, there is no concealment of the fact that it is perceived as being demanding in hospitals. Hospitals and health businesses need, inter alia: profit from financing equity related to necessary investments. But we also see that the hospital economy is healthy, in the sense that most of our hospitals and health regions are going on with profits, and that is record investment in both construction and equipment. This is a basis for looking at the contexts relevant to patient safety and quality. I agree with the representative's description that the factors she is raising are important.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e965	It may have facilitated the growth of patient treatment, but has it been followed up with sufficient capacity, so that employees feel that they have done their job? The minister calls this arduous. The fact that hospitals are to finance their own investments puts additional pressure on hospitals. They may even need to cut patient treatment to save on investments. Does the Council recognize the health care workers, the relatives and the patients themselves, who are concerned that the quality of our hospitals is actually going down and not up?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e973	I don't think we have any reason to say that the quality of our hospitals is going down. On the contrary, the studies that we have, which are also referred to in the message, show largely the opposite. We have challenges with variation, but that variation also arises between, for example. hospitals with relatively equal financial conditions. Several patients get help. Hospital waiting has gone down, the queues have gone down. When we compare the Norwegian health service internationally, we have also had a positive development. So I don't want to go into a description that the quality goes down. But I agree that many who work in our hospitals experience a very busy and demanding everyday life. We have had a significant increase in the effectiveness of our hospitals since the hospital reform in 2001, but the improvement in efficiency has mainly improved patient treatment and investment in the sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e980	I want to recapture the thread from the previous line on the relationship between the fullness of hospital services, and it increases the risk of bad events. We've seen from major international investigations that it's a context. If you get a coating percentage of more than 92.5, there's an increased risk of death for hospitalised patients. I feel that this is a debate that will not take place in Norway. We know that Health South-Aust is planning all its new hospital buildings with an average covering of 90 pst. It is far above what is otherwise recommended internationally, and is much higher than in other health services in Norway. My question is: Will the Council of State look at the average coating for which Health South-East is planning, also looking up to what is happening in Eastfold and its experience?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e985	The context is probably a little bit more complicated than what the representative here gives the impression. The international studies will vary with the types of hospital services used. So our hospitals have also changed. New hospitals are being built, for example. mainly with single rooms. This makes it possible to have a higher capacity utilisation. You need, for example: not taking gender into account in the same way. It is not necessary to take into account infection and infection in the same way, hazards occurring at a high level of coating. What I've chosen to demand is that you don't have Corridor Asians. Because I fully agree that in hospitals that have Corridor Asians, risks are increasing both for the patient and for health, the environment and the safety of employees. We see that the demand has given results, and the proportion of Corridor Asians has fallen after that demand was made.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e994	Thank you. I might have a lot of comments on the last answer, but I want to ask about another thing, which I've been busy with when it comes to patient safety work. It concerns the culture of expression in the Norwegian health care system. If you have no worker who dares to report when something is wrong, you will never get this job to work. In many things it has been claimed that it is a culture of fear, among other things. at UNN, but also in other hospitals. It has our reporters in the media, etc. It has also been the screening of the patient safety campaign. My question is: will the Council of State address this in a separate way in the next annual message? What is done about research, reporting and monitoring in the services? Does the Council of State see this as very important in preventing unfortunate events?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e999	The Ministry will now review its position and look at the Committee's comments. As the representative is aware, when we made an assessment based on last year's position, there were some issues that the committee wanted to get further informed, and we followed that up in this year's communication. When it comes to how this works, I have given health regions the task of working more to ensure a culture of transparency. Projects have been launched in cooperation with the trustees about it. It has, among other things, As a result, this year we have an overall study of this in hospitals, which will also be a similar survey anywhere. That means you get a completely different basis for comparing the numbers. We have also introduced a regulation that obliges management to use the results, including: of the type of studies and to initiate the improvement work. In that case, the opportunity to express itself, to give notice – a culture for it – will be part of the study. So it's going to be very exciting to see the results of.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1008	Replicate cord shift complete. The debate on substance is closed. 3 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1026	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five series of replies be given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1035	In this proposal, representatives of the Labour Party have put forward a number of proposals on measures that can help to avoid a mix of roles in the health care system. The Committee stresses that the Norwegian health system has a high level of confidence in the population, but that this trust depends on the fact that all those working in the healthcare system have the patient’s best as their primary objective, and that one has clear rules to avoid instability conflicts and a mix of roles. Then, one in the position of the Riksrevision's control of state companies from 2016 shows that there are significant weaknesses in today's reporting of beekeeping. Registration and reporting have been required since 2006, but this has not been followed up in the services. A reporting requirement was set out in the Annual Messages in the Business Meeting in 2013. It was done in 2013, but not since. A joint committee notes that it is critical that health professionals have not followed it up, and a joint committee writes in a note that the reporting of bees needs to re-enter the annual health care messages. According to the Riksrevision, the scope of beekeeping will increase in the future because regional health professionals are required through the mission documents to increase the use of private services through supply, and because free treatment options were introduced in 2015. In the setting, there is a minority, the Labour Party, the Centre Party and SV, behind proposals to ask the government to provide an overview of the scope of potential role mix, and that in contracts with private individuals it is not possible to allow full paying patients to lead publicly funded patients. However, it is a joint committee that underlines in a note that the government must ensure that health professionals in public hospitals do not have private bee jobs that target the same type of treatment – to the same patients – as the department in which they work, and that it has to be facilitated to exploit the work capacity of the public better. It's positive. Only the Labour Party and SV vote for a similar proposal. The centre party wants an even more stringent tightening, where we say this must apply to the same subject area. The Committee would also stress that beekeeping may have positive and necessary aspects, including: participation in research and teaching. The problem is when a worker works in a competitive business in the private sector. And with that, I'm going to deal with the minority proposals that the Center Party is involved in.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1050	The representative, Kjersti Tope, has drawn up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1055	For the benefit of patients, the Workers' Party has a pragmatic relationship with the use of different actors in our common healthcare, including private. But it is important to be aware that in this interaction there may be confusion about roles and possible conflicts of interest. There may be different variants of possible role opposites we should be aware of. Firstly, private treatment providers can refer patients to the public health service for further treatment and vice versa. There may also be confusion and misunderstandings about roles when some private institutions have a public agreement at the same time as they sell similar services to patients who pay themselves. Although we have good rules in this area, unfortunately, there are examples of the opposite, also communicated through the Riksrevision's control of state companies, to which the Advocate General referred. That is why we have tabled a proposal for a representative containing several elements. One element is the right of patients to understand what alternative public funded schemes exist, if there is waiting time, for example: in a hospital to which reference is closest. It is difficult to live with the situation we have examples of, where there is a long waiting time at the hospital nearby, and the patient then chooses private offers in the neighborhood and pays for it himself, as a result of weak information, while through free hospital choice and the patient rights that you have, you could travel to another place in the country and get it done after a shorter waiting period, without having to pay yourself. I believe that Norwegian health professionals naturally have a high ethical standard. I have no reason to believe anything else. But I would also like to point out that we should have clear rules in this field. It can also protect employees against suspicion of a mix of roles, which is also important from an employer’s perspective. Then I record that especially the government parties believe that most should be like today, even after the performance reform free treatment choice, which provides new opportunities for potential role-playing. Health South-East has paid particular attention to this with a possible mix of roles when free treatment choices are phased in. I just have to ask the government to pay particular attention to this, even though I feel that you almost minimize the problem. With that, I would also like to mention the suggestions in the setting from the Workers' Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1068	The representative of Ingvild Kjerkol has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1073	The public hospitals are and will be the support pillar of the specialist health service, but the Right believes that better cooperation between private and public health services contributes to better use of free capacity, increased freedom of choice and new forms of work and cooperation. The right agrees with the proposers that they should not abuse their position by means of ancillary work. The obligation of loyalty lies in all employment, public as a private entity, unless otherwise agreed. The Health Care Act is also very clear in this context. It also describes health professionals’ obligations to ensure that unnecessary costs and time-use of treatment are not imposed on healthcare. There are already procedures for this in the specialist health service. Employees shall not engage in any work, assignment or ancillary work contrary to the established guidelines. This shall be followed up by health managers. Employees also have an obligation to ensure that the guidelines are followed. The Norwegian health system has a high level of confidence in the population, and this trust depends on everyone working in the healthcare system being there for the patient and having it as their primary objective. It is therefore important to have clear rules in place to avoid conflicts of quality and to avoid a mix of roles. The Minister of Health clearly states in letters to the Committee dated 9 March this year that more use of private individuals will require greater vigilance in the ancillary work of employees and the fundamental considerations involved. Private providers are responsible for the fact that their private offerings are not a public service restriction covered by the contract with regional health establishments. Suppliers shall not, on their own initiative, engage in active and direct marketing of their private offer when in contact with patients referred to by the supplier in accordance with a public contract. The supplier is also responsible for ensuring that offers to private insurance-paying patients do not conflict with contract services. The right considers that private health services are a good complement to the public, and that they fill a need, contribute to greater freedom of choice and capacity. We are reassured by the Council's response to the Committee and look forward to public, non-profit and private health services, which will continue to exist in co-existence in the future for the benefit of our patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1084	SV will stop the privatisation of the health care system. We want a free public offer with public operations and cooperation with private ideal providers. We are not to allow anyone to take profit from money that would have gone to patient treatment. The majority of the people see that government is unable to see. 58 pst. Today, we believe that there is a two-part healthcare system where people who are richer can get better treatment. 70 pst. Of these, differences in treatment according to income levels are increasing in Norway today. It's a serious situation, and I wish the government parties here took the majority of the people more seriously and introduced measures that work. One reason why differences increase under this government is that patients are offered and promised faster treatment if they go to the private sector. We even know that due to their involvement, you can have a doctor who works side by side with private people and makes money there, who offers patients such treatment while they work in public. This may have happened for many years, but then, when we learn about it, we need to introduce measures that stop this privatisation – and not look away. Often it is not even right to receive faster treatment in the private sector. Then SV believes that you should be able to get compensation if you are tricked into making stupid choices on the basis of poor information. It suggests both the Workers' Party and SV here, and I am very disappointed that the government parties do not even want to give the right to patients who choose to use private providers. Regardless of what you think about private providers, it would at least provide a safer and better market where patients have more security. Then it's important to stop mixing roles, like giving hidden ads and moving patients and thus also money out of public hospitals. Contracts must be designed so that they do not give financial incentives for paying patients to get ahead of the queue. In SV we believe that everyone should have equal opportunities for good treatment regardless of the size of the wallet. Then it's moving resources, and therefore doctors, nurses and health professionals from public to private, a danger to our health care system. The majority of the people are rightly concerned about the two-way division of the health system that we have today. When they are so concerned, SV believes that it is our responsibility at Stortinget to take up the struggle against the increasing differences in power and wealth. This is what the Workers' Party and the SV do together in this proposal for a representative. We are pleased that the Labour Party has promoted the proposal, and we are pleased with the proposals that we now agree on. Then we'll have insurance schemes for those who are being fooled into trouble, and we'll make sure that the resources are going to secure the public offer, of which most people have good things, instead of moving resources into the privatisation of the health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1097	Initially, I want to make it clear that the main tasks of the specialist health service are to be solved by the public hospitals. At the same time, better cooperation between private and public health services can contribute to better use of available capacity, increased freedom of choice and new forms of work and cooperation. However, more private use will require increased follow-up of beekeeping and the fundamental considerations involved. I agree with the representative that employees in public hospitals should not abuse their position of enriching themselves at the expense of the public or patient through beekeeping. Any employer, including hospitals, must expect workers to comply with the basic obligation of loyalty in all employment. I refer to Section 19 of the Health Personnel Act on the obligation on my own initiative to inform the employer about beekeeping, engagement, ownership, etc. Paragraph 6 of the Act may also be relevant here, since health professionals under this provision are to ‘provide that health care does not impose unnecessary time losses or expenses on patients, health institutions, social security institutions, or other unnecessary time losses or expenses’. Policies and reporting procedures are in place for specialist health professionals. It appears from this that employees are not required to take employment, commission or beekeeping which are contrary to established guidelines. This is a leadership responsibility to follow up. On the other hand, the employee has a loyalty obligation through the established employment to ensure that the guidelines are followed. The representative refers to the National Audit Office’s investigation into the handling of beekeeping by health businesses. In my reply of 15 November 2017 to the Riksrevision, I point out that the department will follow up on the specific deficiencies and weaknesses pointed out by the study. The study shows that there is a variation in the way health businesses have complied with reporting requirements. I have therefore clarified the importance of health care companies working together if necessary to improve and that they learn from each other. I have also followed up the National Audit Office's investigation in the business meeting with the regional health companies in January of this year. Here I showed that employees and health business managers report too little beekeeping, and that the systems established to report and follow up beekeeping are being used too little. Regional health enterprises were asked to follow up the main findings and recommendations of the National Audit Office. In addition, the Ministry has established a dialogue with the health regions in order to clarify the need for clarification of the Health Personnel Act and related provisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1106	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1111	The national audit of state companies shows significant weaknesses in the current guidelines and the functioning of this system today. It's only one of six that states beekeeping. For example, in Health South-East, it has been commendable to have had a special look at the possibilities for increasing the range of role mix after the introduction of free treatment options. According to the Riksrevision, there are four out of ten senior executives, i.e. the director or the hospital manager, who have mandatory bees, but it's only 22 pst. by those who have reported it. This is happening on the guard of the Council of State. When he says he's going to consider how to clarify the guidelines, I'm asking the Council of State to step up its efforts to bring this to life.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1117	I have explained that in my article. The National Audit Office's report has been followed up, both in specific missions to health regions and where I have asked for feedback from the regions on possible improvements in existing guidelines. I fully agree that the way this has worked in the regions until now, has not been satisfactory, in line with what the Riksaudition has revealed, and I expect a significant improvement in this area now.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1122	In the articles of the Council of State and what he repeats in the answer here as well, it's still pretty unclear. The guidelines need to be improved or clarified. I can try a slightly different question in order to perhaps get an answer: How does the Council of State assess the possibilities for following up this well to the FVV actors who then access our common healthcare service, where patients get their treatment there?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1127	This must be followed up by those who work in the public health service and their managers. They have an obligation to report on beekeeping. Managers also have a responsibility to have that overview, and in this way they will be able to assess it on a case-by-case basis. That's where this fails today. The rules are very clear, and I expect to be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1132	After the Riksrevision's report, this has been a debate in all parts of the health service. Among other things, the hospital director went out to the hospital in Westfold and said he wanted to clean up, for this was the goat and oat sack – it is unfortunate when public ligaments have private bees. But he said it was difficult because the Minister of Health is forwarding the beer shop. I have also seen, for example: in today's Business, that the Minister of Health forwards the need for beekeeping. So my question is, one thing is that this should be reported in a proper way, but did the Council of State think it's okay that the league has beer jobs in the private and in the competing, i.e. in the same field as one has a job in the public sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1137	I believe it is the responsibility of the head of the hospital in Westfold and other managers of health companies to ensure that the guidelines and rules in this area are followed. They do not do that to a sufficient extent today, and I expect that both he and the other leaders will take responsibility for it. It will be in health care for bees. It is not possible to operate our health service today without a beer shop. Most bee jobs are linked to important public tasks, such as education, such as participation in work, for example: in primary health services and in other areas. Then there's also a part that has bee jobs against private businesses. I also think that initially nothing is negative, as long as you're clear on the reporting and the roles. A lot of doctors have work capacity in addition to what they work in public. That they contribute, for example: to reduce the waiting time by working with private operators who have an agreement with the public, I believe that nothing is negative, but positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1144	That was a clear answer, and then I think the hospital director in Vestfold has a point. I want to ask you a specific question. In Sunday's VG, we could read about a new private clinic in Majorstua that has purchased the most advanced robotic surgery for prostate cancer. The clinic is fully private, and the offer is to be governed by public games to work there in the evening. This is the same subject area. It's not about research and other things that are mentioned here. Do you think the Council of State is quite right that a user of public bodies in this way, or does he see that this is not a good development?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1153	First, I expect doctors to report the type of beekeeping to their management, then make an assessment of whether there is a role conflict. If it's not, and they work beyond what they work for the public, and help treat more patients, I think it's not negative. Then I hope that as much as possible of the capacity of the private sector is available to patients in the public health sector who are financed by the public sector, so that there will be an equal offer to everyone, regardless of the thickness of the wallet. That is also the reason why we, among other things, have introduced the reform of free treatment choices.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1160	58 pst. Of the Norwegian people, we think we have a two-part healthcare system. 70 pst. of which, differences seem to increase in this Minister of Health’s watch. The government parties are now notifying that they will vote down proposals from the Workers' Party and SV on compensation rights if you are tricked into buying private services on the wrong basis, and the government parties vote down proposals from the Red-Greens to stop financial incentives that push forward that payment spaces, those who can pay for themselves, go ahead in the queue, in front of others. I wonder if the Council of State will do anything to stop the increasing differences in health that are now taking place on his guard?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1167	I'm doing a lot to reduce the differences in health. The greatest difference in health in Norway today is the life expectancy of people with drug and mental health challenges in relation to the population elsewhere. It's the biggest social inequality in Norway. People with drug and mental health challenges in a combination have an expected life expectancy that is 20 years shorter than the population otherwise. That's why this is a very clear priority from our government, both in mental health and in alcohol. Then it is that we also work to ensure equal access to healthcare and increased freedom of choice for patients regardless of the thickness of the wallet. That is why we, among other things, have introduced free treatment options – so that the capacity of the private sector is made available to all, and not only to those who can afford to pay for it, which would be the consequence of the policies of the SVs and the Workers' Party in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1174	Replicate cord shift complete. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1181	I'll make it very short. It's just about this strange claim that came from the representative Toppe in the case of the clinic Colosseum Mann in the major room. I actually know a little bit about it. There it is that there is an agreement with the OUS that the doctors who work there can take work at the clinic one day a week. It is done in full transparency, and it is certainly reported – I am convinced of that. However, it is actually an offer that is established to attract 400 patients who have to be treated abroad to Norway. And it's robotics it's about, in particular, in terms of technological development. There could not possibly be anything wrong with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1189	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1205	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five series of replies be given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1214	On behalf of Mr Sveinung Stensland, I would like to thank you for your good cooperation on this important proposal. Depending on health and care services does not deprive anyone of the right to exercise freedom of belief and religion. This is going to be life out. An ageing Norwegian population is becoming as diverse as the rest of society. It must also put its mark on our care services. Questions about life and death, the meaning of life and the very existence may become even more important when you are in the final phase of life, or need care because of illness or injury. The proposers point out that for most people here in the country, freedom of religion is a matter of course. However, for people who rely on help from others to practice their faith or outlook on life, this is not always as simple. Freedom of religion applies to all citizens, regardless of the situation of life, function, age and other material circumstances of a person. This implies that the recipient of health and care services who is dependent on assistance to practice his or her beliefs or outlook on life also has a fundamental right to freedom of belief and belief. This is part of caring care and is a natural part of the overall healthcare system. The entire committee supports the fact that the possibility of practicing their religion is important in all phases of life. Everyone has the freedom to profess or adopt a religion or faith of his own choice and to exercise that religion or faith. An overall committee refers to the fact that the exercise of that freedom shall be ensured without discrimination on any basis, such as sex, race, colour, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, relating to a national minority, property, birth or other status. European Convention on Human Rights. In this case, all the parties stand behind this right and give a clear message to all those working in the field of health and care. Everyone shall be given the right to exercise his religion, even when life is at its most difficult. Dealing with users’ beliefs and beliefs, and their need for discussions on existing issues, are part of the requirements of professional health care. The ability of an individual to maintain his/her beliefs and beliefs is part of the assessment of his/her safety, which must be followed up by the supervisory authorities. Good care involves the whole human being – not only food and medicine, but also spiritual food.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1231	I would like to start by thanking the Christian People's Party for a very good and important representative proposal. We in Stortingen are often somewhat suspended in that being old is about good health care. But it's also about living your whole life, even when you're older. For many of us, issues of faith and life are very important, and we know that it is often even more important for those who are older. These are good proposals in the proposal for a representative. Among other things, SV, together with the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, wants to ensure that everyone has someone to talk to about existential issues, and to ensure adequate training for those who are going to work with the elderly, to ensure that they can also respect that right. It doesn't help to have a right if there's no people present that can help you execute that right. Therefore, I am disappointed that the other parties do not agree with SV, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party in this matter. Then it's clear to everyone who follows the policy, that we might have a slightly different position on why this is important. SV has always been against the Church of the State and is very concerned about having a diversity of religions. Religion and outlook on life are important, no matter what the point of view, and we in Norway are lucky enough to have more diversity in recent years. We now know that although more and more young Northmen do not believe in any god, or are humanists, there is a large majority of the elderly who still have their Christian faith. It is important that they are given a good opportunity to maintain their faith, whatever it may be, while, as a community, we must be open to the changes that are taking place, so that it is the older ones who decide for themselves what follow-up and what religious freedom they will have enjoyed. I address all the proposals where SV is co-rapporteur, and would like to thank the Christian People's Party again for what we believe to be a good and important proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1244	The representative Nicholas Wilkinson has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1249	Faith is about caring for the whole human being. Freedom of belief applies to all, regardless of the situation of life, function or age. This applies to everyone, regardless of the belief or outlook of life, even when a person receives health care services and is dependent on assistance to practice his or her beliefs or outlook on life. We have a fundamental right to freedom of belief and belief. The dignity guarantee states that the municipal care services ‘must provide for an elderly care that ensures the dignity of the individual recipient and, as far as possible, meaningful life in accordance with his individual needs’, and that this includes the provision of ‘interviews on existing issues’. When this is explicitly stated, it is a signal that health professionals should work on the basis of an overall human vision. This applies not only to health professionals in the care of the elderly but also to all health and care services. Service recipients must be viewed as whole people. The physical, mental, social and spiritual are interrelated and affect each other. Unfortunately, we receive reports from both recipients and service providers, supervisors and forgetters and leaders of the religious and life-view society that freedom of belief is not properly respected in municipal health and care services. Large differences are reported in practice, from department to department and from municipality to municipality. Often, the spiritual dimension is left to the individual service provider, which in turn leads to very different practices. This is why the Christian People's Party promoted this proposal. The Christian People's Party is pleased that an overall committee seems to agree that the right to religious and life-viewing implies that the State should actively facilitate the exercise of religion and view of life, and that it is important to ensure that all those who receive health and care services are granted their right to practise their faith and outlook on life. At the same time, we must bear in mind that it is only the Centre Party and the SV who join the proposals. This must mean that the other parties believe that today’s practice is good enough. Otherwise, I have to hear other arguments coming out, about why one does not vote for these proposals, when one knows that there are different practices around the municipalities and from service area to service area. With this I address the proposal that the Christian People's Party has with the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1264	The representative of Olaug V. Bollestad has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1269	The right to exercise faith and view of life shall last for life, even when people are dependent on health and care services. In addition, we also know that belief and outlook on life are important to our health, and in the Ten Public Health Councils from People to People, as mentioned in the previous public health report, this was one of the points. Everyday life in Norwegian nursing homes, hospitals and hospitals is characterised by cultural, religious and life-seeking diversity, as elsewhere in the population. Spiritual and existential needs are fundamental to all humans. For some are believers about religion. For others, it's about the vision of life without religion. For most people, it's about what makes life meaningful, both in everyday life and not least when life may be extra vulnerable. Dealing with users’ beliefs and lifestyles and their need for discussions on existing issues are part of the requirements of professional health care. The ability of an individual to perform his/her beliefs and beliefs is part of the assessment of his/her safety. This is therefore part of the State’s supervisory assessment. I am, like the proposers, concerned that employees should be able to meet the needs of users for the exercise of faith and life. Competence and knowledge are important. The government has reinforced the investment in basic, continuing training of care staff by approximately 165 million. kr during the period, to a total allocation of approximately 350 million. kr in 2018. These are funds that can be used by municipalities, for example: development of skills of employees in this field. As the proposers point out, the regulation on the common framework for education and training in the field of health and social sciences states that those who have completed a training in the field of health and social sciences must have knowledge of religion and outlook on life, so that they are equipped to ensure equivalent services for all groups of society. I assume that the guidelines to be provided for education will also satisfy the need to provide candidates with the necessary knowledge of religion, faith and outlook on life. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the Ministry of Culture is now working on a growing message of belief and life-view policy, in which the organisation of religious activities in public institutions, including health and care services, will be a topic. Employees in health care should provide care to the entire human being. Cultural and spiritual needs shall be met in accordance with the wishes, background and belonging of the individual. This is also a theme we will highlight in the new quality reform for the elderly, Life throughout my life, which my colleague will present to the Stortinget in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1284	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1289	We get many stories and stories about people who are not satisfied with their spiritual needs. One of the perhaps most heartbreaking stories I got when I met a mental retarder who said he was dependent on someone at work who thought it was okay to be with him or show him the way there. And that wasn't often, he said to me. What does the Council of State think that persons who depend entirely on the assistance of the staff do not have the opportunity, either in an institution or when one has to be accompanied from an institution to the congregation or assembly of which one wants to be part?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1296	I think that kind of story is definitely not right. One, in my opinion, has a fundamental right as a patient and uses to exercise his religion or view of life, even when one needs assistance. This means that those who are auxiliaries or health professionals must contribute to it, even if they do not necessarily share that view of life or that religion. Much of this is also about facilitating and opening up the way for others to access and contribute to healthcare. It's also about quality. Having an open attitude towards society that different religious communities and life-viewing communities can enter the healthcare system and contribute to this kind of conversation, advice and guidance and offer to patients and users, I believe that is also important in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1304	One says that this is not good enough, but at the same time the Council of State says that one should open up the healthcare service to other actors who can come in and meet that need. Then I want to show that patients say that when they know that e.g. The Salvation Army is visiting their nursing home or in their nursing home, they do not get there, because the knowledge or willingness of the staff to accompany them there or to facilitate their arrival is not there. It depends on who is at work. What will the Council of State do to ensure that staff have knowledge that this is actually an important part of the job they are going to do to take care of the whole human being of institutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1311	I feel that this is more systematic in the specialist health service, because you have your own dedicated staff working on this. It becomes – as in many other areas – immediately more demanding as we approach municipal health and care services, because there is not a national system in the same way. We're totally dependent on working in another way with the municipalities in this area. I believe that much of the thinking behind the reform Life throughout life, which is to be presented, is just about taking care of the whole perspective of the individual human being. If view of life and faith are essential, there will be something that comes up in that context. So I think it's a very important reform that will soon be presented, which can also contribute to better and more systematic work on these issues in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1316	Replicate cord shift complete. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1334	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five series of replies be given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1343	We have just discussed proposals related to drug dependence, and we have received an update of the government’s ongoing work on drug reform — perhaps the most important investigation work in the health sector during this major period. The present proposal for a representative concerns measures to combat solitude. There's hardly a lot of people who don't see the connection between these issues. The majority of drug dependence in Norway does not occur in unparalleled settings; it does not appear in the streets of Oslo or in other major cities in our country. It happens in the homes behind closed doors. It happens in shame and not least in solitude. Having said that, I would first of all like to stress that the problem of solitude in our society extends far beyond those who try to bring it to life by alcohol or drugs. That is why I am pleased that the draft representative is calling for a wide-ranging debate on solitude among others. to extend the perspective of Section 7 of the Public Health Act to include this topic. The legal paragraph states that it is the responsibility of the municipality to take the necessary measures to meet the public health challenges of the municipality, and mentions in particular measures relating to growing-up and living conditions such as housing, education, work and income, physical and social environments, physical activity, nutrition, harm and accidents, tobacco use and alcohol and other drug use. It strikes me that in all these points we could benefit from the measures taken in connection with the issue of solitude. ‘physical and social environments’ and singleness, ‘education’ and solitude, ‘nutrition’ and solitude, ‘tobacco use’ and solitude, ‘physical activity’ and solitude, etc. This is so obviously linked to public health that we hardly need any further documentation to be inspired to do anything about it. In other words, I am pleased that the Workers' Party is bringing this topic on the agenda, I am glad that a joint committee uses this as an opportunity to commend the volunteer's work to combat loneliness, and I am particularly pleased that the Minister of Public Health in his letter to the Committee states that she will investigate an extension of Section 7 so that the issue of solitude is also involved. It seems to me that such an investigation may be necessary before we conclude, and that it is probably not right to limit the ministry's work to focusing on a special paragraph. Let there be no doubt that although this proposal appears not to be adopted, there is an overall committee that supports what I see as the main intention behind the proposal for a representative – to increase our attention to the public's task of combating loneliness.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1358	Is loneliness a political question? In 2015, Councillor Höie was very ready for this. He said it was one of today's growing public health problems, that the suffering of loneliness could be compared to smoking in consequence. We know that around 8 pst. the population has problems of so much solitude that it has consequences for health — health suffers. Clearly, loneliness is a political problem. But what is the responsibility of the policy here? Maybe we can think of that a little bit of wonder and discuss with consent, this representative thinks. We should look at volunteering, we should look at public health work, but not least we need to look at how we organise public services such as homes for the elderly, housing and services, etc., so that the problem of loneliness becomes part of the fundamental responsibility we take when we organize our society. Then I think it is very positive that the rapporteur is so positive to the proposal from the Labour Party, but I think it is a little sad that the majority of the committee does not pull this positiveness all the way down by voting in favour of the proposal to include this in public health work. Because you might have to go from talking about this as a public health problem to actually doing something about it, so that there is a systematic transposition into the community's work on public health, which is just the proposal. So here you're in favour of something that you don't dare to go all the way to the goal, and if you're going to interpret it positively, it might just be a postponement to get it into public health work, but you should have come to that conclusion already today. It's not harder. Loneliness is a political problem and should be systematically incorporated into the work of all municipalities on basic public health. So we're going to hope that this is just a postponement, until this hall comes to that recognition.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1367	Will the representative address the proposal of the Labour Party with others?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1372	Well, thank you.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1377	The representative, Siv Henriette Jacobsen, then drew up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1382	When the Stortinget passed the Law on Public Health in 2012, it was a milestone. Then one said for the first time that responsibility for public health work in Norway is added to the municipalities rather than to the health services in the municipalities. This means that municipalities are obliged by law to use all sectors in public health to promote public health and not just the health sector. It was an important piece of legislation. Local authorities are also responsible for providing an overview of the state of health and for making impact factors concrete. The aim of the laws was to contribute to a social development that promotes public health and cushions social differences. So in this proposal, one suggests adding solitude to Section 7 of Folkehelselova. It is referred to by the case-speaker, who has listed the area of action to be taken by the municipality. It is about growing-up and living conditions, housing, education, work, income, physical and social environment, etc., and in this context it is important to mention solitude. That's what the Center Party is voting for, and I'm glad that the government party announces that they share their intention, and that it might be that way. I think it is important that we are clear about this in the law as well. My concern is that this is not the only thing that works. What's the problem is that we have to look at how the whole population that was introduced on 1 January 2012 actually works out there. The National Audit Office has carried out an evaluation of public health work, and it was actually a slaughter of the efforts of the municipalities. The evaluation showed that most municipalities have not established systematic public health work. It showed that work on public health and public health work was not sufficiently knowledge-based, that public health work was not well anchored in sectors outside health, and that there is a need to strengthen the follow-up to municipal public health work. Here the government has a great job to do. It does not help if we get even something new in Section 7, which the municipality is to comply with, if this does not lead to concrete changes and the legal work is not followed up in the municipalities. We're busy with that. Otherwise, we have a note that we are concerned about youth loneliness, not just the elderly, and that there is also something that needs to be resolved locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1395	Over 80,000 older people are lonely, so I look up for a while back. There are too many, and it shows that you are outside feeling insecurity in everyday life. I record that someone is very busy getting this into the law – and that it is the government that has a responsibility. I believe that we all have a responsibility to work for more public health work on the agenda. It may be good to remind the Central Party that they have something like 90 rapporteurs, and when you slaughter the local authorities' work on public health, you might want to start by going to your own rapporteurs. I want to take a slightly different approach to this, because I definitely believe that this is important. In my home municipality, Bamble, we have something called Fresh Bris. It's about helping people get back to work. So you could say, what does this have to do with older people? Well, I mean, there's a lot of what's philosophy, and what's the challenge -- all of a sudden you're on the outside of the flock. You're not part of the community and you feel like you're on the outside. That's how I think many older people get it when they, for example. loses his companion's life through a long life. Then it's important to think, how are you going to make people stay in the flock? That's what I mean a lot of this is about. I believe that there is a lot of good public health work in many municipalities, so I do not want to join in and slaughter everything and say that it is too bad. Yeah, there's too many places out there, but there's also someone who really puts this on the agenda, takes hold of it and manages to get to the good things that make you feel like you're part of the flock again. I think the important thing is that we act, not just get it into the law, but actually puts public health work even higher. We must be involved and contribute, and that is why I think that there is a proposal for a representative, that is to say, that we are raising the debate, is very positive. I believe that together – the Storting, the Government and, in particular, all the municipalities and politicians around the municipalities – we can participate in making sure that you feel that you are part of the flock, that you are part of the totality, thus reducing solitude. We really have to press that, and I feel that the government does. Now soon live your whole life, as it's going to be exciting to see if also has this perspective with it. I think it does.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1412	It's bad to be all alone, and often it's filled with shame. I was very happy with old Agnes. She took care of Mom when she was little, and followed the family since. We used to play. She was with us sometimes on weekends, and we thought she was living an active and good life next door. When Agnes died a few years ago, we were the only ones at the funeral -- me, my sister, my mom and my stepfather. We didn't know she was all alone. Very many older people are struggling with solitude, and we have to do more. Tours and opportunities for several interlocutors, organized activity where people are invited, we know that is important. That is why SV proposed it in the State budget we discussed in the autumn, but the other parties unfortunately voted against it. In Oslo, SV and former Senior Caregiver’s Office No Marte Thorkildsen has arranged for cooperation projects between the elderly and young people, where one can live together, meet across generations and create activity. In Stavanger, SV has recently received an impression that older people who want to do so will receive a course in social media, so that they can connect with the younger generation and do not fall outside digitally. These are concrete changes in Norway. So when the Progress Party's Board of Hoksrud calls for action, we refer to measures, in addition to the fact that today we are actually voting to do something, instead of voting to reject the whole proposal, without any alternative proposals, as the government parties unfortunately do. SV believes we need to build communities that are rigged for community. It's more than just the care of the elderly. It's about building centers with few cars and universal accessibility. It's about meeting places like good libraries and cafes, and it's about cooperation projects where people meet across generations. But not least, it is important that there are actually enough staff out in the services to facilitate people's encounters. We've just talked about religious freedom, where the Center Party, SV and the Christian People's Party want to secure employees who can help people fulfill these rights. The same thing is to be able to be social. Many older people may have difficulty moving. There is a need to recruit more health professionals, nurses and doctors in the care of the elderly. I would like to thank enough for a good proposal from the Labour Party and recommend the minority proposal, which is also supported by SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1426	This draft representative points out something that we are all concerned about. Loneliness is a major challenge in our society. The government's objective is to prevent solitude. I am familiar with the studies of solitude, which refers to both increased health risks and that the experience of being lonely and alone poses a risk of increased mortality. Loneliness is reported in Norway, particularly among young people and older people. In terms of actions aimed at being alone and lacking social support, I think we can do something. Loneliness can be combated by people's encounters and by people's becoming known. Such meetings may take place in different venues, for example: through participation in working life, education, organisational work, cultural and leisure activities. Several of the representatives who have been on the pulpit have just pointed this out. In order to combat loneliness among older people, we have proposed to continue, for example: grants to Seniordan’s Norway, to the Norwegian Tourist Association, to the Red Cross and other organisations involved in the physical and social activation of older people. Through these measures, we can reach older people who live alone or are lonely. The government has also proposed to continue earmarked grants for the three-year Community and social support campaign in Norway, which is now within its last year. The voluntary.no web portal is an important tool in this campaign. Voluntaryness Norway is working to encourage more people to become volunteers with particular attention to young people, those with a migrant background and the elderly. At the next revision of the Public Health Act, I will consider making demands on municipalities to work systematically with measures to combat solitude. This involves an amendment to Section 7, but the proposal has to be examined in the usual way. I am in favour of such an idea, but I want the proposal to be examined, as it should. Loneliness is a challenge for all of us. Whether we're inside or outside, we all have a responsibility to see the individual, which I've also had in previous debates here in the Chamber. Connecting generations together is an important key to ensuring a good and inclusive life, whether you're young or old. Awareness raising in municipalities in both housing planning and interaction in general is very important. Loneliness can be what triggers severe serious illness, such as depression and suicide. That's why I also want this to be an important area in the next public health message and in other messages where it's absolutely relevant to input this, including Life all my life.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1443	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1448	As the Council of State was in it, solitude is perceived as the most pressing problem among the elderly and young. Since the Council of State is the Minister of Public Health and the Minister of Senior Citizens, it may be expected that the main focus of the Council of State attention will be the elderly. But when young people experience as much solitude as older people, what kind of concrete action does the Council of State see as it can in public health to limit solitude among young people?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1453	After all, we've started playing conferences on the new public health message that's coming. There we see that many of those taking the floor at the recording conference have been pressing for solitude in both the young and the elderly. I think – as I also mentioned – that linking generations is an important piece: being seen, feeling that one is inside and not just outside, as lonely very often experiences it. We must also be aware of the taboos. Talking about it's there. But there's also a lot of people who are lonely even though they're in a social context, so you're lonely inside. There's not so much talk about it, because it's easy for you to just see the individual who feels lonely. Just the psychological challenge of being lonely in a flock, we haven't talked much about it, but it's come out clearly in connection with the recording conferences.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1458	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Recently, there are 101 000 poor children here in Norway, and this is an increasing problem. One consequence of child poverty is an increasing sense of exclusion, exclusion from leisure activities due to costs, etc. Does the Council consider that measures to include children and young people in leisure activities can be concrete measures to reduce solitude and child poverty?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1465	Of course. I just came from an event, the jumping rope competition, which I have been to open, and have jumped rope right outside the house here. It's also one of those arenas. It's not cost-intensive to have a jumping rope, but it connects socially, and everyone can get it to whatever background. This is also an area I'm occupied with. When we debate later, when the public health report comes, I am convinced that this aspect will be an important part of public health communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1470	There's a lot of talk about older people and loneliness, but I want to talk about young people who are lonely. There was recently an investigation showing that 19 pst. Of young school students, there is a great deal of loneliness, and among the elephants in further education almost 30 pst. by the girls and 17 pst. of the good that they were a great pain in the way of solitude. These are pretty high numbers in the even population, and it's taller than I thought it was. First, I wonder what the stanchions mean by this situation. And second, what can one do from the Greatness and Government side to prevent loneliness among young people?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1475	These are numbers that scare most of us. It just means that we have to take this seriously, it's an increasing challenge in terms of solitude for children and young people. I think we adults have to go a little bit in ourselves and be good role models. We all have such hectic days, right? We have children and young people who come home from school, and it may not be adult contact – they come home to an empty house. Parents and other caregivers in the community may not have that focus. One sits alone and may not be involved in activities, which means that many children experience their superiors to a lesser extent than we did before. It is a challenge that we ourselves must take responsibility for being present for our children. Now I'm not talking about it going to happen so violently, but that one actually takes the kids seriously and asks the simple question, how was school today? Not all parents are doing it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1480	As we've discussed before, SV fears that the whole life will be a mind map and a little bit of imaginative. But here we can do something completely concrete. The Elder Minister says that she is positive about changing the law and taking on solitude, but that it needs to be properly investigated. SV, the Workers' Party and the Center Party are just asking the government to come back with a matter. So then the Senior Minister can only ask the Advance Party to vote in favour of our proposal, so the government will have to investigate this as much as they would like before the matter comes back. But if the government parties then choose not to vote for it anyway, I can ask the senior minister a very specific question. Now she says she's positive to this. Does this mean that there is now a proposal from the government to include solitude under Section 7 of the Public Health Act? Or is the minister just positive, but isn't ability to act after what they claim they're for?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1487	Now I think the representative doesn't know me very well. But those who know me know that when I say I'm positive and see that this is important, I stand for it. I'm taking this back to the department and I want to work on this and see how we can manage to lift the case area solitude into where it's natural to include it, also under Section 7.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1492	I am very pleased with that answer, and I would like to thank the Minister for taking this proposal with her. I wish her party on Stortinget could also have been so constructive, so we could have adopted this already today. But then we look forward to getting it to treatment in Stortinget. But then I also want to ask the Minister of Older People if that's something we get with Life all our lives, because when we discuss loneliness, I think it's one of the important reforms we have to work with more. I referred to many of the concrete actions that SV is now implementing in Kommune-Norway to stop loneliness among the elderly. I would like to ask about that, too, with that review, Life all my life, there will come concrete plans for the Storting for increased funding or legislative changes with new rights for the elderly, which will ensure that we can ensure that these things are not just imaginative, but actually implemented for all the elderly in Norway, so that we get less solitude among the elderly in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1500	I got this question from the representative for approx. a week ago, in the same area. I can only answer the same thing: now life comes all your life, it's right around the turn. And once again, all of these good examples are here, among other things. a couple of them that the representative here himself mentions. That's what's going on – if we're going to solve this, we're going to have to think constructively together. And when it comes to whether this comes in Life all his life: there is a concrete suggestion, but the fact that Section 7 is not at present, because that matter comes on the table here in Stortingen in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1505	The cord shift is over. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1512	After promoting this proposal in Stortinget a few weeks ago, I contacted a boy named Albert Astrup Hansen. He is 17 years old and posted on Twitter that he has no friends. There was something that made a strong impression on me, and I had a meeting with Albert with the representative Ingvild Kjerkol here at Stortinget. After this meeting, many others have contacted me and told me how solitude affects them and their lives. Having heard the debate here, I must admit that I am a little tempted to use so-called unparliamentary expressions. We agree on this – is it so difficult just to vote for the proposal, can you not give the little handshake to the people who have admitted that they are lonely, who say they are having trouble? If you are positive that this is included in Section 7 of the Public Health Act, yes, vote in favour – it may not be so difficult.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1517	I have a little comment for the representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, who said I had to raise the centre party rapporteurs better. It may be that I should, but I would recommend to the representative to read the National Audit Office's report on the evaluation of public health work, because there is a good idea of what is actually the structural problem in this work. The majority of municipalities say that they are uncertain about the effective means and measures. This will also be confirmed by the Institute of Public Health. There is too little knowledge of the impact of different measures, but one feels that it is easier to initiate measures aimed at living habits, such as physical activity, than measures aimed at the back, which then lead to social inequality. It is also determined by the National Audit Office that the State has an important responsibility to provide such knowledge of public health and what can be done to improve it. Of course, local authorities also have a responsibility, not least they are responsible for evaluating their own efforts. It is pointed out by the National Audit Office that more research and experience-based knowledge is needed. The municipalities also call for better anchoring of public health work across sectors from state authorities, saying that if the State had better coordination of its work, it would lead to better coordination of local work. And the National Audit Office is quite critical of its actions and recommends that the Ministry should have closer follow-up of the municipalities in public health work, and one should facilitate increased knowledge. So finally, if I take care of the Central Party rapporteurs, perhaps the representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, can take care of the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1526	Loneliness is about much more than age — it concerns all kinds of people of all ages. It says a lot about the number of help phones when people describe what they hear at the other end when they pick up the phone. I've asked why it's been like this. Have we got a colder society? Have we got a society where you've been successful? Has it been so cold that we don't have the ability to see the individual? The loneliness is a big problem, and therefore it's not enough just to talk about meeting places or to jump rope; this sticks incredibly much deeper. We can't adopt a society without solitude, but we can say something about what society we want. What do we want to facilitate, across disciplines? What are we going to value and not value — in school, in kindergarten, in work and in society? How do we fix what's important in school? More than measuring -- are we able to see the kid who might have good measurement results, but is hesitantly lonely? Who will be allowed to participate in society? Who's good enough for work, to get involved with that part of themselves that's healthy? Who allows civil society and the ideal actors to become a greater part of public work? When the Christian People's Party votes against today, it's not because we're opposed to doing something about solitude, but we think it needs a lot more than incorporating something into one paragraph. This is a big field where we politicians have to work across disciplines because we have a society that is getting cold, and we need a much warmer society in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1537	After hearing the representative Moflag, I almost wanted to be a little unparliamentary – but now I am not. But that it's just getting this into the law, and then you've kind of come a long way – I don't think so. I think it's actually about that we have to work on this. That is why I think it is important to see what is stated in the comments from the Committee, which is very clear that it is important to keep working and doing what both the representative Moflag and the representative Wilkinson were concerned about, namely to gain more expertise in how to do this even better in the municipalities. That's why I say, yes, we all have to say that we want to do something about this, but it's not just about getting it into the law, because there's a lot of things in the law that don't necessarily mean it's being followed out there. I want to challenge the Workers' Party to join in and watch the Healthy Bris in my home municipality. There are actually some people who think about just this: how can you avoid getting lonely on the outside and not being part of the community, and how do you work to get it done? I think you can get good ideas. My point is that there's a lot of good things going on in many municipalities, but we can get even better, and we have to challenge. The Labour Party has more than 200 rapporteurs, the Central Party has more than 90, and the Progress Party has 4. I'll take care of them and take a talk with them, because I'm absolutely sure they're concerned with public health work. I know that. Then I think we'll get more, because that's what this is all about. As I started by saying, ca. 80,000 older people are lonely. There's too many, and there's a lot we can do. It's not just about money, and it's not just about the law. It's actually about action, and there we have to keep doing the job.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1546	The President thought it was good that the representatives who have signaled that they wanted to be unparliamentary have managed to control those desires.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1551	It is an English saying called ‘talk ice cheap’ and it fits very well with the representatives of the Progress Party. You talk a lot about not solving all the problems, but you don't come up with any alternative suggestions. In my post, I referred to S.B.I. and what we're actually doing. At Stortinget we propose enhanced tour cooperation and conversation cooperation with Red Cross and the Norwegian Tourist Association. The party of progress voted against. In Oslo, SV takes initiative in housing between young and older people. In Stavanger, SV has been able to provide a course in digital communication, so that older people can talk better with younger people and hang out with them. We're referring to completely concrete changes we're making. But it's actually the law on public health that's leading the way the municipalities are going to work on this. We use laws in Norway to guide our municipalities and guarantee rights for the elderly. And then you come here and you say it doesn't solve everything alone. Now I'm going to try to talk to Tuva Moflag, without even talking to her, but I'm pretty sure the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre are in complete agreement that we want to do a lot more. That is why we have had a long series of representatives of better care for the elderly, many of whom voted down by the Progress Party, with concrete solutions to improve the situation of the elderly in Norway. We fully agree that this alone does not solve everything, but when you vote against the inclusion of loneliness in the law on public health, with the reason that we should also do something more, it must be one of the weakest reasons we have heard. I am very pleased that the Council of State has a completely different approach to the elderly policy in Norway, and instead is willing to be positive and talk up proposals that can improve the situation for the elderly. I believe that once again demonstrates the importance of this proposal for a representative from the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1562	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1567	I also want to say that volunteering is incredibly important in this work. There is a tremendous amount of work being done, and the volunteers in Norway are very good at this with public health work. When I hear the representative Wilkinson, it sounds like he has a lot of proposals, but there is one concrete proposal here, and that is: «The government asks the government to propose that «entity» be included in the Public Health Act § 7.» The difference between me and Wilkinson – and the Progress Party and SV – is that we want action. We don't think it just helps that it's in the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1579	This debate is quite symptomatic of quite a few of the debates we have in this field. When the position and government don't want to go for quite excellent proposals that they really are for, they point to the individual's responsibility. They point to the responsibility of the municipality, and they say that it cannot be about money. But this particular proposal is not about money either. So I hope that my interpretation of the government's position in my first post is on track, and that this is only a postponement until we get a final bill on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1585	I think the representatives are going to think of this as a matter that one should not spend much time on. What's important here is that we all want to do something. I also believe that the opposition representatives know very well that if a law is to be amended, it has to be investigated. One cannot vote above the table to change Section 7 of this law. You have to find out, because it's a bill. Had it been a loose proposal that did not affect any law, it would have been a little different. The position parties and the government say we're positive to look at this, but we have to figure it out. Should it then prove that it is not possible for some reason – that is why we are investigating things – then we have to come back and discuss it. But now I think we are creating a debate that is not really there. We want to make solitude an important piece in most of the major messages where relevant.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1590	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1606	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines of reply be given to the members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1613	It is good to be rapporteur on a matter that is so important for the elderly in Norway to feel good. I would like to thank the Labour Party for a good representative proposal. We are getting older in Norway. It brings with it good opportunities to have a population with life experience and, at the same time, better health than before to contribute to volunteering and to stay longer in the workplace. But there are also some challenges when we live longer than ever before, and our bodies thus incur a series of sufferings at the same time. The Committee considers it important to treat older multi-sick patients well, whether at home, in hospital, in nursing homes or in hospitals. This is a particularly important field, because it is different to diagnose and treat a 50-year-old than an 80-year-old. Many elderly people have complex disease images, and overall geriatric competence is therefore essential for them to get good help. Specialisation in health services is important, but it must not be at the expense of generalists with the ability to see the full picture of the disease and the specific challenges of the elderly. We have challenges in the Norwegian health care system with silo thinking and fragmentation, and then it is important for people with this competence. In the setting up of the National Health and Hospital Plan, the Stortinget agreed that all major emergency hospitals should have geriatric competence. This target has not been reached by the government. The interaction reform means that more and more older people are going to have treatment in the municipality where they live. It is wise, but if it is to work, there must also be the right competence in municipalities to ensure dignity and the treatment required. When more people are treated in the municipalities, there are also several multi-sick older people treated in the municipalities. The need for geriatric competence is also increasing here. There is a greater need for medical supervision in hospitals, but medical coverage is still too low. On this basis, the members of the Committee from the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the SV and the Christian People's Party are united on five important decisions for the elderly today. We propose ensuring that there is sufficient capacity for geriatric specialisation for doctors and nurses all emergency hospitals shall have specialist in geriatrics; all emergency hospitals shall follow the obligation to provide guidance to municipalities and enter into binding cooperation agreements for good services for the elderly; ensuring a good transfer of patient information between hospitals and municipalities to strengthen medical staff and geriatric competence in nursing homes; It is good that the opposition together takes responsibility for the elderly in Norway. On behalf of SV, I would also like to address our proposal to ensure sufficient capacity in relevant vocational education, and the provision of continuing training in geriatrics for health professionals and other groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1646	The representative Nicholas Wilkinson has drawn up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1651	Although we did not get a pass on the previous matter we debated, I have to say that for us in the Workers' Party, it is a delicious feeling to round off today's health debate on the same track as we have been most of the autumn and spring, namely with the hand on the wheel of Norwegian health policy. Today, we will probably ensure an important breakthrough for the elderly and multi-sick patients of the country, in cooperation with the SV, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party. It is well documented in Norwegian and international research that geriatric assessment and treatment lead to lower morbidity and lower mortality, and that people survive longer in their own homes. It is a good policy – good for individuals and socio-economically profitable. But now it's like the government parties want healthy people to live in a nursing home. Enough about it – we debated it last week. But it is not easy to understand why the government parties are voting against this proposal. Again, it refers to the message Life all my life, and I repeat my message from last week's debate: It's built up enormous expectations of this message, and we look forward with excitement to the content when it's presented. The Labour Party does not need to wait to put geriatric competence on the agenda. With today’s decision, the elderly in the country receive a significant lift: We need to ensure sufficient capacity for geriatric specialisation for both doctors and nurses. All emergency hospitals in Norway shall now have broad competence in the treatment of the elderly and all major emergency hospitals shall have specialist in geriatrics. We will have binding cooperation agreements between hospitals and municipalities. Whole and coherent services are the objective. A good transfer of patient information between hospital and local health services shall be ensured in both write-in and out-of-print. Medical staff and geriatric competence in hospitals shall be strengthened to prevent unnecessary hospitalisation. During the examination of the national health and hospital plan, the Health and Care Committee agreed that all major emergency hospitals should have geriatric competence to meet the challenges of health care for the elderly. Nevertheless, there are still large hospitals that do not have specialist jobs in geriatrics. In 20 years there will be twice as many older people in Norway. Although most people are healthy and self-reliant, the need for health care increases when you get older, and especially when you get over 80 years of age. In order to provide good services in the future, we need to rig our services now. That is why I am pleased that the Workers' Party together with the Christian People's Party, SV and the Center Party today ensures a majority for a real geriatric summit in Norwegian health care. And with that, I take up the Labour Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1680	The representative of Tuva Moflag has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1685	The representative Moflag started talking about healthy people who were going to a nursing home. I want to say that love is going to live, even if you get old and you need care. It is important to ensure that older multi-sick patients who need treatment actually get it. It is therefore very important to ensure adequate geriatric competence in both specialist and community health services. Norway is a good country to live in. People live a long time, and the quality of life is high. Being old today is not the same as 20-30 years ago. Not at all have we had as many 100-year-olds as we have now, but with age it also follows disease. Older people today often have more illnesses, each requiring expertise. For this reason, it is important that older people, when they come into contact with municipal health and care services and/or in hospitals, are met by people with geriatric competence. In the national health and hospital plan, it has also been suggested that all major emergency hospitals should have geriatric competence, which I also believe has been followed up against health businesses. Competence in geriatry is also very important to ensure a growing number of elderly patients good treatment and follow-up in healthcare. To meet this in the future, several occupational groups will be very important. But to what is included in this proposal for a representative, I would like to point out in particular that doctors and nurses will be very important. As mentioned at the outset, ensuring good geriatric competence both in municipalities and in specialist health services will be important in meeting the challenges posed by an increasing ageing population. It is therefore important to bear in mind that health businesses have been asked to assess their personnel and competence needs and to plan to meet them. This applies in different services and disciplines. There is a requirement for regional health companies to work systematically in recruiting, maintaining and developing skills. This was last recorded in the Enterprise Meeting in January 2018. Training of medical specialists in geriatrics takes place under the direction of health enterprises, in line with other specialist training courses, while training of nurses in geriatrics takes place in the education sector. I would also like to point out that the Right, Left and Advance Party are very concerned to ensure that we strengthen our competence in this area, and would point out that in the period 2015-2017 136 geriatric nurses were trained, to a total of 1,981. According to the Medical Association, the number of geriatric medical specialists has also increased by nearly 50 pst. in the last 10 years. Today there are 164 specialists, compared with 112 in 2008. This clearly shows that geriatri is an area that we have prioritised. As is well known, the government has put forward an older strategy and will soon present a quality reform for the elderly. Geriatry and geriatric competence are in no way forgotten and will be followed up by the Council of State and the three governmental parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1700	I would like to thank the Labour Party for making an important proposal. In a sense, this is a rematch on national health and hospital plans, where we made a decision that has not had the effect that many expected. It was decided that one should have geriatric competence in all major emergency hospitals. We did not see that that decision had any consequences in the services. The centre party does not wish to go into the proposal to develop its own strategy for community services for the elderly, which also includes the services of specialist services. It is not because we do not share the intention behind the proposal, but it is the use of the overarching strategy we believe is wrong. Because this is the whole health service. If we can't get good interaction between the hospitals and the community health services without creating another strategy, it's going to be wrong. I'm glad that a few more people here today are strengthening the means of better interaction that already exist in the system, but that are too little used for elderly patients who have generally weak health and many illnesses. I then think of things like creating a separate coordinator’s position, having an individual plan, and other measures that are legally anchored – measures that can improve interaction. It is precisely part of the proposals in the vote that a government is asking for all hospitals to comply with the counselling obligation to the municipalities and to enter into binding cooperation agreements with the municipalities on health services for the group of elderly patients, increase the use of the coordinator and individual level, and a request from the government to provide measures to ensure a good transfer of patient information between the hospitals and the local health services in all entries and printouts of elderly patients in hospitals. This is a huge problem. The last proposal is to strengthen medical staff and geriatric competence in hospitals in order to prevent unnecessary hospitalisation and ensure more holistic services for elderly patients with complex disorders. This is a grep that can be used by services today, but a much tougher follow-up is needed by the government. It's very important to focus on this. It is also linked to the fact that there is much shorter hospital time now than a few years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1711	We know that there are more elderly people, and many of the elderly have more illnesses and a more complicated picture of the disease than before. One has advanced medicine, and one has advanced treatment both in the specialist health service and in the municipality of Norway. This turns out that we get a lot of people with different levels of function and different needs, not least interdisciplinary needs. In the specialist health service, we have often met with one doctor per illness, almost – the heart doctor, the moody, etc. – but once we get into the municipality, it is one doctor who will take care of the entire human being. Therefore, geriatric competence in specialist health services is also important in order to ensure coherence between the different diseases. So in the community health service, we have to deal with all these diseases at once. For the Christian People's Party and for me, it's a paradox that when we get to the municipality, where we have a lot of advanced sick people, we have a smaller number of specialists and a smaller number of nurses than in hospitals. Many patients in Norwegian nursing homes have to share one doctor, often without geriatric competence. An overall committee points out that geriatric competence both for doctors and nurses will be important in the future precisely because this patient group is complex. In addition, other professional groups need to have geriatric skills, because we believe that there are more than nurses and doctors who will have to work in this service – the need will be great, so this competence is important. The Christian People's Party is also concerned that, in the future, we need to look more and more at a recruitment standard for nurses according to the weight of care in the municipalities. It's a paradox that in intensive wards we have this recruitment norm, but in the case of seriously ill people out in the municipalities, we're not there. We're lucky if we have enough nursing skills at all for seriously ill, especially multi-sick, patients. That is why the Christian People's Party believes that we should also look forward to a recruitment standard in Norwegian nursing homes – with demands for geriatric competence. And we need to make sure that we train enough people with the right skills to meet the needs of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1722	The government will ensure that older people are assured that they will receive proper and good health care assistance. I am pleased that the proposers are raising the challenges of ensuring good treatment for our elderly. We have an increasing number of older people with more diagnosis and need for long-term follow-up. Ensuring these patients with good overall services requires that services cooperate well across levels and not least between themselves. This cooperation must also be reflected in national plans. Services depend on a wide range of occupations, both those with high and specialised competence, and those that ensure their breadth. This requires, inter alia: a sufficient number of competent doctors, nurses and others with geriatric competence, and it requires the specialist health service to have competence in geriatrics. Let me be specific to the three proposals put forward by the representatives: Firstly, the government is going to present its own quality reform for the elderly, Life for the rest of your life, in the spring of 2018. The reform shall contribute to the self-employment of older masters and to the provision of good help when they need it. The communication also includes specialist health services for the elderly, precisely because we need to ensure good, holistic services. Secondly, the planning of staff and competence needs in the services for the years to come is essential for ensuring good, comprehensive services for our elderly. Health enterprises play a very important role in this work, and the theme is on the agenda of the governance dialogue with regional health enterprises and the ministry. Thirdly, let me assure the Storting that large emergency hospitals should have geriatric competence. Geriatric competence is very important in the future hospital. This competence is about more disciplines than doctors, and multidisciplinary cooperation is also very important to provide patients with a good range of services. Employees are the main resource in the health care services of older people with multiple diagnosis and need for long-term follow-up. That's why it's important that there's enough of them, and not least that they have the skills they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1739	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1745	Geriatric competence becomes important in our hospitals in the time to come. The national health and hospital plan was clear that this was an area that needed to be strengthened. She talked a lot about the interaction between the hospitals and the municipalities that you have to succeed with in the years that are coming. The objective of the Interaction Reform is, of course, that the good patient courses must be in place, especially for this group of multi-sick elderly people. My question to the Council of State is: What new approach does the Council of State see as necessary in order to achieve the objective of the Cooperation Reform, and how will it further develop the existing instruments to enable municipalities and hospitals to cooperate better on these patients?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1752	Some of this I work with Minister of Health and Health Bent Höie about, and something lies with me. But what is important in this area, too, is that we have an interaction, in the same way that we want a better interaction between municipalities and health businesses. I see, for example: Lifelong learning, from different municipalities, has been recorded in the work of the Life Reform, with the creation of monitoring teams and follow-up teams. Monitoring teams can address hospitals and identify individual needs. Follow-up teams will follow up on the patient when he gets to the municipality. We see – and we also have to be aware of this when it comes to debates and proposals that come – that linking loops, as I say, and being able to interact across, is actually the key to delivering what we want, when it comes to putting the patient in the centre of an overall picture.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1759	I am a little surprised when the answer is that there has to be a better interaction between the Minister of Health and the Minister of the Elderly. There's a division that the government has provided. I think it is very important for the government to be able to come up with renewed ownership of the cooperation reform, new tools and new instruments, because the target picture has not changed since the reform was adopted. The only thing that's changed is that it's more urgent to succeed, as a result of the demographic development we have. So I allow myself to repeat the question: What action does the Council of State see separately can improve the interaction between hospitals and municipalities and ensure the continuous treatment processes for our ageing population?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1766	I did not say that we had to improve the interaction between the two state councils, we cooperate well, but I said that we need to improve the interaction between the municipalities and the hospitals, because there we see that patients per day do not always get good enough follow-up. That is what we are putting on the agenda of the reform Life throughout life, which is coming soon. I see that in several areas we can point out – not least to health businesses – that there are decisions, laws and regulations to be followed. To point this out and say that you are going to deliver here is absolutely something that both the Minister of Health and Health and I are doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1771	There is a discussion about hospital lay time, that one downs the number in daily places, and that a plan to do so also in new hospitals. This proposal is about the good treatment of elderly multi-sick patients, and there's one thing we know, it's that these end up in hospitals, not just once, but many times. We know that short bedtime is a problem for this patient group. There will be cleanups, a printout to a community health service that is not good enough, and there is a failure in the interaction, as the previous replicator was in. I would like to ask the following questions: When we have now received a Minister of Older People, does the Minister of Older People think that shorter lay time for elderly patients is a right development? Is it a right development to build up the daily capacity of Norwegian hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1778	I think the most important thing is that we see the individual elderly and what needs they have. If the individual patient needs to be one, two or three days longer, it is important to focus on it. But it also has something to do with the receiver in the municipalities. The representative of Kjerkol was himself, in his post, in having competence in the municipalities to care for the individual elderly. It is precisely the interaction between health companies, i.e. the hospitals and the municipalities, that is important for seeing the patient. If the receiving device is good enough to receive the elderly person, based on the level of the elderly patient at that point in time, it could be a good thing, but again: There should be geriatric competence, you should be able to use the nurses where it is right to apply the skills. This interaction between the two devices must be seen in a context.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1783	I am very pleased that the Council of State says that she wants better interaction between hospitals and municipalities. We have a concrete proposal on this, which the government parties are voting against. That's a little bit of a search. But I am very pleased that the Council of State is clear that large hospitals should have geriatric competence, as the opposition again suggests, but the position will not support. I would nevertheless like to ask, in concrete terms: if the government, which has not yet managed to implement this proposal, intends to implement it – when will it be implemented? When is geriatric competence in place in all emergency hospitals in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1796	There is a competence plan to ensure this. This is nothing new. We're supposed to have geriatric competence in hospitals. Rather, we have to be clear in the follow-up and point out that we want to get this into even more. We have to come up with some kind of index finger and say, you know what? We expect you to deliver on this. It's as simple as that. One does not necessarily have to vote in favour of a new proposal, because this is already the case. We just have to be a little bit neater to say that this is what we expect health companies to deliver on.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1801	“From a index finger” is very well said, because that’s what we in the opposition are doing now: we expected the government to do this. This has not been done by the government. The council did not answer my question either. For SV, it is important that there is geriatric competence in place in all hospitals. We get an older population. Our elderly people deserve care for the elderly and treatment of their world-class illnesses. That is why we are once again proposing what we have already decided, that there should be geriatric competence in all hospitals. The Council of State said in its statement that she supports what SV wants, that there should be geriatric competence in all hospitals. Then, one more time, I ask the same question: What will the Council of State answer to all the elderly who are waiting? When is geriatric competence in place in all emergency hospitals? I can understand that there may be one or two missing, and that there will be minor errors, but when is the government's plan ready, so that there is geriatric competence in place at all emergency hospitals in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1810	This is working on, and, as I also pointed out, this is an area that we want to fall into place, and we've been very clear about that. But it has to build skills, continue training, plan of education, etc. to get enough people with this kind of competence in. That's the goal, and that's what the government is working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1816	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1823	It is, in particular, to be able to follow up on debates in series and rows. We just had a debate in the previous case where the Progress Party said they were against the opposition proposal, including SV, to stop loneliness, because they said there was a need for more action. Here again comes the opposition with a number of proposals for important measures, a series of measures to help the elderly get better treatment in hospitals, and again the Progress Party is voting against the rights of the elderly and against important competences for good health care. It's kind of special when you see the whole thing. But what I want to talk about is a proposal SV is currently all alone about. For geriatric competence is needed, but we forget too often at Stortinget, we believe in SV that health is more than doctors and nurses. Relevant vocational school education and provision of continuing education in geriatrics for health professionals, porters, ergot therapists and physiotherapists are important. There are very specific challenges in these areas, and among the main employees in order to ensure good care for the elderly are actually health professionals. The projections from the Health Directorate show that there are precisely health professionals who will be most in need. Then I have to say I am quite surprised that all the other parties will not be on a proposal to ensure good enough competence in these professional groups as well. Health for the elderly is about more than doctors and nurses, it is also about health professionals and other groups. If we are to overcome our problems and ensure geriatric competence, we must ensure good competence in all areas. One of the last things that is important is that we also have to make sure that employees are at work and get that competence used for the benefit of the elderly, and then we have to ensure full time in the care of the elderly, so that all these competent people get to work whole, full and regular jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1832	I fully agree with the previous speaker that it is important to ensure the geriatric competence of all those working in hospitals, and not just laymen and nurses. Now there are multiple numbers for a proposal that asks the government to increase geriatric competence of doctors and nurses. So to the proposal from SV, who also does not vote in favour of the Senterpartiet. Just to explain it: we are in favour of geriatric competence, the possibility of continuing training, etc. health professionals, which is an incredibly important group in hospitals, but it also includes doors, and I think that we should be a little reasonable. We're not going to promise things here that we don't know are going to become a reality out there. I'm not saying that a porter doesn't need further training and getting geriatric competence and understanding, but I also know that that's not what's going to be a priority. That is the main reason, at least for the Central Party, that we are not voting in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1839	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1855	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1864	The Committee was instructed to examine the proposal for a representative from Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen, Per Olaf Lundtägen and Siv Mossleth to explore the socio-economic benefits and costs of rehabilitating the world heritage object Tinnosbanen either to a clean museum railway or to a railway section which can also transport goods and timber. Tinnosbanen is part of Norwegian industrial history in the Rjukan–Notodden World Heritage Site, which was registered on UNESCO’s World Heritage List in 2015. The World Heritage Status is also the reason why it is the responsibility of the Family and Culture Committee to deal with this matter. There have been few conflicting opinions in the Tinnosban Status Committee. When the application to become a World Heritage Site was adopted, Tinnosbanen was also mentioned, expressing the intention to upgrade the route to ‘driving condition’. The Committee interprets Norway’s application as an obligation concerning Tinnosbanen, which is the first electrified track, an important part of Norwegian industrial heritage. The right and the committee believe that the best way to preserve cultural heritage is to use and maintain the resulting use. It is the Ministry of Transport that is responsible for all train lines and the route is also mentioned in Bane NOR’s proposal for a long-term plan 2018-2029. In parallel with the examination of this case, the route was also included in the Railway Action Plan for the railway sector during the same time period. We see that there is a great deal of willingness on the part of the government to meet the commitments outlined in the application for world heritage status, and the Committee therefore welcomes the fact that the government is investigating the socio-economic benefits and costs of rehabilitating the world heritage object Tinnosbanen either to a clean museum railway or to a railway line that can transport goods and timber.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1877	There are a lot of people – volunteers, politicians, in municipalities, in travel life and experts with a bearing on cultural memories – who are eager to get jobs to repair this three-mile-long Tinnos Railway. Today, I certainly believe that in this Chamber, with a unanimous decision on an investigation of two types of track, we are helping both them and everyone else who is concerned about managing and disseminating Norway's world heritage in the best possible way. Since Norway was granted new world heritage status in 2015, Rjukan–Notodden industrial heritage, it has been aware that Tinnosbanen must be restored. But there have been many questions and discussions about how, for here different types of track have been up for discussion, and many different cost sums have been flagged. These discussions have been little based on facts. There has been a lot of vision and lots of hope for what only a museum track or also a commercial path for goods and timber can lead to for travel, local development, forest and timber industry, etc. But today, an overall increase is now helping us finally to get the facts on the table, and that by figuring out more than just the costs, including the socio-economic gains, with the two most central types of rail. When that investigation is ready, eventually all the forces that work for refurbishment can, hopefully, start working in the same direction, towards common goals. So the goal is to speed up the distribution. That's one of the main reasons why we got UNESCO's World Heritage status, that is, that we have something in Upper Telemark that is actually inalienable to humanity, that is, the crazy infrastructure that was recently traveled on the Notodden and Rjukan some 110 years ago. So next to developing fertilizers, taming the foot force and traveling two cities, Sam Eyde and Hydro built two railway lines, including railway ferries, between the two Hydro cities – in record time. Everything is preserved and can be used for travel and communication from, except for the distance between the Notodden and the railway berth on Tinnoset. The fact that that stretch is not repaired, but is broken, re-grown, decayed and subjected to many copper thieves all the time makes it impossible to tell the industrial fortune by experiencing it, for the natural journey you can take between the world heritage cities of Rjukan and Notodden is amputated and made impossible by the fact that the Tinnos Railway is not in operation. In addition, it hinders the travel life of the region, it prevents the possibility of a distressed timber terminal in the region, it prevents the transport of other goods in the region, and, not least, it impairs the world heritage status and, in the worst case, it can help UNESCO to react very negatively if the promise of their application for world heritage status is not met.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1888	It is very gratifying to stand here today with a co-ordinated increase asking the government to assess the socio-economic gains and costs of rehabilitating the Tinnos Railway. Norway has a proud industrial history that we are obliged to preserve and show. The tinnos web, which transported fertilizer for Hydro, is an important part of that industrial history. When Rjukan-Notodden industrial heritage was inscribed in the UNESCO World Heritage List in 2015, it meant that all the objects covered by the status are to be designated as cultural heritage of irreplaceable value to mankind. It is a serious and important commitment. We have to take care of our history both because it is valuable in itself, and because we depend on knowing the past to understand the present. One of the most important objects is the Tinnos Railway, but that route has not been repaired. In other words, this cultural memory is not available to people, and it is a very bad thing. And not least, it threatens the world heritage status of the entire Rjukan–Nodden industrial heritage when we do not fulfil our obligations to manage all the world heritage objects in a good way. That's why it's so important to fix the path. The Storting is now asking the government to repair the Tinnos Railway as either a museum track or for freight. I would like to stress on behalf of SV that we believe that a freightway is ideal, since among other things. for the transport of timber for the forestry industry. The forest and wood processing industries are one of the important industries from which we can live in the future – and for future value creation and jobs. We have a proud story in this country to build jobs based on the timber, and that story we can take with us into the future as well. By modern wood processing, we can replace oil-based products and create new green jobs, but if that is to happen, we have to process more of the timber here in the country instead of sending it out, as a commodity exporter. If that's going to happen, we also need good transportation solutions for transporting the timber. The tinplate may be part of that solution – it should be part of that solution. For example, a new timber terminal in connection with the Tinnos Railway could be very interesting. I will end by saying that here goes the past and the future hand in hand. We have to take care of our industrial history. It's a serious obligation to future generations. And not least, our industrial history can play an important role in our industrial future, if we dare to bet. That's what SV wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1901	In a world that goes faster and faster, where you're more connected than ever, and where you have free flow of a lot of information, it's more important than ever to take care of your history. The industrialisation of Norway was the germ of modern society, perhaps a kind of comparable time to the one we live in right now, where new technology evolves rapidly and affects all parts of our lives. It made a lot easier, but it also posed challenges, and it led not least to irreversible change. The Tinnos Railway was Norway's first electrified route. It happened already in 1911. And it's tempting to draw the line to today's electric transport – now cars – and railway development. Many good ideas are old, and it's important to remember where we came from and where we started. The left, with the now senior State Council Ola Elvestuen, has had a systematic focus on cultural memory protection in recent years. We have used our negotiating position to increase the appropriations for, among other things. The Cultural Memory Fund, Technical and Industrial Cultural Memory, Museums and Cultural Memory Actions. I'm glad that a joint committee now wants to find out how best to launch the Tinnos Railway, and that the Council of State is involved. One of Storting's most intimate cultural memory champions has now been given the primary responsibility for them. That's a good promise. The Tinnos Railway has received world heritage status, but is not yet in world heritage. Rehabilitation is not only important for maintaining status, but also for Telemark and Norway’s history story. A living Tinnos Railway, whether in museum or transport, will make an important epoch visible in our near past and not least its relevance today. It can contribute to both tourism and business in the region and connect the world heritage area of Rjukan-Notodden. You can say a lot about a country in the way it preserves its cultural heritage. Learning from the past is an important democratic principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1914	The proposal to explore different options for rehabilitating and using the Tinnos Railway is easy to welcome. The tinnos web is an important part of the industrial revolution that took place in this part of Telemark early in the last century. When Rjukan-Notodden acquired world heritage during the meeting of the World Heritage Committee in Bonn on 5 July 2015, Tinnosbanen was one of the main sites of the nomination document leading to the world heritage status. So it's not any route we're talking about, but it's a route that is a very central part of the transport system that enabled the Norsk Hydro industrial venture, a system that includes the Rjukan–Mæl, the Ammonia and Storegut rail ferries across Lake Tinnoset–Notodden, a system that, together with the industrial facilities on Rjukan and Notodden, has been considered to have universal value, relevant to all of humanity. The objective of putting the Tinnos Railway in a driving position for visitors and tourists was therefore an important part of the nomination document promoted by Norway for treatment in the World Heritage Committee. This obliges Norway as a State Party to the World Heritage Convention. Although the nomination document mentions the transport of visitors and tourists, this cannot be understood as excluding rehabilitating and facilitating other types of use. I therefore see no concern that an investigation is being carried out into the socio-economic benefits and costs of restoring the Tinnos Railway either to a clean museum railway or to a route that can also transport timber. The track was built as part of an industrial infrastructure in its time, and continued use of the track in the context of economic activity implies continuity in such a perspective. In any case, a basic premise for the future use of the Tinnos Railway must be that this occurs within the framework of the world heritage status. Therefore, in an analysis of different options for future use of Tinnosbanen, possible impacts on world heritage values need to be elucidated and included in the assessment basis for future use. It is for the transport sector to have such an investigation carried out, and I look forward to good cooperation on the investigation and the organisation of future use of the Tinnos Railway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1925	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1930	It's very stubborn to experience a committee that's so on-the-spot on this issue, and also a minister that is. I know that a lot of people are hoping and thinking that this investigation should be a right step towards realising the refurbishment. I have a question for the minister, because now we get some numbers on the table, and the estimates vary. It could cost us everything between 50 million. SEK and 150 million. NOK – a little depending on what we go for. Is the Council ready to fight to get that money on the table?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1937	I don't have any other numbers than those that are referred to in the setting from the committee, which indicates that a museum track will cost 63 million. SEK and 150 million. kr for an upgrade to the freight transport system, after information has been given to the Municipality of Telemark by Bane NOR. What I can say is that we spend a lot of money on the world heritage area of Rjukan–Notodden today. I believe that Rjukan–Notodden is now beginning to notice the advantage of having world heritage status. Only this year, almost 35 million will be used. kr in this area – 20,7 mill. kr on the world heritage as such, close to 10 million. kr on cultural memories of technical value and industrial value and ship protection products of 3,8 million. kr to Ammonia and Storegut, who also goes in the area. So it's a significant bet already.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1944	Thanks for the answer. Yes, it is absolutely good sums that are granted, and yes, you notice in the region that you have received world heritage status. I'm a little busy with what we're getting on the table now in terms of socio-economic gains, among other things. for a part of the economy, whether tourism or the provision of timber transport services, which can help both the forestry and the wood industry. That is not all of what is the Minister's table, but I wonder how busy the Minister is that the potential that lies there should also be realized.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1952	What is my commitment is what we put into the very application for world heritage status – that the Tinnos Railway should return in a driving order. There is also a desire in the Bane NOR action plan to achieve a running order. I think what we have to do now is get this investigation. Nothing is better than whether the investigation shows that timber transport is also profitable. If it is profitable, I believe it will also be easier – even if the size of the funds that need to be brought in is increased – to justify why we should do it. I think we have to do this investigation now, and then we have to make some decisions then. But the commitment, once we've got world heritage status, there's no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1957	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1975	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1984	Thank you to the Committee for good cooperation on this matter. I take up the Labour Party's proposal in the matter, just as well as last time. So I want to thank SV, who has made suggestions on this, and who has addressed the matter, so that we get a political round about a very important point. Trust in central government is essential for a well-functioning democracy, and in the democratic development of our country, we have experience that trust in the state and administration is essential for good welfare and good services for people. And I find it regrettable – and I deeply disagree with – the opposition policy, yes, really, the basic policy that the Progress Party has pursued since it was established, namely that the state is the enemy of every man. It started with taxes and taxes. The state was the great, ugly wolf – he was hungry, as in the fairy tale of poor grandmother – and the employees continued to be the enemy of every man. They were insensitive and stiff-legged, they did not have the ability to see the needs of individuals and to care for them in a good enough way – and then there were too many of them, must know. The left impression, which they tried to create, was that the state was our enemy, and that the Progress Party was on the side of the individual. Well, now the Progress Party is in government and is responsible for the state, for everything that happens, and now it's not the state that's the enemy, now it's the elite, and then it's the anti-tax cut. An exercise a circus artist worthy of riding these two horses. But there are two of them to perform the piece of art, namely the Progress Party in government and the Advance Party in Stortinget. And while the bureaucracy and the tax-press are growing. This was in a way a long rewrite, but it was to tell you that the Workers' Party is concerned with how the state manages the community's funds in the most fair way possible – in position and in opposition. Trust in society is particularly important in the areas of legal protection, i.e. the legal security of people, including in areas where people with special needs are to be cared for, i.e. people in a very vulnerable situation. The Labour Party strongly disagrees with the view that the market can address the needs of those who depend on the intervention of the State of law, whether it is human, legal or serious care that some people need. That is why we have put forward a proposal to phase out commercial actors in the protection of state children, and that is because we believe that what this government has let happen is a poor and unfair management of the Community's resources. We do not, however, believe that it is necessary to carry out such a comprehensive investigation as the SV has mentioned. We want to have a survey of the situation and the implementation of measures, and that's because we want things to happen quickly, and we also want to strengthen the knowledge of stability and instability. Our political direction lies in a separate proposal that we are going to consider later in the Storting and which is now in the committee, namely the phasing out of commercial operators. But it's exciting to see the arguments that are used, for example. in this case. First, we have the Yelaua declaration, where the government parties say that the market and the market forces are as valued as public services. That's a point that's probably worth noting. This we believe is going in the wrong direction. In addition, we have the letter of reply to the Council of State. Now I don't remember the quote, because I don't have that sheet with me, but it at least signals that it doesn't matter how to run child protection services for the most vulnerable children we have in Norway. It doesn't matter if commercial players actually collect billions of dollars of the community's money book – to go to those who serve these services. It is a policy that is unworthy. It is unworthy on behalf of the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e1999	The representative, Kari Henriksen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2004	I guess I saw this as an ideological settlement on the part of the Workers' Party with what they call the right hand side, but also a change of pace from the Workers' Party. What we're really going to talk about in this case here are double roles in child protection, and that's something we shouldn't have. But I also feel that Henriksen in his post turned the Workers' Party to the left, and they have also announced that they will do so, so that is no surprise. My concern here today is that child protection should safeguard the most vulnerable children and the most vulnerable families in society. What we are concerned about is that children should be protected against care failure and abuse, and that the failing children should be guaranteed a quality offering, care and protection. It is important that the care and services of child protection are organised in such a way that they are provided to caregivers early when necessary. There shall be a coherent service, follow-up and assistance. It turns out there aren't many places today, and there's also public failure. But the attack from the Workers' Party is directed at those who run privately. For several years, municipal and state child protection has used private actors and NPISHs to achieve the most vulnerable children in society. The proposers in this Document 8 ask questions about double roles and address the issue with double roles. It's an important issue. The concern is that public child protection should have a dual role to play, which could affect decisions and weaken confidence in child protection. That's what this case is about. The background is the issues that VG mentioned in January, about double roles. It's unacceptable, as I said, to have double roles, and it's important to do as the ministry and the council do here, just follow up how this is handled. For double roles, trust in child protection can be impaired, whether it is commercial, private, non-profit or municipal. Efforts to prevent beekeeping-related instability have been followed up. The Directorate has now had a review of employees in the State Child Protection Service, and there have not been any specific cases where child protection staff have been involved in the handling of cases at the same time as they have been inhabile because of beekeeping. The Directorate has also amended the model of an interview for ethical guidelines, which are followed up, and the Directorate also disseminates knowledge about it in its internal management school. Agreements for which all new employees now have to disclose beekeeping are up to date. In addition, internal routine checks are stepped up, and guidance has been established. In other words, the council has taken action, has taken this up with both the statesmen and with the KS, and has, in a letter, underlined to the municipalities that they should be very aware of the issues. I am pleased that the department takes this matter seriously. It is true that when you have an agreement with individuals who do not comply with the regulations or do something about the economy or something ethical, you can actually cancel the agreements with the private ones. You can't do that with the public, because they're not being said that way. Here you have a completely different code to make sure that if they don't follow what you're supposed to do, you can phase out those who provide the service. We believe that setting down a public sample to examine the double roles is unnecessary as the Council of State has taken as much roof as she has already done.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2021	I have to say I'm a little surprised. It's the first time I've heard such an extreme political statement from a case rapporteur. But once and for all, it's the first one. I would, however, commend the chairman of the committee for a very good report. I don't have to repeat everything she said on the platform, but it might be a bit tempting to characterize the proposal as a little bit populistic. But I'm 100 pst. to ensure that this is a well-informed proposal. However, there are actually no double roles in public child protection. The proposal's intention to stop individuals employed by the public, from ordering services from their own private businesses, is already affected by the existing legislation. In its letter to the Committee, the Council of State has made it clear which rules apply and that Bufdir has supplemented them with its own internal guidelines. There shall be no doubt that child protection will take its decisions in the light of pediatric assessments. If any child protection employees should have private financial interests, there are also clear rules for them not to be able to order services from their own businesses. As I said before, I'm 100 pst. ensuring that this proposal is well-intentioned, that there are no double roles. I believe that we are well insured against this, precisely because we already have rules against such double roles. There is also work on identifying economic interests, and I think that all the representatives are really looking forward to getting more insight into it, because it can give us new and important knowledge about things that will come in the future. The fact that in this case proposals are made to introduce rules that already exist, and to start a work that is already in progress, is what I would like to call a misunderstanding. However, the important thing for me is that child protection supports children and families who need it. Child protection shall provide early action, prevention and support to enable the maximum number of children to grow up in their families and not least in their immediate environment. Good administrative principles are a prerequisite for the best possible performance of child protection tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2038	First of all, I would like to thank SV for promoting this proposal. Child protection is still in the spotlight. There is a good cause for concern — from how children are taken care of to economic bonds and gains that are not to be made. Despite constant intensifications, we experience critical aspects of child protection. This illustrates how complex and difficult the field is, but we should always strive to work for the protection of children who carry out their social work in the best possible way. It is incredibly important that child protection has confidence in the population. The central party therefore shares the concerns of the proposers. It is serious for both legitimacy and trust in child protection when unlucky roles arise. We need good legislation, knowledge and supervision to prevent double roles and instability situations from taking place. The Central Party believes that we already have clear formal frameworks that deal with the question of stability and instability. The regulatory framework appears to be robust, but a number of issues show that enforcement of the legislation fails in some cases. The central party is of the opinion that a targeted effort should therefore be undertaken to strengthen knowledge of the rules of stability and to raise awareness among employers and employees in the public sector of dual roles. We have therefore proposed this together with the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party, and we are pleased that many parties support us. Furthermore, I must say that I am disappointed with the government's understanding of these questions. In the setting, the government parties refer to today’s rules and guidelines related to the incapacity of railway protection staff and only confirm that there is sufficient legislation to ensure this. But it's just in compliance with the law it's failed. We agree that the law exists, but infringement has nevertheless taken place. What does the government actually intend to do with that? Here we propose that we put in place targeted work to increase the knowledge of the rules of stability among employers and employees in the public sector, but unfortunately the government parties seem to be satisfied with today's state of affairs. Responsibilities were transferred to the counties and municipalities. Of course, the municipalities and county councillors have a responsibility to ensure that unlucky roles do not arise, but the overall responsibility lies at the seventh and last of all with the Council of State – that is what it does. I also note that the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and the Ministry of Modernisation has, at the hearing, had a proposal for guidance on the registration system for the financial interests of civil servants. The party to the centre is of the opinion that an absolute registration system in the protection of children should be considered as one of the measures to ensure that employees of the public child protection system do not have any commercial interests that could cause unlucky roll-overs. But notice that the Ministry's proposal means that only a voluntary registration system is established – I repeat voluntarily. In practice, it means that it will be entirely up to the employer to put in place a registration scheme for the financial interests and involvement of employees. It's a little offensive from the government. I will end by saying something about what I think is the whole reason why we are here today and are debating double roles, namely the commercialisation of child protection. A well-functioning and strong welfare society presupposes that the population has confidence in the management of Community funds. When people experience that actors are unduly enriching themselves on Community funds, they weaken both the tax will and the welfare pillars of the society. I believe we can no longer accept that private operators have their own profits and financial interests in focus when they enter and provide services in the child protection sector. Let it be clear: the centre party will continue to support proposals and measures aimed at strengthening our Community solutions. We do not want a development where an increasing share of public services is owned and operated by commercial groups. We will work to ensure that the responsibilities and operation of important public services remain with municipalities and county municipalities. Not least, it is important in the field of child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2061	I believe that child protection is the most important service we have in our society. Child protection is set to protect the most important thing we have, namely our kids – because all children have the right to a safe and well-grown, with love and care. All children shall be protected against care failure, violence and abuse. If we can't protect our kids, it's a betrayal of society. That's why it's so fundamentally dangerous, what's now happening in our child protection. The service set to protect some of the most vulnerable children in society has been the subject of market thinking, profit me, and the children are offered. Publicly purchased child protection services for SEK 2.9 billion kr in 2016 – an increase of 24 pst. from 2013. Five large welfare groups have taken over more and more parts of child protection and have a total turnover of 3.2 billion. kr. Four of the five groups are controlled by international purchase funds registered in tax havens. It has now gone so far that profit motives and commercial interests threaten the best interests of children. There have been ever new revelations of commercial interests in the field of child protection, including: in one case VG mentioned 14 January 2018, which showed that 59 child protection employees have sold or sold private child protection services at the same time as working or having worked for public child protection. It must be raised beyond doubt that the best interests of the child are always given priority to child protection, and never commercial interests. It is essential for children to have the care and protection they require, and it is essential for society's trust in child protection. Therefore, there is a great need to identify the scope of dual roles in child protection, to examine whether commercial interests may have affected matters and to assess the need to strengthen legislation and legislation, so that this should never happen. I am pleased that a majority on the Stortinget today is asking the government to spread knowledge about the sustainability code we already have – that is fine. But I'm disappointed that the other parties are not willing to go far enough to ensure that the consideration of the children always goes first. I am disappointed that the government parties and the Christian People's Party are voting against proposals to examine double roles in child protection and strengthen the law. It refers to monitoring, to voluntary registration schemes and letters, which in themselves are supported by SV, but it does not meet with reality when child protection has been commercialised as strongly as it has been in recent years. Stronger measures are needed, so that we can be one hundred percent sure that all children in child protection get the help they need, and not get a worse offer because of private profit motives. With that, I take up SV's proposal and inform you that SV votes primarily for our two original proposals and secondary for the proposals No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2082	The representative Freddy André Supreme Court has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2087	Child protection has the world's most important job of ensuring the safety and care of our most vulnerable children. It is of absolute importance that they have confidence in the population and run the service professionally and tidyly. This is precisely why there are many good rules and systems, including: for instability. There should be no doubt in this Chamber that the whole committee is concerned about just these things. We also see that in the matters we have dealt with earlier in this session, where we include: has included the concept of love related to the protection of children. For the left, it is important that each child is seen, and that it is met and cared for according to its individual needs. That is why I believe it is important that all – public, private and non-profit sector – contribute to the development of child protection services. It is precisely what creates the good Community solutions. We need a variety of offers where individuals are cared for, with dedicated and competent people who care and who do a good job. At the same time, of course, demands must be made. When you hear some of the previous speakers, I ask myself if everyone has just realized that we are in complete agreement on this: we have to make demands. That is why we already have legislation in place today to prevent the dual role situation. Of course, it matters what demands are being made, but I almost feel here that it is not so important for parts of the opposition to make demands, the most important thing is to prevent people who have good ideas about how to solve things better, getting the opportunity to do so. It is basically an ideological struggle, not a glance at practical policy. It is not permitted for child-restraint workers to book services on their own today. And I am pleased that the Council of State and the Department have launched and announced new measures to check that this legislation is being complied with. And when the term ‘taft’ is used, I wonder if it is appropriate to take action and notify new demands before a proposal comes to Stortinget. I'd rather say that it's being proactive, not being lost. But then it might be taken not to agree to exactly the suggestions that part of the opposition believes are the right ones. I am pleased that we are not further tightening the legislation in this field now, because then I am afraid that we could in the utmost consequence get a system like this. the prohibition on a person employed in the public child protection service in Oslo to sell services in his municipality of origin, such as: Berum, by being a foster parent. So you had very unintended consequences, because it's a good thing to be able to contribute to your local community even if you work in another municipality. What we need to do in the future is to ensure and ensure that the quality of child protection services is good, and that all children who need help get it, just in time. We shall not be afraid to make demands, as it is done, but to prohibit public employees from connecting to private child protection, when it is neither a question of unethical role-playing or intrusion, is a pure and severe derailment. The left is concerned, what I'm concerned about, is that we ensure good Community solutions, and we do that when we manage to have a good community between the public and the private, where we make clear demands, but raise good ideas.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2106	I think it has been said very well in the debate so far. This with the best of children is one of the most important things that politicians can work for. And the kids who need us the most are the ones who don't have a safe home. It's these kids the child protection meets and helps every day across our country. We have to make sure that we have a child protection system in Norway that is always based on what is best for children. These children depend on the fact that the adults in child protection have one single goal for the eye, namely to ensure the safest growth possible for those who have lost that security instead of being the safest, namely their own home. That is why I was very concerned when VG reported possible double roles and problems with the stability of child protection employees. And that same week I sent the following written questions to the Minister for Children: ‘What concrete action will the government take to prevent the problematic situation of dual roles and instability conflicts that arise when child-restraint workers sell private child-rescue services in the same municipality where they work?’ There was some of this that was revealed, which caused great unrest, and which, of course, also aroused our interest, which is working politically with this area. Governments responded, inter alia: that Bufdir now monitors employees in the state child protection system may be inhabitable due to abstinence. This survey is also referred to in the response of the Council of State to this proposal for a representative. It is Christian People's Party's opinion that Bufdir should have work to complete the monitoring and initiate the actions that they see are necessary. But this is a situation that needs to be followed up, both by the Council of State and by the Stortinge. We simply can't risk the children becoming victims of adults' wishes for extra income or some extra jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2123	I am proud of all the child-restraint workers who go to work every day with one goal in mind, namely to help all the children who are exposed to care failure or otherwise need follow-up and assistance from safe and clear adults. I am proud of the child protection we have today, thinking with great concern about what had happened to all the children who are receiving help today, if we had not had a child protection service that goes in and prevents, detects, treats, provides care and pursues aftercare that children who are not taken care of well by their caregivers, by their parents, will have the opportunity to have a good childhood and to manage themselves in life. Still, we're going to discuss and look at solutions to improve child protection, because there are always challenges, and that's always how we can get better. I fully understand that many react when they read in the VG about these double roles. I am very pleased that all the parties are so concerned that double roles in child protection are unacceptable, and I am pleased with the commitment that several of the representatives of the Committee have shown. It's an important signal to those who run this field, that big-time politicians don't accept that someone sits on both sides of the table and orders a job for themselves to make money on it. I would like to stress that it is totally unacceptable that someone sits and makes assessments and makes decisions that are not alone and that it is the best of children that is crucial. It should not be possible, therefore I also understand that SV is promoting such a proposal, namely to be clear that this should not be possible. Therefore, I am pleased that this has received attention, and that you are now so clear from all parties that this should not be possible. That is why I took the initiative of a full review by the Directorate of Education of the Ministry of Education in the Ministry of Children and Gender. The Directorate now conducts a survey of all employees in Bufetat. We have checked the personal data of all employees in the State Child Protection Service, cross-checked data from the business register against the directorate’s invoice processing – this to ensure that no one can sit and have bee jobs on which they earn money, and thus also produce jobs for themselves. As of today, there are no such double roles. We have a code that should not make it possible, and our monitoring is clear that this is not the case today. We've strengthened the internal control procedures, we've intensified information, knowledge and guidance, and we've clearly told all the child welfare leaders that they're going to review and have an overview of all of their employees and make sure that no one can have such a double role. We have clearly stated that when employed it should be checked out, and that the employee has an obligation to inform his employer if it is a grey zone. In that case, there will be a breach of the administrative law and the grounds for dismissal, which says that today's legislation is crystal clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2132	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2137	I want to tell the Council of State that I fully agree with her statement that everyone will the best of these children. What we disagree about is the way to do it. After all, child protection has been thoroughly evaluated several times, and I want to refer to two reports from Vista Analysis, where, among other things. point out the extensive and unregulated use of private operators. This is from 2015. Child protection managers themselves want to reduce the use of private actors. From 2016, the report points to important issues related to the issue we are dealing with today, namely legal certainty, stability and costs. It is also pointed out that there are too many case handlers, i.e. administrative bureaucracy is increasing. Does the content of these two reports concern the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2142	What worries me is that we are not discussing this issue today, namely the SV proposal on how we can put in place measures to prevent double roles. When the case is presented by the rapporteur, she comes up with an ideological attack rather than discussing the seriousness of this matter on what Stortinget is going to do to prevent us from creating cases where we have employees sitting on both sides of the table. This is a serious matter. I am pleased that most parties are concerned about the seriousness of the matter and what we can do together. I also know that we are going to come back and discuss how we are going to reduce the diversity of the child protection sector – that the Labour Party wants it. But I have to say, we're going to be a little careful about how we talk about those who work in child protection... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2147	Then the Council of State might have the opportunity to answer another question from Kari Henriksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2152	This shows that there's a political difference in how we think about the measures for these children, that's a completely fair thing. But let me go back to being very concrete. This 2016 Vista report addresses sustainability issues. It's from 2016 – does it worry the Council of State? The council and this government have been responsible for this for almost five years, one may have birthday cakes soon. Five years – capacity is a challenge. Does the Council of State worry that these children are living under a service that is challenging in terms of stability and legal certainty?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2157	Then the State Council of Hofstad will have the opportunity to elaborate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2162	If this is an indication that our private providers are not so concerned about the legal certainty of the child or about the stability of the child, then that gives cause for concern. I know that it is under this government, unlike a government run by the Workers' Party, that we have really strengthened and tightened up the legislation, that we have made sure that the Directorate is now very vigilant and follows up the legislation with regard to the private and, in the case of municipalities, what services they can purchase from the private, and what services they can use from the private. I am concerned that when we are going to spend the community's money on actors to help these children, it should be transparent, then we should be able to make very clear demands and have a very clear regulatory framework. Therefore, I am pleased that the government has done so, contrary to what the Workers' Party was able to do during its eight years.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2173	It's been 13 years since we joined the government, so it's good that the Council of State is concerned about what happened last year and the year before there. I'm busy with what's going on right now. So this is no indication that a person puts some private players in any position. This is a question related to the fact that the government is responsible for the operation of child protection and is responsible for these children. What the Workers' Party is asking for is just concrete action. Now we have had the legislation the Council of State mentions, and one will not go into the proposal for the Workers' Party, which only asks for a survey of the situation – just to follow up on whether one actually comes back to the Stortinge with measures that can be taken to address, if necessary, the sustainability challenges we see. So I ask again, what concrete actions will the government and the state council take to map out the consequences of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2178	Then I have to repeat myself, so if the Workers' Party can try to listen: the survey has been carried out by all employees in Buffetat. As of today, there are no stability challenges related to any employee in the registers to which it relates. We have taken a review where the directorate has established new measures for the continuous follow-up of all employees' beekeeping. We require the employees to report any bee jobs. We demand all child protection managers and employers. We have talked about this with the KS – which is also very concerned about it – and with all the statesmen. We are now delivering a new guide and updating knowledge. We're evaluating a new register. The working party comes and asks for a screening – I think that is very small. Here we work from day to day, and this is at the top of our agenda, because double roles in child protection are totally unacceptable. We're acting rather than investigating.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2186	I experience a committed Minister for Children and Gender Equality on these questions, which has just rammed up a lot of things that the ministry is doing. I did not fully appreciate whether there was a particular focus on knowledge towards the employees. We have a proposal that will have a majority today, asking the government to strengthen knowledge of the rules of stability and to make employers and employees in the public sector aware of double roles. I cannot quite understand why the Council of State did not recommend the parties to participate in that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2191	I'd like to answer that. There was nothing wrong with the proposal, but we are already in the process. We are now developing a guide to inform and increase knowledge of these challenges for employees. So the matter of this proposal is already under preparation. Then I am also happy that the managers in Bufetat have conversations with their employees, so that they can just raise these issues on the agenda. We have had cases of this for many years – unfortunately – and therefore it is so important that we now have a code that is crystal clear, that is in place and that does not allow beekeeping or double-rolling. At the same time, it is also important to hit it hard if the mapping also shows that some people are trying to have such double roles, as we have seen before.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2198	There can be no doubt that children who need protection and care from child protection receive the offer they are entitled to, and not a worse offer because someone is going to make money on it. Nevertheless, the government parties today do not choose to support SV's proposal to examine double roles in child protection and to get stronger legislation in place. I would like to ask the Council of State whether she can say that the measures to which the Department refers are enough, and whether she can guarantee that it will prevent double roles in child protection in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2203	I would like to stress that I think there is an affordable initiative SV has come along, but instead of setting up a public sample to produce a NOU, which would take up to two years, we immediately started the survey. The monitoring has now been carried out, so the SV's proposal, which is under consideration today, has actually been accepted. Then we have a regulation, not least the administrative law, that will regulate this, but we're going through the practice, we're going through to make sure that both employers and employees are aware of their responsibilities. We are now evaluating this register. So here we have to work and come up with more measures and proposals, so we don't have to do this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2208	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2215	I need to link some comments to some of the statements that have come here from the pulpit, among others. that the Workers' Party is attacking the private. The working party has never attacked the private ones. We've attacked the policy that gives the private big leeway, and that's a completely different matter. So I would point out that someone has commented that this is a derailment of the debate, and that we are talking about many things. Here we are talking about stability, and what the Workers' Party has included in its articles has not been about the matter itself, about double roles. I would quote from that report from Vista Analysis, which was handed over to the government, and which they themselves have ordered: ‘There are also examples of one supplier having ties to another in the form of more or less formalised cooperation, and that one and the same case handler may have positions in both private and public child protection, possibly. other public establishments such as the BUP. Bindings to companies or companies of their own make it possible for the consultant to make some recommendations financially rather than others. This may raise questions about the motivation for the consultant’s recommendations and it may be very difficult for the child-protection manager to identify the facts.’» This report deals not only with having an economic relationship but also with commitments related to having tasks other than working in the field of child protection. So it's not just about money. These include: also on legal certainty, which I had in mind in my first post, on the principle of least effective action based on the fact that child protection interventions should not be more extensive or intrusive than is necessary to ensure the desired outcome. Down in the South, we've had a lot of challenging child-rescue stuff lately. There, in the public debate, questions have been raised as to whether there is sufficient control of the service provision of private child protection services. It's not a criticism of those who provide services, but it's a criticism of the system that's going to handle that control. We fully agree that children who are failing by their neighbors deserve the best of the community, but there is conflicting consideration when one wants to mix public with the commercial, private. The working party then believes that there is not enough screening, nor is there enough excessive bidding bureaucracy. It mostly affects ideal actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2229	First, I have to say one thing from this debate, about the time perspective and the speed of action. There, I think it is important to stress that SV is both proposing a wide-ranging review, which includes not least whether commercial interests may have affected concrete child protection issues, which in that case are extremely important to be brought to light, and we also ask for immediate action to make the role mix in child protection impossible. I have to say it is worrying to hear that the Council of State of the United Kingdom can't guarantee that the best interests of the children are always given greater weight, without being influenced by commercial interests. Double roles in child protection are one of many revelations that show how commercial interests and profits stand in the way of children’s offers. For example, the Riksrevision recently says that private shelters pose a danger, and we know that four of the five major commercial child protection groups are controlled by international purchasing funds registered in tax havens. In other words, billions who should have gone to a better offer to the children disappear out of the country. That's why I have to ask the right-hand side a question, whether they still believe that child protection is suitable for the market and profit, or whether the right-hand side can concede that exactly this service should we maybe not, maybe we should let the community do it. We should probably leave it -- without any doubt about what kind of considerations are put first, namely, the consideration of the children. I had hoped that we could discuss that today, but we'd rather take that fight further.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2238	I want to direct the attention of the organisation Change Factory. It consists of former child-restraint children, traveling around and telling about their experiences in child-restraint. They've actually met as many as 1,200 child-restraint children. They've shared knowledge of what it's like to be a child protection child, whether it's municipal, non-profit or private. What they're concerned about is what it's like to be a child in child protection. They are concerned with the movement of children — often themselves — humiliating, marginalising, intoxicating, etc. When you first open the debate on double roles, and here too you start to put in ideological notions about private/non-private, I think we actually have to discuss the experience of some of these children who have been in child protection. It's actually completely gone here today. I believe that what the Workers' Party is doing is an attack on the private and those who work there, and there is a story being made that the work they do is not qualitative at the same level as what they do in the ideal or public sense. I miss evidence of that. We all agree that double roles should not occur. The Council of State has said here today that there is no evidence that these are double roles. What's so nice is that when private or ideals don't do what they're supposed to do, you can actually cancel these contracts. I just miss that we're getting a debate, as SV was in here, about what it's actually like to be a child in child protection today and focus more on quality. At least I have not seen any evidence that it is worse or better in the municipal, private or ideals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2249	The representative, Freddy André, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2254	I think everyone in this room is concerned that children's protection will get the best offer they can get, but then we're a little bit in disagreement about what kind of instruments you're going to use to achieve it. Some of us also believe that how we organise child protection has something to say about what kind of child protection we finally get out to the children. Then I just have to make a quick comment to the committee chairman's input here about these child-restraint organisations. Then it's interesting that the message we get from both the Children's Protection Professionals at the Change Factory and the National Children's Protection Association is that they don't want the commercialization and profit that have evolved in child protection in recent years. In fact, I believe that the double roles we've seen in child protection lately are part of the larger picture, and then I think it's right that we take it up here on the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2261	It is important for me to stress, since SV obviously did not hear that I started my post instead of saying it, that there is only one thing that should lead the work done in child protection, and that is the child's best. The principle that the best interests of the child are at the heart of decisions taken and within a sound financial framework is that of child protection. When I was in the family and culture committee while SV was in charge of the Ministry of Children and Family, there were many things we read about in the press, about what I would simply call cowboys, who were driving in the field of child protection. I must say that there has been a great improvement. It is absolutely impossible today to go into child protection with double roles and run institutions from a perspective of just making money. It was institutions that worked doorkeepers, who had no child protection skills, no education. I talked to one of these kids last week. It was a strong story. There they used power, where they used force, where they worked it people without child protection skills, and the rush flourished at the institution. Then it was SV who ran the Child Protection. We've had a mapping of the double roles. It's just done. It turns out that there are no double roles, as far as we can see in the registers we check up on, among Bufatat's employees. I think it's a little sad when the Workers' Party and SV saw that they were talking down the private child protection. A few days ago, I was visiting a private children's shelter and talking to the people who are going to work to help these kids. When they hear politicians talking down the value of the work they're doing, just like it's not as much worth because they've decided to work for a child protection professional who's just trying to make money on the kids, then I understand that they feel that it's a little hard to go and do an equally good job for these kids. I think it is a pity that it is not the offer to the children that will be the leader of the offer we are making. These kids are different, and they have very different needs. We must then facilitate a diversity of actors, so that the service can be tailor-made for each child, so that each child is given the help they need, and has the opportunity to be able to support a life even when they are finished in the field of child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2275	I just want to give an explanation to the committee leader, Mr. Örmen Johnsen. Unlike the State Councils, the Workers' Party has never said that commercials provide better services than private ones. It has been stated by the Council of State, but she said in a letter to the Stortinget that there is no evidence of it – and that is quite ok. It's a question of ideological policy. The right-hand side tries to make it appear that ideological policy is at a different level than the practical policy pursued by the right-hand side. Can I then interpret it in such a way that the practical policy on the right does not have a basis for political ideology? Then at least I start to wonder at the statements of the Progress Party – not look at what we're doing, but look at our program. The argument falls on stone ground. What we've witnessed here today is that the right-hand side creates a rhetoric and argument that the left-hand side has never promoted. At least the working party has not used a rhetoric that criticises the fact that there are commercial actors inside the child protection side. We have disagreed in the amount, we have disagreed in the device, and we disagree that the government establishes an instrument that actually increases the commercial element rather than reduce it. The question here concerns trust in child protection. The question here is how we're going to deal with the fact that every day there's a child going from home where they're neglected, taking on the job, going to school, knowing they're going out, knowing they're being bullied, knowing they're being neglected. The confidence these children must have in the State, the confidence these parents must have in the State, and the confidence that the service must have in their own activities is at the heart of this question. The left-hand side, and the Workers' Party, feel that it is becoming more difficult to establish trust when we have equalised commercial and public actors in this service. It is good that the government comes with a strengthening of the regulatory framework. We are for that. We're because the government says there won't be any double roles. What we're criticising is that they lean back a little and don't want stronger tools – and that's a real political difference.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2286	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2302	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2311	First of all, I would like to thank the proposers for raising an important issue, and that is why we have the opportunity today to have a discussion in this Chamber on this very issue. I would also like to thank the Committee for its very good cooperation and thank everyone out there. A number of organisations and individuals have made representations to us, and we appreciate that very much. Unfortunately, discrimination and racism are no new phenomenon, nor in our society and in small Norway. For those who have a historical perspective on this, it is obvious that negative thoughts, opinions and actions against groups and other people are happening in all societies and that have happened at all times. Fortunately, there are great differences and variations over time in the strength and social acceptance of such discrimination. A little while ago we received a reminder in an article that this year it was 50 years since Martin Luther King died. We also received a reminder that you are far away from the dream that he had. Of course, a lot of good happens in the field, and I think all the parties here in this room agree that there is a debate that must be taken, and must be taken every single day, not just the day you have it for treatment here in the hall itself. Racism and discrimination can in fact, in their ultimate consequence, be as serious as genocide. But even in mild forms, it is very restrictive for those people who are just being hit by racism. Fortunately, we live in a time and in a society where the existence of racism and discrimination may be less than what is seen in any other country, but there is no reason to stop such an important work. Perhaps there is just an extra important reason why the fight against racism and discrimination is a continuous process. Just as we should never take freedom and democracy for granted, neither can we take for granted that prejudices and negative thoughts about other peoples are not going to get their foothold. An example that we must never forget is Holocaust. The last surviving eyewitnesses are not so many left, but fortunately, and I'm very pleased, Norwegian school classes are still traveling to Auschwitz and other concentration camps just to learn. Changes in the population and changes in society mean that other groups are now experiencing discrimination. It is in no way acceptable, and for me it is important to combat all kinds of racism, religious discrimination, anti-semitism, social control, prejudices based on sex, sexual identity, ethnicity, etc. We have therefore seen in the discussion of the matter that the basis for discrimination can be defined in many ways, and although I believe that the real struggle is to prevent all prejudices, all negative attitudes and expressions of action against others, discriminating treatment of people is something we should not find ourselves in at all. I would just like to stress that an action plan is one measure. But the problem needs to be approached from more than just action plans. This is a social responsibility that I think is important to stress that everyone has to be conscious.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2330	Thank you to the President-in-Office for letting us through this matter. There has been quite a lot of work. In particular, I would like to thank the representative Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen of the Central Party for raising the issue in a representative proposal and for the efforts she has made to reach a joint proposal on the matter. Finally, agreement was reached on a proposal for an action plan against ethnic and religious discrimination. For the Workers' Party, it has been important not to make the plan too comprehensive. We've waited long enough, and as we read society, it's Muslim hatred and religious discrimination it's important to get something done quickly. Every day we judge people without knowing them. We don't know who they are, what values they have, or what experiences they have in their luggage. Nevertheless, we believe that we know something about them – based on what they wear, body shape, name, skin color or the congregation they belong to. Some allow such notions to develop into dangerous attitudes about the weakness of others and their own superiority. Racism and ethnic discrimination are more widespread than we like to admit. Anti-racist Centers launched last fall a report showing that one in four minority students experiences racism several times a month — one in four! "We won't play with you because you're brown," they called the report. Among other things, it is said that about a boy who was harassed at high school by the other students because he had a different name and a different background. Because of this, the family had to move — because of group thinking. That this happens in the country where 15-year-old Benjamin was killed because of his skin color and we promised each other that we would never forget is not to believe. Since 2013, the Anti-racist Centre has been demanding an action plan against racism and Muslim hatred. Because after the Solberg government took over, we haven't had such a plan. The government would work against ethnic discrimination in ways other than through action plans. We do not need an action plan to combat racism and ethnic discrimination. It lasts with actions. But nothing does not carry us on. Last autumn, the Minister for Children and Gender Equality received the report ‘Holdings for Jews and Muslims in Norway 2017’, prepared by the HL Centre, the Centre for the Study of Holocaust and Life Vision Minorities. It shows that there is a positive trend in attitudes towards Jews. Stereotypes and prejudiced attitudes have been reduced. Jewish organisations have done a lot by being clear and publicly promoting debate. But the report also showed that negative stereotypes of Muslims are significant. The total is 34.1 pst. the population condemned Muslims, and the entire 48 pst. Muslims themselves feel much of the blame for increased Muslimism. We are required to do something with such prejudices, because they lay the basis for racist actions and group thinking and lead little girls and boys to experience having shell words and stones thrown after themselves in the schoolyard. I would like to refer to the Workers' Party's proposal on requirements for religious and life-seeking societies, which I believe were a contribution to giving less weight to discrimination arguments, but which were downgraded. I'll quote Ervin Kohn: ‘Working with attitudes is a little more demanding than disseminating knowledge, because it requires more of us. We must all go ahead as good examples and recognize and correct attitudes. Group thinking is the worst thing. We all have a racist in us that sticks our heads out when we think about the group." It is the group thinking that takes over when we let our own fear of the stranger be a guide instead of seeking knowledge and dialogue, which – in my opinion – when someone will ban prayers from the miner's right because it 'is perceived as embarrassing and inappropriate too many'. It's just that in 2018, not so many people use beans. Now we've come into the technological age, and most people have an app that summons people to the Friday prayer. Action plans against antisemitism, radicalisation and violent extremism, hateful expressions and discrimination are available because of sexual orientation, gender identity and gender expression. But we do not have an overall action plan against ethnic and religious discrimination. I would like to thank the Central Party for the initiative. We cannot be familiar with the figures that appeared in the reports I have mentioned. Because behind each number there's a story, like the one about the boy who eventually had to move.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2354	It's a happy day today. We have managed to unite, unanimously, in the committee to give the government the task of creating an action plan against racism and ethnic and religious discrimination – and to implement the action plan in particular. I am sending a thank you to the Central Party, which made the proposal. It was a little wider than what we have here, yet we have put discrimination on the agenda. It was mentioned by previous speakers that the Anti-racist Centres have worked – and work – systematically to combat discrimination in Norway. You think I'm very happy today that we're going to adopt this action plan. What they have discovered in their reports may not be the gross ethnic and religious discrimination, but what we may be most plagued with, everyday discrimination, which is difficult to deal with. If words and expressions are repeated often enough, they get attached, and it gets kind of legitimate. We know that you have a foreign name, you have 25 pst. less likely to be invited to a job interview, and public as a private sector. In fact, the private sector is more attractive to take in people with foreign names, and there are also more private sector leaders who do not have a purely Norwegian origin. We need to ensure equal rights for all, regardless of gender, ethnic or religious background, functionality or sexual orientation. The way to do this is, of course, what we are doing today, by creating an action plan. But I also think we need good role models in Norway. Politicians are also role models. How we talk about discrimination is important, and I have to say that I have a concern about part of what I see when we discuss. In particular, there are quite a number of extreme attitudes in the online communities. The web roles we have to try to meet and get along with, because they are the ones that create attitudes that are cemented. It is made a small point that the government may have been passive or not done anything in this case. That doesn't lead to correctness. Many cross-sectoral initiatives have been taken to address discrimination on different grounds, including: the strategy against hateful opinions, the action plan against anti-semitism, the action plan against discrimination based on sexual orientation, gender identity and gender expression, the action plan on universal design and the action plan on radicalisation and violent extremism. Now that we have a cross-sectoral action plan to address this, I think it will be important to follow-up – and also evaluate: are we going to get something better? Does this make it better? Are we getting less discrimination from these action plans? We're in on it, because we believe in it. At the same time, we need to work systematically in all sectors, whether health, school or kindergarten – I also mentioned business – just to prevent this type of discrimination. With regard to the Central Party's initial concern that the action plan should also include discrimination on grounds of disability, the government has stated in letters from the Council of State that better coordination of measures is needed for people with disabilities. A State Secretary's own committee has been set up to consolidate this work. User organisations have also been withdrawn. So I guess we'll hear more about it. But it's a happy day.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2373	I follow up the previous speeches and will point out that today we are doing something really good, you – even if perhaps a little overtime. For today, the United Kingdom is jointly adopting an action plan against racism and ethnic and religious discrimination. Early this year, the Central Party promoted proposals for a new national action plan against racism and discrimination. Although our original proposal is not adopted today, I am nevertheless very pleased that our initiative has put the topic on the agenda, because the Central Party and I strongly want to do something about racism and discrimination in our society – especially when we see that various reports, surveys and statistics indicate that there is a growing problem. A society in which people are categorised, discriminated against, bullied, harassed and subjected to threats and hatred by just being who they are is totally unacceptable. The UN Committee on Racial Discrimination has called for such a national action plan against all discrimination, as proposed by the Centre Party. In 2015, the Committee criticised Norway for not having an operational action plan in this area, as set out in the Durban Declaration. Many others have also called for an overall action plan against racism and discrimination. The comments refer to several of the organisations that have asked for such a plan, which we have not had for many years. The whole thing has, among other things: expressed their support for the proposal of the Centre Party, for today's cohabitation continues to experience a great deal of discrimination – at school, in the workplace and in the community. The same thing happens to people with disabilities. The organisation Stop discrimination, which works against discrimination against this group, also wanted an overall plan, as they feel that a challenge is that disabled people are not actually treated in the same way as other groups in the fight against discrimination themselves. - Chew it. People with disabilities and Muslims are, moreover, the groups that really need action plan now. This came out when we organised a workshop in the Zenterpartie in connection with our representative proposal. All the parties in the committee were invited there. The left took part, and the minutes and written recordings were sent to the rest of the committee afterwards – and well received, I experienced. The aim of the workshop was to work together to find out how best to implement an action plan against racism and discrimination. Following the workshop, the Committee was presented in writing for work undertaken by the Ministry in the preparation of an adopted strategy against discrimination against people with disabilities, which now also receives a more concrete part of the action. I hope and believe that the department will follow this up, as it will be much more tangible for that group than just the intended strategy. The challenges of growing Muslim hatred and discrimination against other religious and ethnic groups, which together – on the other hand, it takes into account the somewhat narrower action plan we are adopting today, and I am pleased about that. Others would argue that action plans do not solve any challenges, but I believe such plans are important. They become aware of and act as tools, at least if you undertake to implement them. It is also important that the measures are operational and can be implemented. In order for a plan to be anchored and legitimised by those to implement the measures, good processes involving stakeholders and relevant civil society actors are important. This is something more participants from different organisations pointed out when the Centre Party held the workshop. They also pointed to a more inter-sectional approach and that external evaluators should evaluate the plans along the way. These recordings are very useful, I think, mainly because they come from those who work closely on the issues we are discussing today, but also because they have experience and knowledge of how previous and other action plans have worked. We in the Centre Party, together with SV, therefore promote proposals for evaluation, intersectionality and broad representation from civil society in our work on our overall plan – which does not receive a majority today. But it's my hope that those recordings are still included in the work of initiating what gets a majority. Finally, I would like to stress once again that it is very positive that we in the Committee now have an action plan against racism and ethnic and religious discrimination. It has actually been very good to work together in this matter, and I look forward to the action plan being put in place. I'll take up the suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2405	The representative of Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2410	Racism and discrimination are married to a society. It destroys cohesion, suppresses groups and stands in the way of freedom. The high-ranking extremists march again in Europe's streets, marching with a racist message. The Nynazist Party of Golden Daggry is among Greece’s largest parties, right-wing extremists sit close to the power of Hungary, and in Sweden there is a danger that the right-wing radical party of Nazi roots, namely the Swedish Democrats, can become the country’s largest party. Norwegian society has long been characterised by small differences between people and a high level of trust. But now that the inequality of power and wealth is increasing, we are no longer exempt from threatening racism. In my home state of Eastfold, the Nynazist organization is the Nordic resistance movement on the march, with markings and actions. I can't go from the train station and home to the apartment without seeing at least five stickers with Nazi messages, just on the five-minute walk. Racism and the progress of hatred spread fear. It particularly affects the Muslims. In December 2017, the HL Centre launched a report on the position of Norwegian society on Jews and Muslims in Norway. The report found that strongly negative stereotypes of Muslims are prevalent. Among other things, 27.8 pst. by the respondents that they feel reluctance to Muslims and 19.6 p.m. would not have liked to have Muslims as neighbors or in the circle of friends. A knowledge review prepared for Bufdir in 2015 already said in its conclusion: ‘The time has therefore come to recognise that ethnic discrimination is a problem in Norwegian society, and instead focus on when and where it happens, what it is caused and how we can do something about it.’ We have had concrete national action plans against ethnic discrimination for many years, but that has been the end of the last few years. That is why I am very pleased that we are today implementing a national action plan against racism and ethnic and religious discrimination. As previous speakers, however, I am disappointed that there will not be a majority in favour of an overall action plan against all forms of discrimination, as the Central Party's proposal was initially called for. The worst consequence of the lack of ambition in that field is that people with disabilities once again fall between the chairs and are not heard. Indeed, with the Committee's suspension, discrimination against persons with disabilities will not be covered. It is serious, for this group encounters discrimination every day – when they do not come into service because it is not organised, when they do not get the dream job for which they are qualified, because the boss sees only disability and not the whole human being, or when the government complies with the universal design requirements of housing, and people who later in life have a disability are forced to move. It is so serious that of the 1,974 enquiries the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman received in 2015, 453 of them included disability. Then it is a pity that the government parties have actively taken this group out of the action plan, and therefore SV takes up the proposals we are on and vote primarily for them – because all forms of racism and discrimination must be combated, because no one is free until everyone is free.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2432	I would like to welcome a new action plan against racism and ethnic and religious discrimination. It's unfortunately very topical. An example of that is the process around the 8th March appeal in Bergen this year, where Sumaya Jirde Ali first chose to resign because of a lot of hoarseness. It requires courage to participate in public debate when you are told that you should be poured on petrol and burned when you speak out. This much courage should not be needed, for freedom of expression should apply to all. We see that out-of-date, destructive attitudes towards people's groups are being re-identified. Prominent politicians in other Western democracies allow themselves a rhetoric that threatens the vibrant and inclusive society. The Internet and social media make us more likely to see hateful statements on the press, or to see them bright in front of us on the screen, preferably signed with a full name and picture. It's become common, but it's not okay, and it's important that we now say clearly about it. We have seen several action plans and actions in different areas of discrimination in recent years, and not least we have just updated the rules of discrimination in order to respond to the different forms of discrimination we see. But it's a hole exactly in racism and ethnic discrimination, and we have to focus our efforts on this. It also became clear after the many recordings that came from organisations during the handling of this case, including the following: at that workshop. In the worst case, the alternative to doing nothing is to legitimize xenophobia and fear. A society where people who have darker skin color than the average or who belong to a minority religion, do not feel respected or welcome, is not a society I want. It belongs to another time and not to the modern Mangfolds-Norway. We're going to work on a government platform in the back. The Jelaua platform clearly states that the government will fight racism and religious discrimination. Now we're going to start, and we're going to step up the stakes. I am pleased that we have put this action plan in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2445	First of all, thank you to the Central Party, which has promoted this important proposal for a representative. I would like to say that I fully agree with the representative Freddy André High Court that racism and discrimination are married to society. Racist attitudes, regardless of who they target, are totally unacceptable in a modern society. Therefore, discrimination and discriminatory behaviour must be prevented in many different ways and areas. The Committee has agreed that we ask the government to draw up and implement a new national action plan against racism and ethnic and religious discrimination. I am very pleased that the committee took on religious discrimination. We know that there is a lot going on, not least Muslim hatred, also in Norway. We see it online, as it's pointed out, and I've been scared to see the attitudes that appear there. I am pleased that this will not only be an action plan against racism and ethnic discrimination, but also against religious discrimination. We need that. It does not help to promote an action plan if there is also a lack of concrete action. That's why I'm excited, and I'd like to challenge the Council of State on what kind of action you can imagine that such an action plan could have. For plans we have enough of, but these are the measures – those that create change, that create a change – we have to take responsibility for getting in place. It was mentioned that the Anti-racist Centres have revealed a great deal about religious discrimination. They have done a very good job, and I heard that the committee leader appreciated the work of the Anti-racist Centres. It's a paradox that we've changed the key in such a way that the Anti-racist Centers, who have previously received grants over the key, are now completely and perhaps at risk of having to do this important work, which is to map and document what's happening in this field. That's why I hope the government parties are willing to look at other ways of financing such a mission, so that Anti-racist Centers can continue to reveal what they've done now. I just wanted to mention it as the committee leader praised the work of the Anti-racist Centres. We are totally dependent on the fact that we also have such actors in the future. It doesn't help to say what we say from this pulpit, if nothing happens out there, because that's where discrimination and racism exist. Otherwise, it is quite timely that the representative from SV also mentions this with discrimination against people with disabilities. People with disabilities experience a type of discrimination that is about them not feeling that they can live a life of their own. Either we're talking about students at school, about universal design, or we're talking about working life, you're facing a lot of obstacles. I know – at least I have understood it this way – that this is something the government is working on. I am very excited to hear how this work is going. I can promise that the Christian People's Party will follow closely the work done, and we will also propose measures to enable disabled people to feel that they are both valued in society, that they need it, and that it is not society that is the obstacle to allowing them to live completely independent lives. I'm excited if the Council of State will also include this in its article. I have at least understood it so that this is something the government is working on, and I'm very excited about what the result will be.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2462	We know that racism and discrimination are a problem in Norway. This gives cause for concern when the Holocaust Centre documents that one of three shows pronounced prejudices against Muslims and 30 pst. by the population, Muslims believe that they want to take over Europe. Racism and discrimination prevent inclusion. It creates fear and leads to mistrust. Equality is about getting equal opportunities, getting included and getting a job that you can qualify for, even if you have a disability or a foreign name. It's also about being able to express yourself without being heated up for who you are. I would like to thank the Central Party for the proposal that is being discussed today. It's a very good initiative, and I'm glad the committee supports it. The government is committed to ensuring equal rights to all, regardless of gender, ethnic or religious background, functionality or sexual orientation. For this reason, the government has also taken many cross-sectoral initiatives to meet the challenges of discrimination on different bases. I can mention some of the strategies we are working on now: it is the strategy against hateful expressions, we have an action plan against anti-semitism, an action plan against discrimination because of sexual orientation, gender identity and gender expression, we have an action plan for universal design and an action plan against radicalisation and violent extremism. The government has started work on a strategy plan for better coordination and implementation of the government's objectives on gender equality for people with disabilities. I can assure the representative of Bekkewold and the Christian People's Party that we are doing well to work on a strategy plan in the field of disability, and I am happy to come back with it. A separate State Secretary's Committee has also been set up to consolidate the work of the eight different departments responsible and affected by this. I would also like to assure the Christian People's Party that user organisations in the field and other important actors to whom we listen and who have good input will be involved in the work of creating this strategy plan. The government is lifting the work against sexual harassment on our political agenda, not least after consideration of proposals in the Storting. And, as the committee is well aware, I am investigating a low threshold offer for the enforcement of issues related to sexual harassment and I aim to send the proposal out to the hearing as soon as it is done. On 1 January this year, the new Equality and Discrimination Act and the Discrimination Ombudsman Act entered into force. For the first time, we have been given a separate provision which prohibits complex discrimination. This means that we also need to take into account the challenges of people belonging to ethnic or religious minorities, meeting as a result of age, gender, disability, sexual orientation or gender identity, or any other basis for developing new measures. As far as racism and discrimination are concerned because of ethnicity and religion, I believe that there is a need for a more general and coordinated effort than what we have today. In the Jeleia platform, the government has decided that we want to ‘[b]fight racism, religious discrimination, anti-semitism, social control and prejudices based on sex, sexual identity and ethnicity’. In the platform, we also say that we want: ‘[i]implement measures to combat discrimination in the labour market, the housing market and in the outings’. I believe that the proposal for an action plan against racism and discrimination on grounds of ethnicity and religion will help to follow up many of these points. I have not yet started working on the individual measures. In accordance with the decisions of the Stortinget, I will await, but I am pleased to begin this important work. – So thank you again to the Center Party for a good proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2499	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2504	I am very pleased that the minister thanks for the proposal, and that she also sees the value of the day today. But then comes the question: how do you get a good action plan against racism and ethnic and religious discrimination? The workshop we held in the Center Party gave many recordings from organisations that have worked a lot on this for many, many years. They say that they are often involved in the work on such plans, but that it is usually only a matter of time after the departments have worked on the plans. They're coming in too late. This has happened every time – under many governments, even under red-green governments – plans have been made. Can the Minister assure the Centre Party and all the other members of the Committee that civil society will be involved at an early stage in the work on an action plan this time?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2513	Yes, I can.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2518	I'm very pleased with that answer. Now the next question is: At that workshop, it was also pointed out that work against discrimination and racism was very often done very separately. There's a plan for you and a plan for your daughter, and it's not working very intersectionally. Among other things, the organisation Stop Discrimination, which works against discrimination against people with disabilities, points out that some of the things that are often most difficult for them are that they do not experience gender equality in gender equality. They are not included in the same way as in other work on discrimination and equality. Is it possible that the Minister may be concerned about a good interaction between the plan we are adopting today and the strategy and action plan part for those with disabilities currently being worked on?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2525	That's a very good input. A lot of people we're talking about now experience double discrimination. I had a conversation earlier today with someone who was a lesbian, who also represents a minority, and who thus experiences what the representative Sem-Jacobsen mentions. We have to try to make sure that we are able to lift this up, and look at what measures we can take to lift those who are extra vulnerable, who are extra vulnerable, and who are a minority in their own minority. These are relationships that I want to emphasize, and which I hope we can get attention around. I also want action to be taken, so that we help the most vulnerable.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2530	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2537	I am proud that the Central Party is putting this matter on the agenda. To develop an action plan against racism and discrimination with a broad approach, we believe that there is a need – a concrete and feasible plan, an overall plan that takes account of the complexity and complexity of racism and discrimination. When we discover more and more cases of discrimination and harassment, even in the ranks of our own parties, we have to dry to call a spade for a spade and take the spoon in our own hands. Unfortunately, today's outcome is more limited and narrow than the Senter party would have liked. The centre party recently organized a seminar on this topic. It was well visited, and the engagement was great. There we got a meeting between all the parties involved, both those working in the field and different fields, different groups and stakeholders as well as stakeholders. It was a strong meeting with constructive and useful input. Racism and discrimination are complex, and stakeholders whose quality of life is reduced by this deserve not to fall through the system, but rather to be met with warm hands, be seen and get concrete action. The seminar gave us a constructive dialogue which we must take with us, because we are not in the target here today. We need a zero vision for racism and discrimination, no matter how complex it is, and in what fields it is. We have to keep working for an inclusive and warm society. That's what the Center Party will do.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2546	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2562	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five series of replies be given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2571	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee for being so constructive and good partners in what has been my first case as case rapporteur – thank you for that. The representative proposal draws attention to how public funds intended to compensate for wage growth are used by the individual child protection service provider. The Committee has made it clear that the intention of the proposal was to deal with purchasing agreements, i.e. the agreements concluded between Bufetat or municipalities and private operators. The intention of the proposal to ensure good quality of welfare services financed by the public sector is, of course, agreed by the entire Committee, and this also includes good conditions for wage development. I would then like to point out that there are existing legislation in the area of regulation, namely the regulation on wage and working conditions requirements for employees of private operators, among others. the child-restraint area. The majority of the Committee, in its examination, has referred to this current legislation. Bufetate also introduced a separate risk assessment mechanism last year with subsequent monitoring of pay and working conditions. In other words, there is a system to deal with precisely the concerns to which this proposal for a representative refers. The majority are concerned that this scheme needs to work over a little more time before we may evaluate or see if the action taken is good enough. When it comes to negotiations on pay and working conditions in the field of child protection, the majority view is that this should be done by the social partners, in line with all other sectors. At the same time, it is important to look at the general requirements for the conclusion of the purchase agreements, but as mentioned above, this has already been taken care of by the current regulation, and that we need to look at the country-wide tariff agreements. The majority therefore believe that the concerns raised by this proposal for a representative are already addressed both by the existing legislation and not least by the measures taken to follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2584	Thank you to the President-in-Office. It was a good debut, and the representative has done a good job on the matter in the committee. This representative’s proposal is that the use of our common tax money to compensate for wage growth is assumed to be used just for wage growth, including in child protection. The need to look at this relationship is confirmed by one of the employees’ organisations, the Trade Union Confederation, in contact with the Committee of 22 January. Rejection of the case by the Council of State, inter alia: by pointing out that agreements on pay and working conditions are agreed by the parties, do not concern the professional organisation, which underlines their follow-up and implementation of local wage negotiations under the tariff agreements in question. Then there's hardly any reason for the council to worry. In the setting, government parties point out that government will reduce bureaucracy, facilitate the creation of new businesses and more profitable investment in Norwegian jobs, and hopefully Bufeta’s annual risk assessment and monitoring of pay and working conditions will contribute to even greater compliance with the requirements, it is said. The increased public bureaucracy resulting from the non-agreement of the use of compensation does not seem to interest government parties, despite the fact that important child protection work is replaced by resource use for controls. The Working Party recommends, together with the Centre Party and the SV, that the Government identify the scope of institutions that have not used index-linked wage resources for wages and salaries and that proposals be made for the necessary follow-up in the next year’s government budget. The Labour Party will also refer to the proposal we have put forward for consideration in the Committee, which I mentioned earlier today, to build ideal and public child protection. That is our primary position – strengthening and stepping up public and ideal child protection. When we do not fully support the SV's proposal for a representative, it is because we believe that the consequences are not well-lit. We don't know the total amount, and we don't know whether some private commercial ones will centralize the business, or maybe shut down the business. Being compensated for a cost is, of course, okay. However, to be compensated for a cost that has been removed is not paid, not least when it is the community that pays. I take up the proposal of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2607	The representative of Kari Henriksen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2612	The proposers indicate that there are taxes that finance public welfare, whether the services are provided by the public itself or by private actors. So far, I think we're all in line. It is also written that when the public pays private operators to provide a service, the public has to be free to decide how to use this money. It would be interesting to know whether this applies to the purchase of all goods and services – when it is the left-hand side that is on the trade. I would like to believe that it is primarily the quality and price of the goods that are the starting point when we shop – or order a good or service. I think everyone in this room is concerned about ensuring good quality in all welfare services financed by the public. This case is about compensation for salary growth in operational agreements in the field of child protection, and then there is a need to refer to the response from the Ministry. The Council of State points out that today there is a requirement for pay and working conditions in public contracts which, in the design of a purchase agreement, imposes on employees the pay and working conditions of employees of private operators. Furthermore, I think we all agree that pay and child protection terms should be determined by the social partners, as they do in other sectors. I think parts of the opposition use every opportunity to put private providers of welfare services in a bad light. We know that several thousand children all over the country are unfortunately dependent on child protection. Many get a good offer of high quality from private child protection measures. Some people want to prohibit this offer in this room. It will obviously affect children and young people who are totally dependent on these services. Child protection is fully the responsibility of public authorities, such as hospital services, kindergarten services and all the other key societal tasks. Therefore, the country purchases child protection services from non-profits and private individuals, as it also purchases services to treat, for example: sick children. It doesn't happen because they're private, but because they have the necessary skills when they need it in public. This provides public flexibility, gives public important competition and contributes to the creation of diversity and innovation in services. Bufetate carries out an annual risk assessment with subsequent monitoring of pay and working conditions. These assessments were introduced last year and it is therefore a little early to draw conclusions now. But let's all have some ice in our stomachs before we establish new demands and procedures for suppliers of child protection. The result may quickly be that we make it more difficult for them to contribute effectively with quality, diversity, job creation and innovation in this important sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2625	The red-green parties here in the hall want to intervene in the formation of wages in private businesses that provide services to child protection. I should probably not be surprised, because the red-greens, with SV in their head, have argued for many years that the state knows best. Anyway, I'm a little surprised that the Center Party, which is trying to define itself as a center party, is involved in this. Because it can't be a good thing for most people here in the country that the public should regulate it in detail. I actually thought that this party had more nutritional knowledge than they want to regulate private companies. It is also surprising that the Workers' Party is involved. It may not be necessary to deprive the social partners of their opportunity to negotiate wages and salaries. It is the parties themselves who know where the shoe prints and who should be able to agree on wage developments. Already today, a number of requirements are being imposed on suppliers of child protection. Most of the requirements are made to ensure the quality of the services and the stability of deliveries and compliance with the laws and regulations. The wage developments of child-restraint workers, both public and private, have been met by the requirements laid down in the regulations on pay and working conditions in public contracts and in the national collective bargaining agreements. It seems that the red-green parties believe that today's procurement contracts ignore the employees. But it's not like that. Employees are the most important factor in ensuring quality in deliveries. That is why demands are already being made. These requirements are based on quality, not on ideological desire to intervene in the formation of wages in private enterprises. There is no need to bother the private with the greatest possible administration and documentation. The socialist side has repeatedly shown ideological dissatisfaction with private service providers. The government is working to reduce red tape, to facilitate the creation of businesses and jobs, and to facilitate investment and innovation in the child protection sector – no more bureaucracy and state overarching.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2638	It is nice that the representative of the Progress Party is extra concerned with the views of the Centre Party in this matter, but I mentioned in a previous post today that the Centre Party will always work to ensure that more welfare services take place under public control. The centre party wishes to strengthen Community solutions. That's why we have the vision we have. We are also fighting for workers to have safe working conditions, including: means good working and pay conditions. That image is also about what kind of business development we want. Right, Advance Party and Left claim it would be unfortunate to ensure that compensation for salary growth is to be used for real wage growth for employees of private providers of child protection services. I totally disagree with that. We politicians have a responsibility for the proper management of taxpayers' money. Community funds shall not be used to fill the pockets of private operators but to provide and provide services to the population. It is therefore our responsibility as politicians to ensure that public funds are spent on what they are going to spend. The fact that employees of private operators do not have the same pay conditions and do not participate in general wage developments is nothing but social dumping. Are we, as the administrator of Norwegian people's money, to accept that we are involved in maintaining a system that creates a-layer and b-layer work? The Norwegian working life model is already under threat, and we need to look at this representative proposal in a wider context. A weakened working life is negative for society as a whole through increased wage differentials and lower employment and productivity growth. The EU enlargement in 2004 resulted in an offer shock in parts of the Norwegian labour market which have changed the formation of wages and prices and the functioning of the labour market and has facilitated extensive social dumping. The SV proposal is part of combating just social dumping. It is no secret that we have a government that is a contemplative adherent to market liberalism, and that has a fondness for tender systems. They are strangely unable to see the weaknesses of such a system. For tendering systems, human needs are blind. Procurement systems only see figures and profits. It is therefore not surprising that government parties choose to attack the proposers rather than act to ensure that private child protection workers receive equal pay for equal work. These are the same employees that the same parties earlier today were so very concerned about defending, but it's not about their pay. This is about services that are under public responsibility. It should only be lacking that the public should not have control and control over how the money is used. Therefore, the centre party is behind proposal No. 2, along with SV, and I'm dealing with the proposal. We also support proposal No. 1, together with SV and the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2657	The representative of Åslaug-Sem Jacobsen has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2662	Now, unfortunately, neither Supermann nor Batman really exist, but fortunately we have some other superheroes here in the world. Some of the most important real heroes we have are the heroes of the welfare state, those who provide care and warmth to those who need it, and perhaps especially the heroes of child protection, who provide protection and care for vulnerable children. SV believes that these heroes deserve stable and secure jobs, so that employees can stay over time, develop skills and provide good services for the children. Unfortunately, it is not always like that today. The heroes of child protection are not rewarded well enough for their efforts for the children. When Buffetat purchases private child protection services, there is an indexation to cover costs related to expected salary growth elsewhere in society. But this pay growth supplement is not going to pay today. On the contrary, the trustees report that the pay supplement is excluded when the enterprises assess their own economy locally. The government payroll item does not go to pay. On the contrary, it often goes to profit. For enterprises with contracts for the purchase of child protection services, where the trade union has a collective agreement, there are major challenges in implementing wage settlement in such a way that real wage growth is consistent with compensated wage growth for the employees of the enterprise. For these enterprises, about two thirds of the wage growth is locally negotiated. That's why this is important. Different criteria are used to determine the level of pay growth that businesses consider possible, regardless of whether the enterprise has been compensated for general wage growth or not. In the public sector, any local wage growth is determined by central parties. A requirement for compensation for salary growth to be used for wage growth, as we have proposed today, will be an important contribution to ensuring an approximately equal wage growth between private and public employees working on the same type of tasks — quite reasonably. The message from the Trade Union is clear. A requirement for compensation for wage growth to be used for wage growth will make it possible to have more real local negotiations. Therefore, the freedom of the social partners is supported by this proposal for a representative, contrary to what the bourgeois parties are trying to bring up the case as. It's all about giving the heroes of child protection what they deserve, so they can do an even better job for the kids. Therefore, I find it a pity that the bourgeois parties do not support this proposal, and I think it is surprising that such a simple, fair and reasonable requirement cannot be relevant, and that the bourgeois obviously are much more concerned with their market-liberalist ideology than with ensuring proper wage growth for those who work in the field of child protection. On behalf of SV, I can promise that we will continue to fight for better working conditions in child protection and anywhere else, even though the government is more concerned with defending its market ideology.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2681	In Norway, we have a long tradition of using both public and private actors in child protection. Private actors are important contributors, and I am therefore pleased that we have different actors who contribute to quality and diversity and can tailor an offer adapted to the individual child in the best possible way. Bufetat has been purchasing both foster home and institutional measures from private actors for many years. Through acquisitions, Bufetat imposes absolute quality requirements, as well as emphasis on the manning factor, competence and price. The conditions of employees are important for the quality of the services offered to children in the field of child protection. Therefore, pay and working conditions are well regulated by the Bufetat purchase agreements with its suppliers. The contracts lay down requirements applicable to all suppliers and subcontractors. These requirements require employees to have pay and working conditions resulting from the national collective agreements in force for the industry. The contracts also contain an annual price adjustment clause based on the deflator of the Ministry of Finance. Contracts are followed up by annual risk assessments carried out by Buffetat with subsequent monitoring of pay and working conditions. One of the conditions checked is whether the supplier has a pay level under the contract. Proposals want the purchase of child protection services to require the use of funds for index regulation for the growth of wages and salaries of employees. In Norway, there are traditional social partners who agree on pay and working conditions, and not the country. I believe that this principle and this practice should also apply to child protection. We should not oblige Buffetat to use contractual clauses which may conflict with the parties’ negotiated tariff agreements. I also believe that we should not impose requirements that allow more resources to go to administration, to documentation and to bureaucracy, rather than using resources to provide the child with good care, security and follow-up. I believe that today's demands and contractual clauses along with Bufetat's control procedures are more effective in monitoring employees' salary growth and the content of the offer than the proposal that is on the table for consideration today. I would also like to show that under this government, Buffetat has done several other steps that have strengthened the agency's control and control when purchasing child protection services. I'm very happy about that, and that's something we'll keep grasping. We have put in place new foster home agreements, which have given authorities more control over the content and costs of individual foster home placements, and institutional contracts are now making clearer demands on the quality and content of the supply from private providers. So I don't want to impose a claim on Bufetat, which means that child protection has to spend more resources than is necessary for administration. The resources will be used to provide children with good follow-up and high-quality measures, and I am therefore pleased that the majority of the Committee does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2703	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2708	It is a pleasure to hear that the government is occasionally concerned with bureaucracy – it is only a pity that they are concerned about it in the wrong way. The fact that the Labour Party and the left-hand side intervene in the parties' negotiations is to turn the matter upside down. This is to follow up precisely what the parties have negotiated. The government often boasts of the importance of tripartite cooperation, and it is really challenged in this matter. The parties negotiate salary changes centrally and agree on a locally distributed pot. This compensates for it. So some local employers spend this compensated money on things other than wages. Does the Minister think that it is a good example of tripartite cooperation that money to pay goes to other things, when it is negotiated by the parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2717	I believe that the annual checks on the pay and working conditions carried out by Bufetat, at the same time as the requirements and contractual clauses that Bufetat has, are a more effective way to follow up the salary growth of employees than the proposals from the left-hand side that are on the table here. I believe that these proposals are unnecessary. They appear to be bureaucratic and less targeted, and I think they are breaking the principles of how pay is set in Norway. I also think it is unfortunate that child protection should have its own special regulation that we do not have in any other establishment. I believe we should have confidence that Bufetat, with the legislation and the control procedures that they have, is able to take good care of the employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2724	SV believes that the pay bag should be paid. That's what this case is about. When the public buys private child protection services and grants funds for compensation for salary growth, but these funds do not go into wage growth, it is right and reasonable to include this in the agreements, we believe. But this is what government parties choose not to support. They say that the working conditions are well regulated as they are, but at the same time they say that we cannot regulate exactly this. Does the Council of State think it is right that funds granted for compensation for wage growth do not go to child protection pay growth?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2731	I want to repeat what I have said earlier: I think we have a good arrangement for how Buffetat follows up the employees and their salary growth in a good way. In Norway, we have the tradition that there are social partners who agree on pay and working conditions in the businesses, it is not the state that should do so. I think it's special that it should not apply to child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2736	The Council of State repeats a claim here several times and pushes the social partners and their freedom to negotiate in front of them, but the clear message we get from the social partners is that the compensation for wage growth is kept out of local negotiations, and thus the local negotiations do not become real. The trade union shall report, inter alia: that this proposal for a representative will make the possibility of a real debate locally stronger. Nevertheless, the Council of State repeats its claim several times without responding to the clear message from the Trade Union, so I give the Council of State a last chance to just respond to that challenge: how can one continue to argue that this will weaken the possibilities of negotiations, when, on the contrary, it will strengthen them?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2741	I want to repeat, once again, that I think we have a very good system today, and that today's demands and contractual clauses, along with Bufatat's control procedures, are a good way to do this. I believe that in this way it is more effective to follow up the salary growth of employees and the content of that offer, than what SV's proposal will be able to do, especially if you are also concerned about using resources on those who are most important, for whom child protection is available, namely the children. Using resources to follow-up and provide them with a high-quality offering, rather than more bureaucracy and more system work, is the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2746	SV believes that giving children's protection employees good working conditions, so they can continue to work where they are, develop their skills and provide even better services, is just one of the things we should spend the money on. But once again, the clear message from workplaces around the world is that the means given for wage growth compensation are not going to pay growth compensation. On the contrary, this often goes to completely different things, and then I don't think about the offer to the children. So I have to repeat my question, which has not yet been answered, because the message we get from the workplace is that this proposal will strengthen the real, local wage negotiations, and not weaken them, as the Council of State and other representatives of the government parties have claimed repeatedly from this pulpit. How can it hang on to handles?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2753	Then I have to repeat myself once again. I believe that the system we have today is good, that Bufetat carries out annual checks on the pay and working conditions of the suppliers. I believe that the checks made on the basis of a risk assessment contribute to ensuring the salary growth of employees and the content of the better than the proposal put on the table by SV. I believe that it also provides the necessary knowledge of the compliance of suppliers with the pay and working conditions, more than what is being proposed today by the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2758	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2775	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2795	A total of 24 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1-4, by Tellef Inge Mørland on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 5 and 6, by Tellef Inge Mørland on behalf of the Labour Party and the Centre Party proposed no. 7-10, by Tellef Inge Mørland on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 11 and 12, from Kjersti Top on behalf of the Party of Central and Socialist Left Party proposed no. 13-19, by Nicholas Wilkinson on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 20-23, from Per Espen Stoknes on behalf of the Green Party proposal No 24, from Kjersti Top on behalf of the Center Party Proposal No. 20 and 21, from the Green Environment Party. Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asking, in a transfer of responsibility for drug users from the justice sector to healthcare, to step up work to: -reduce waiting time in care and avoid interruptions in treatment, by facilitating a wider range of services and ensuring a good financial framework. -establish a stronger healthcare provision for drug users and heavy dependence in larger cities, by ensuring that health and social workers are available in public spaces. -establish user rooms in the larger cities, with access to qualified health professionals. -provide free long-term prevention of drug use, as well as good information on drug use and pregnancy. - establish close cooperation between treatment providers, interest groups involved in detoxification, community health services and Nav, to provide good information on drugs and drugs, with the aim of contributing to the reduction of drug use and abuse, crime and adverse effects. -priority measures for children and young people who are related or self-dependent. -create good cooperation between schools and the health sector, in order to ensure good information on drugs, drugs and availability among young people. - to facilitate support for information and anti-drug addiction activities by stakeholder organisations with different approaches to drug care. -replace criteria-based systems for awarding different forms of drug treatment with a comprehensive and flexible medical assessment by qualified therapists.» Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to extend the mandate of the Committee on Drug Reform to assess also the regulated movement of illicit drugs at present, in order to ensure optimal reform for users.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2870	Proposal No. 22, from the Environment Party Dei Green. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to extend the drug reform committee to include more users’ voices, including current users, in order to ensure their best interests.’ Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2885	Proposal No. 23, from the Environmental Party of Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to evaluate the use of drug contracts’. The Socialist Left and Red have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2900	Proposal No. 18 and 19, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to facilitate drug users to test the purity and content of the drug and to ensure that the purchase and use of equipment that allows such testing does not lead to police reporting.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government is asked to come back with proposals for a pilot scheme with a publicly funded drug testing service.’ The Greens have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2924	Proposal No. 13-17, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asked to change the mandate of the Committee on Drug Reform by incorporating these three overall objectives of the drug reform: – Reduce suffering and death — More comprehensive assistance for people who are struggling – Prevention of drug dependence’» Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to amend the mandate of the Committee on Drug Reform, so that the deadline for the submission of the inquiry to the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Ministry of Justice and Defence will be 31 January 2019. The size asks the government to propose any increased appropriations needed to ensure a faster and more efficient implementation of the work of the sample.» Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to propose the necessary changes in order to simplify, until a comprehensive system of decriminalisation is clear, drug issues relating to use, purchase and possession for its own use, which is currently being penalised by common practice.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asking to return to the Stortinget in the autumn of 2018 with a case to ensure that drug users are prosecuted for minor drug offences when they contact the authorities for help to themselves or others — a so-called ‘Good Samaritan Law’.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to extend the programme for medically assisted rehabilitation in the draft government budget for 2019. [[LAR]] The government is asking the government to propose to transfer more funds to the municipalities so that they can facilitate treatment more for each individual and extend the range of medicinal products to the treatment where it is needed.» The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2975	Proposal No. 11 and 12, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government to introduce exemptions from the abstinence of health care for those with severe drug dependence in the implementation of a drug reform.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to lower the requirement to cover long-term drug treatment institutions and to increase funding accordingly. The aim is to ensure treatment for more and shorter waiting lists.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e2999	Proposal No. 7-10, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to evaluate the drug reform on an ongoing basis in the first years with a view to constantly improving the reform of further harm reduction and less drug dependence.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that medical and research-based assessments are based on the types of drugs and treatments used in health care for drug addicts. The government is asking for a wider range of treatment options to be provided in medically assisted rehabilitation. [[LAR]] Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for changes to the drug injection facility law [[Spray Room Act]] – the law changes the name from the law on the system of drug injection facilities to the law on the system of drug-injection facilities, [[Spray Room Act]] [[user room law]] – opening for more than one route of administration than injection, – it opens up the possibility for substances other than heroin to be consumed, based on an assessment of the target group of the action and the substances they use – it should be assessed whether this should be printed as a separate proposal, cf. that this is regulated by a regulation; – it is open to make other changes to the law as a result of the above points and as a result of experience gained with the spray room system since 2004.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a change in the spray room regulation to apply to drugs other than heroin.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e3052	Proposal No. 5 and 6 from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking — pending the public inquiry — to ensure that offers of drug contracts are strengthened and become a good offer in all municipalities.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The budget asks the government – pending the public inquiry – to ensure that the provision of a drug-using contract/adolescent contract is extended to 23 years’.’ Red has already given its support to the proposals. The Socialist Left has already received subsidized support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e3076	Proposal No. 1-4, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking — pending the public inquiry — to ensure that the fines and fines for its own use of drugs are reduced to a minimum.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking — pending the public inquiry — to strengthen the provision of follow-up, health care and treatment for those who commit drug law offences and to ensure that alternative responses are used to a far greater extent in cases where appropriate, regardless of age.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to propose changes to the IDU Act and the IDU Regulation to allow for the inhalation of heroin in today’s injection rooms.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that current injection rooms are actively used to intensify disease prevention and treatment, and in particular to ensure the prevention and diagnosis of hepatitis C.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e3110	Proposal No. Twenty-four, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to evaluate the LAR scheme and to promote measures to ensure the content, quality and improvements of the scheme, so that LAR can function optimally.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e3127	Proposal No. 24, which was agreed in the previous vote, you will be replaced in the recommendation of the Committee, and you will therefore be removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e3133	The Committee had recommended that the Storting should do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e3149	Right, the Progress Party and the Left have notified that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e3165	A total of two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1 and 2, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that a new national overdose strategy contains a separate action plan and that the strategy will apply from 1 January 2019 and be revised every four years.’; Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that new target groups are incorporated into new national overdose strategy. The new measures of the strategy must reflect the diversity of the risk group and be adapted to the different prevention and follow-up needs.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e3208	Right, the Progress Party and the Left have notified that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e3224	A total of two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Kjersti Top on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Kjersti Top on behalf of the Center Party Proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the promotion of a new quality and patient safety report in the future healthcare system, based on evaluations of actions in the Report. St. 10 Good quality – safe services and the annual quality and patient safety notifications promoted since 2014.’ [[2012-2013]] Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e3250	Proposal No. 1, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for an improvement in the annual quality and patient safety messages with a clear measure/action element so that the messages are more policy-leading and can provide actual improvements to the quality and patient safety work.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e3283	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1 and 2, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 3–5, from Ingvild Kjerkol on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 6, from Kjersti Top on behalf of the Center Party Proposal No. 4 and 5 from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to investigate whether public and, where appropriate, private hospitals should provide compensation for patients buying expensive private health services as a result of a lack of information on the possibility of treatment through publicly funded schemes.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to cooperate with the consumer authorities in designing mechanisms to ensure that patients are well informed about the possibilities, limitations and alternatives of any own purchase of private health care, insurance and the like.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e3319	Proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that health professionals employed in public hospitals do not have private bee jobs targeting the same type of treatment for the same patients in which the department in which they are employed provides. At the same time, in cooperation with the employee organisations, better use should be made of the work capacity of public hospitals in cases where key personnel wish to work more than the current organisation permits.’;» The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e3336	Proposal No. 6 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that health professionals employed in public hospitals do not have bee jobs in private practices targeting the same subject area.’ Red is in favour of the proposal. The Socialist Left has already received subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e3353	Proposal No. 1 and 2, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked, at the latest in the context of the State budget for 2019, to provide an overview of the scope of potential involvement of both public health staff and private actors who either have an agreement with the public or an authorised provider through a free choice of treatment. This applies in particular to employment, ownership or corporate governance in competing activities.’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that agreements between public, regional health establishments and private providers are designed in such a way that there is no financial incentive for private operators to allow full-paying patients to go ahead of publicly funded patients. As a general rule, agreements should be concluded in such a way that, during the contractual period, the private operator fully prioritises the publicly funded patients. The approval of operators under free choice of treatment must be based on the same leads.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e3384	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e3396	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e3401	Were there any more answers to the error(s)? - Then we'll resume voting. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e3419	A total of four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1-3, by Nicholas Wilkinson on behalf of the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No 4, by Oluk V. Bollestad on behalf of the Center Party and the Christian People's Party Proposal No. 4, from the Center Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that local health and care services are supervised by the county council in order to ensure that the right to free religious practice is respected in a professionally sound manner.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e3443	Proposal No. 1, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to ensure that everyone receiving health and care services is granted their right to engage in discussions on existing issues and to practice their beliefs or outlook on life.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e3467	Alternatively, between the recommendation of the Committee and the proposal No. 2 and 3 from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide health and care professionals with the necessary training so that they are able to meet both the spiritual needs of the recipient and to facilitate the individual’s freedom of belief and outlook. Interactions with the religious and life-seeing communities must be part of the training.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that health and social education provide candidates with the necessary knowledge of religion and belief and outlook on life, so that candidates are able to facilitate the freedom of belief and belief. Knowledge of interactions between health and care institutions and belief and life- views must be part of the learning outcomes.’;» The Greens have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e3495	During the debate, Siv Henriette Jacobsen presented a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the government to propose that «entity» be included in the Public Health Act § 7.» Alternatively, this proposal and the recommendation of the Committee shall be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e3512	The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e3528	A total of two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Tuva Moflag on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 2, from Nicholas Wilkinson on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that there is sufficient capacity in relevant vocational school education and to provide continuing training in geriatrics for health professionals, ergot therapists, physiotherapists and porters.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e3554	Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to develop a strategy for general health care for the elderly, which also includes services in the specialist health service.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e3601	Right, the Progress Party and the Left have notified that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e3633	A total of four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Kari Henriksen on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, by Kari Henriksen on behalf of the Labour Party, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party proposed no. 3 and 4, from Freddy André Supreme Court on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 4, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to take the necessary measures to ensure that employees in public child protection do not have commercial interests and the possibility of a mix of roles and to inform the size of future budget proposals of actions undertaken or planned.’;» Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e3662	Proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to set up a public body to examine the dual roles of municipal child protection where child protection employees also have roles in private child protection actors who sell or have sold child protection services to the public and what impact this may have had, and to assess whether the applicable law is sufficient, how this is complied with and further assess the need for strengthening the law.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e3679	Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to identify the scope of double roles in recent years and the impact this may have had on services, and to promote the necessary proposals towards the Stortinget to ensure that public child protection employees do not have commercial interests and the possibility of a mix of roles.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e3696	Proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to strengthen its knowledge of the rules on stability and to raise awareness among public sector employers and employees of the dual role.» The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal. The Socialist Left has already received subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e3720	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e3737	A total of four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1-4, from Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up and implement a new national action plan against racism and discrimination.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure a good and broad representation of civil society in the preparation of the National Action Plan against Racism and Discrimination.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to emphasise intersectionality as well as concrete and feasible measures in the new National Action Plan against Racism and Discrimination.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the action plan against racism and discrimination is evaluated along the way by external evaluators.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e3791	A total of two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Kari Henriksen on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 2, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size of the government’s operating contracts with providers of child protection services requires that funds provided in the form of index regulation to compensate for general wage growth should be used for the growth of employees’ wages and salaries.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e3817	Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to identify the number of private institutions that have not used index-linked wage resources for wages and salaries and to take the necessary measures in the context of the 2019 government budget to ensure that institutions follow up their index-regulated intentions: to pay employees.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e3841	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e3857	Case No. 12 is the second time that law enforcement is dealt with and is subject to law decisions 50. There is no comment suggestion. Thus, the law passed on a second time and was sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e3928	The President proposed that referral No. 416 will be sent to the Foreign and Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e3933	President! I have a question for referral number. 416. Should it not have also been sent to the Labour and Social Committee, as those who need to appeal against decisions in damages cases relating to Nav...
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e3938	Your suggestion was that you would have it too...
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e3943	I haven't suggested it myself, but I'm going to assume that those who need to complain about decisions in claims, then will involve Nav or the State pension fund, because it's like the two bodies that...
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e3948	In that case, someone has to make a concrete proposal that referendums should be sent to the Labour and Social Committee, and then we have to discuss whether or not to do so. Mr Andersen has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e3955	The proposal is about restoring a complaint mechanism in an exact compensation system – restoring a previous one. It is not about systems specifically linked to Nav or others, but about a specific scheme related to this group and restoring it as it was before. I believe that this is a proper proposal for the procedure for the presidency.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e3960	Was this elucidating?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e3965	It's okay.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-24.ana.ud184e3970	That's when the record case is no. 416 sent to the Foreign and Defence Committee. Thus, today's maps are processed. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It hasn't happened. The meeting has been cancelled.
