ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e42	The representatives of Liv Kari Eskeland, Björnen Moxnes, Stefan Heggelund, Carl-Erik Grimstad and the meeting alternate Renate Silver, who has been licensed, have again taken the seat. The called alternate of the Hordaland County, Linda Monsen Merkesdal, now takes the seat. There is an application from the Workers' Group for the granted leave of the representative Else-May Botten 10-14. December is amended as sick leave from 14 December until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. Varare representative Anne Kristin Bryne is invited to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e84	Anne Kristin Bryne is present and will take the seat. Before the matters on today’s map are dealt with, the President will state that today’s Storting meeting – if necessary – will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16 until the current map has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e104	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the debate will be divided into two sections, so that the budget chapters of the Ministry of Justice and Defence and the Ministry of Knowledge will first be examined: immigration and integration, and then the budget chapters of the Ministry of Local Affairs and the Ministry of Modernisation and the Ministry of Finance: common and minority policies, public administration, privacy, and housing policy, transfer to municipalities and regional and regional policies. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that each part of the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the political groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Christian Party 5 minutes, Green Party 5 minutes and Red 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that part 1 and part 2 of the debate – within the allocated speaking time – be given the opportunity to exchange lines of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of the parties, and five lines with replies from members of the government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e121	First of all, thank you to the Committee on Good Cooperation, and a thousand thanks to the Secretary of the Committee, Marianne Bränden, for a very good work. Refugee policy is about saving lives. It is not always we discuss refugee policy as if that is what it is about, but that is what is at the heart of the matter. Norway has undertaken, through international conventions, to assume its responsibilities. In 2015, a situation arose in which the government caused the chaos to arise, reaping panic and great political gain for its intensive refugee policy. Everyone wants control at the borders and that we really shouldn't have to accept refugees at all? that no one needed to escape? But that's the situation. It's important now that the majority of the population is able to get out of the panic situation they let themselves into, and be involved in ensuring that the world can become a little better place for those who have to flee from everything. Norway has the opportunity to do a little more than we do today, and therefore SV has proposed – as the UNHCR has asked us – to accept 5,000 more quota refugees. I also want to remind you that in situations where countries close their borders, they take life, because people simply don't get out of a difficult situation. The SV also proposes that Norway show solidarity with Greece, which is one of the countries that has accepted very many asylum seekers sitting there waiting for their cases to be dealt with and not to go further. I'm sorry that the majority can't participate in these little outstretched hands of the international community in these matters. It is not in the interests of Norway’s security policy that neither Greece nor its neighbourhoods are collapsing. It is in our interest that they can also have control, and then it is important that countries such as Norway can contribute a little more. Those who come here, we have to include and make sure to beat the root, feel at home and get used to their resources. I would like to quote what the Progress Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party are behind in the position, namely that immigration is a source of diversity, new impulses and cultural exchange. That is absolutely in agreement with the SV. Getting used to their abilities for their own good, and society around them, is an advantage. For this reason, the SV has made several proposals that we need to change the introduction system and the measures for people outside the labour market, so that they can complete their skills, and that we can close the gap between what people can and what employment actually needs. I hear the council is a little on the same track, and I'm glad. But this is going too slow, because this is what we have to look at as resources. It also responds to one of the challenges facing Norway, the ageing population and the falling birth rate. That means that every person who is going to live in this country needs to take better care of and better manage to develop their resources. Human beings are resources, and we have to look at them like that. SV will also raise the rates for families living in reception. It's bad that the Red Cross has to bring in food packages at reception, and that we're told that people are starving. Now I see it's done a little bit with that in the equation, but it should just be missing. It doesn't contribute to anything good that people sit on reception and starve, so it has to end. SV also suggests that all children of kindergarten age living in reception should be allowed to go to kindergarten. They must be allowed to live a little normal child's life, and the parents then come into contact with other people. SV increases the area bet. It's been a great success? Everyone agrees on that now. We have to bet more so that we can get even faster and better development in more urban areas and areas where you can include everyone. We are strengthening the efforts of minority advisors and social control, and we are also strengthening job opportunities for women who are far from working life. I want to discuss the SV proposals in the setting,
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e142	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e149	The representative, Andersen, said something that's very true -- that we're going to take care of every human being, we're going to take care of the resources. She also said that we need to get ahead of – yes, there were several things in and of course – a better development. Is it not a great deal about having good, targeted and accurate arrangements, about the measures we are putting into action, about taking good action, and about using the funds in a good way? I would like to draw attention to a note that goes on what we call the Job Zone Part A, i.e. immigrant women, where SV – and the Center Party – say that it is ‘very unfortunate that the government has excluded from this measure those who receive social assistance’. But is this not just about targeting, that those who are inside this measure are those who have the most difficulty, who have the longest way to get to work? Should we not just target the measures against them? The others already have a system.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e156	No, SV believes that this measure should be addressed to all women in a difficult situation. If you go to social assistance, you're in trouble. What we also know, is that some places work well with this, some places don't work very well. The job balance is a very systematized approach to this, where you might even go home to people, because it can be that someone has some attitudes that are such that the women in the family are not going to work, that it's not considered as good. That's also how you can give these women a network, where they come into action where you can step-by-step enter Norwegian society. So this delimitation is completely wrong, for people on social welfare are not a resource-powerful group that has an innumerable amount of measures ahead of it. For this particular group of women, systematic work should be done according to the methodology of the job, which is established for those who are most remote from the workplace.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e165	But targeting measures is not expanding it to everyone. I agree that those who receive social assistance are not a strong group, but if you receive social assistance, you are inside a system that looks after several aspects of getting into work. The group against which this scheme is targeted are those who do not receive social assistance. It's the ones that really have the most difficulty, the ones that maybe have the worst starting point in education -- the ones that we get the pictures of in our heads when we talk about women struggling with Norwegian society. Will it not be a more effective and targeted use of the funds to concentrate on that group and ensure that that group is better placed in Norwegian society?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e172	First, it sounds to the representative Thommess as if everyone's on social assistance. There is a small proportion of the population in social assistance. It's not to unfold to everyone. The second is that SV does not exclude the group that the government has within its action, but we believe that more people can benefit from this measure, because we see that it works. Then it's more important for us to spend some more money on just such good measures, so that people who stand so far away from work get an opportunity to get in, get a maritime life and get freedom in their lives. I just record that the Right chooses to spend billions of dollars on healthy people who have work and wealth – to say it like that – in order. Then you don't talk about choosing good measures, so it's just to wash out, but here you have to be greedy and narrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e181	Representative Andersen said in his speech that refugee policy is about saving lives. I fully agree with that. That is why the Progress Party has repeatedly called for us to stop spending so much money on receiving a few to Norway, and rather spend the great money on helping far more people in areas close to war and conflict. That is why we have also called for a policy that is now being implemented in the Mediterranean, where we close the routes and turn the boats around. It saves thousands of lives a year. In Norway, SV is constantly on the road to address the possibility of residence of groundless asylum seekers. They want to reduce the efforts to detect asylumism and talk all the time to those who do not need help. Then my question is: is it that SV wants to appear as the leading speaker for groundless asylum seekers and others who cheat on staying in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e188	This article is so full of untruths that it is almost not worth answering. I record that the Progress Party has succeeded quite well with its rhetoric of frightening that this is what this is all about, but it does not. There are closed borders that take life. It's that people can't get out in a legal and good way when life is threatened, that takes life. I record that there are 10,000–15 000 people drowning in the Mediterranean and that the Progress Party's response to that is that they should be sent back to, for example. Libya, where Doctors Without Borders report that you are sent right back to human trafficking and slavery – and to be sold again. The world is not as simple as the Advance Party wants it to be. What we are talking about is that Norway should take a little more responsibility, and that the asylum process we have here in Norway must be so good that we can identify who should have asylum – and only those who should stay in Norway. Everyone in this room agrees.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e197	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e203	Migration, together with the climate challenges, is one of the most important and difficult challenges facing us today. It's a challenge we have to solve together with each other and together with the world. I notice that this has begun to sink into large parts of political Norway. To date, only the Workers' Party has gone thoroughly through all immigration and integration policies and presented a real solution on how to achieve a more equitable and sustainable asylum system with more assistance and assistance to beneficiary countries, with a good balance between immigration and integration and between predictability and control. Our goal is for people to be integrated from day one. Our starting point is that those who are going to live in Norway will also become part of Norway. This is what social democratic integration is all about. We need to protect the right of asylum. At the same time, we see today's asylum policy as inhuman, unfair and unsustainable. Inhuman is because it requires cynical human traffickers. The death route across the Mediterranean is a route where 2,160 people have died only this year, and where assault on women and children is common. It's unfair because you can afford it, you can pay smugglers – if you can't afford it, you'll be where the vast majority of the 25 million people who are recognised as refugees are, in the recipient countries and in the neighbourhoods. These are people we don't see, but they're in these areas under very bad conditions – without future hopes and opportunities. And it's not sustainable. For every dollar rich country spends in the neighbourhoods, they spend the corresponding $135 in the rich host country. It is a recognition for a high-cost country like Norway, regardless of the debate on how many we are going to accept here at home, that we will never be able to defend what the same resources would have meant if we had stood up in the neighbourhoods, where we could help considerably more refugees in the world. So asylum policy is not sustainable. In Europe today, the institution of asylum is at the juncture of the migration crisis. In Africa, we see a huge population growth in combination with something that is joyous, and it's economic growth, but that combination means that many people will afford to pay smugglers to get to Europe. It will be economic immigrants, those who are not entitled to protection. What's going to happen? Well, what we also saw in 2015 is that many countries are withdrawing aid budgets and deprioritising quota refugees to deal with returns. There is a low number of asylum arrivals today due to the Turkey Agreement and internal border control in Schengen. It is at these times that a new policy needs to be developed, not when a new migration crisis is a fact. The policy presented by the Committee on Migration in the Workers' Party is about solidarity with the refugees, about dealing with the beneficiary countries by giving refugees the opportunity to support themselves. The new policy creates hope for the future – a policy that prioritises more quota refugees because people have to get through the UN's safe and fair cooling system. If we are to achieve such a conversion, we must cooperate internationally. It is also about ensuring control, control and predictable immigration – that we do not accept more than we can actually integrate. Norway’s immigration policy shall be determined by Norway. The fact that Norway does something better than other countries when it comes to integration is no wonder. Norway is a good country to live in. This is thanks to the Norwegian and social-democratic welfare model, which means that Norway has lower unemployment and a much better organised working life than most other countries in Europe. At the same time, we must be honest – because few support themselves. Only 61 pst. by those conducting introductory courses, proceed to work or training. Some hours of work a week is considered to be positive numbers. The employment of some immigrant women is too low. Many have poor housing conditions, and poverty is inherited. Child poverty has increased significantly in a short time. Often, there are many children, and only one adult is working in the family — often in immigrant families where women are at home and not in the workplace. The fight against negative social control has been given many courageous voices, such as Shabana in the Born Free Foundation, but too many people are overburdened to fight negative social control, too many feel hot. The working party will be properly integrated from day one. We have an offensive commitment to integration into our alternative state budget – integration from before day one. Allowances refugees must have intensive courses in democracy and equality, Norwegian working life, Norwegian education before coming to Norway, and a thorough assessment of their competence must be carried out. In order to ensure the quality, NOCUT shall monitor the competence so that we can match the competence of the refugee with the appropriate municipality. I have visited all the counties in our wonderful country, but there are great differences in the quality of the integration work. We have to end with randomness and bet on quality. This is why the Workers' Party wants to reform the settlement policy. Refugees are to be settled in the municipality where there is the greatest chance of getting into the world of work – today there is a game of chance. We have to demand that people learn Norwegian and stand on their own feet, but then we also have to demand that municipalities know what kind of labour market they have, that they cooperate with industry and educational institutions, that they have access to language practice places, children's playgrounds and partnership agreements with volunteering, to mention some requirements. We need to bet on industry Norwegian and labour Norwegian as part of the intro course, that people from day one work with the Norwegian language, relevant language practices, relevant work practices, professional letters and association with the labour market, where they can support themselves. Equally important as qualification is to include newcomers in strong communities. Then we have to stop housing them in areas with major living conditions challenges – that means in those areas where there are major social differences, high unemployment, and how many cannot Norwegian. It is not good for these areas, which need an area pledge, which the Workers' Party adds, so poverty does not inherit in these areas. But it is also not good when new refugees are going to learn Norwegian and get quickly into a working life, to come to these areas. This also means that the government's assumption that municipalities with less than 5000 inhabitants should not settle for refugees must be removed. Small places succeed better with integration – greeting one who has grown up in the village! Voluntaryness is the back margin of Norwegian society. If you want to understand Norway, you also need to understand volunteering. Voluntaryness is one of our best inclusion venues. So we're going to take 10 million. kr to voluntary teams and organisations, which will receive language places of practice. We strengthen the teams and organisations working in the fight against negative social control, and we suggest that all county councils have advisers who can coordinate the fight against negative social control with all public actors. If you live in Norway, you will also be part of Norway. You must accept freedom, democracy and equality. Everyone must be able to live an independent and free life.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e237	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e242	It is gratifying that the Workers' Party is now presenting a policy in the field of immigration and integration so close to the government's policy that it can create a majority behind the immigration policy of the government on behalf of this house. But my question to the representative Gharahkhani has its background in a concern about the policy that one finds in part of the other parties on the left, in particular Red, the Green and SV Environmental Party. Can the representative of Gharahkhani guarantee that the current line of the Labour Party will also be stuck in possible cooperation with the other left-wing parties, which have a much more liberal immigration policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e249	Historically, once the Workers' Party has managed the country, it is the Labour Party's immigration policy that has been implemented. We have gone through it thoroughly and put forward a whole new policy that provides predictability, justice and that we can achieve proper integration from day one. What worries me is that with today's government there is complete chaos about what kind of immigration policy we get. After the Workers' Party presented our policy, the Progress Party first said that this was today's policy. So left said this was too strict, they couldn't support it. The right was of the opinion that this could be adopted at the Court’s national meeting. Now the Christian People's Party is also going to enter the heat, so it's going to be interesting to see how the parties that cannot agree on two bottles of wine are going to manage the country with an immigration policy that is predictable, fair and long-term.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e256	The representative of Gharahkhani said that the Workers' Party is the only party that has created and put forward a comprehensive new immigration and integration policy. More errors than that, I guess it's hard to take. This has been the concern of others, and especially the Progress Party, for years, and it was high time that the Workers' Party too began to think about the real issues of both immigration and integration policy. But what's strange is that when the Workers' Party presented its action against social control, there were 22 points of which they all, most of them were already introduced. When they presented a new immigration policy, there was a true copy of government and the Progress Party's policy, and when they presented their integration policy, all the measures that the government has been talking about were also. Then I wonder, is it such that the Labour Party thinks the government's policy is so good that it deserves to be promoted twice?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e263	I recorded the discussions we had in the Chamber yesterday, where the Progress Party has had its hand on the steering wheel of immigration policy, has participated in the United Nations migration agreement, and after the government has blessed it, the Progress Party is suddenly opposed and dragging the matter into the Storting for an explanation. The Progress Party said yesterday that that policy will ensure that Norway no longer has control of Norwegian immigration policy, that the government will have to ensure more social security exports, and that the government loses control of sovereignty. Then I have to ask the question: If it is so serious, why has the Advance Party not chosen to withdraw from today's government?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e268	There are major challenges to both refugees and migration in the world, as the representative said. It has taken us a hundred years and two world wars to build up the small web of civilization that the UN Conventions on Human Rights and the right to seek asylum are. That's why we in SV were shocked to see that the Workers' Party and the rest of the Stortinge, except for the Greens' Environment Party, participated in giving a government with the Progress Party at the head to renegotiate these conventions, in the midst of a crisis in which there was not a single country in the world that would strengthen the rights of refugees, or look at, for example. the rights of climate refugees. Can we now trust that the Workers' Party has left the panic and will stand by the international commitments?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e275	I can reassure the SV that the Workers' Party and the SV share the same policy that we should show solidarity. But the Workers' Party is concerned that we should have predictability in terms of immigration, and that we do not accept more than we can integrate. We've done a lot of work on the solutions we've presented. We have clearly said that it means fewer asylum seekers, but it is to give priority to more quota refugees, because it is the fairest way to accept refugees in the world. The solutions we have presented mean that we don't have to change the international conventions, so we're not going to support it, no.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e280	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e285	Unfortunately, refugee issues are today a negative driving force in world policy. In the wake of wars and social distress, millions of people are in operation. Many countries are tightening legislation and border control, foreign policy becomes domestic policy, and established political constellations are being challenged. Brexit and the government crisis in Sweden are examples of this. So, after several wings in immigration policy, the Labour Party landed on the tighter line that came after the refugee crisis in 2015, where the government got the Stortinget on a deal. The agreement is in place, and today an overwhelming majority are ending up on this line of immigration policy. There should be a strict and fair policy, a policy that allows us to control how many we can accept, but we should also provide help to those who really need it – at home and outside – as far as we can. But although we in our country have the situation under control, the underlying international issues are not solved, and all contributions to political cooperation and well-functioning international legal order must therefore be welcomed. The most important capital in any society is the people who live there. Tomorrow’s winners will therefore become the countries that are able to make effective use of their resources. Culture is created where cultures meet, be it in cultural life as such or in science or business. Creative meetings are important for all sectors of society. But if we are to succeed, we demand that we be able to be an inclusive, tolerant society that grows on diversity, not just a geographical area where people with different backgrounds live side by side. The government's integration strategy, presented a few weeks ago, makes the necessary and clear action that is also followed up in the budget. The government set out a course that follows well-known ideas of right-wing policy, and that is to take individual human beings, value and build on competences, make the path to work as short as possible, safeguard individual social freedom and legal certainty, and stimulate civil society to work to create good arenas to find its place in our community. Through a wide range of items, the budget builds up under the course of the strategy and its main priorities. If you go to work, the first challenge will usually be to learn Norwegian. Clear objectives of reviewing Norwegian education in the introduction programme are supported by 16 million. to strengthen the competence of teachers. The aim is to receive Norwegian training that is more targeted and better adapted to the individual student’s needs. Seeing the individual is here, as in so many other contexts of integration policy, a key to success. Level of education, origin and personal characteristics vary from one person to another. Language training must take this into account. The success criterion can't be the number of hours, but what you can actually do. But the way into work also needs to be simpler and shorter. The budget strengthens the arrangements within the framework of Jobjesen, mentoring and training schemes, Competence plus schemes, etc. A more targeted training and better competence in the organisation apparatus should also contribute to lower the threshold of private sector employment. Unfortunately, many with a foreign name still experience being sorted out of the candidate bases. This should be challenged by the private sector – because it is the day when businesses show the way that good integration will seriously show results. The NHO is working on the matter, but at the end of the day this probably reflects the general attitudes that prevail among very many Nordics. If we're going to become a society that really gives room for participation, we also have to become more open and inclusive. The voluntary organisations play a central role here. The strengthening of the budget for urban territorial action, cultural action and action against child poverty is central here. A secure framework for life is also a necessary prerequisite for a good life. This shall be a matter of course for all, regardless of their membership, in a State of law such as the Norwegian State. Measures against social control and abuse are strengthened in the budget, and efforts to overcome culturally conditional social control must go further. Here too, voluntary organisations play an important role. We must succeed in strengthening integration. If we're wrong, we're wrong. If not, we have a lot to win.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e308	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e314	The government’s integration strategy emphasises the need for more people to be better provided with formal education and qualifications so that they can get into work and contribute to the needs of society for labour. The government further points out that the main challenges of integration policy are that for many immigrants, especially women, there is a lack of employment and that the government’s integration strategy places a great deal of emphasis on labour-oriented measures for women. Fagre words look nice on the paper, but they don't mean much when it doesn't follow the money with the bets. Then it'll be easy to see the strategy as an airlock. How can it be that the Right does not support our skills reform, which will provide a significant level of qualification for those who are outside the labour market and those who have jobs but are at risk of falling out?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e321	The government has presented an integration strategy, and we support it. It takes a holistic approach to how we should take care of and build on the competences of our new citizens. There will be more promises in the budget that follow up on this. Maybe the most important thing here, when it comes to the problem, is the review we're going to have of the introduction program, given the language training you get there. Focusing on better qualified teachers and more targeted language training is addressing a system error — it is a system improvement. Maybe that's just what's important: looking at the systems. You can't always just resort to increased appropriations every time you do something.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e328	The representative Thommessen was in many areas of his post without going deep. Many of the names used by the representative, Thommessen, can be agreed on, but the problem arises when you start going into the depths of the draft budget, which is supported by the representative Thommessen. The representative Thommessen stated that language is an important prerequisite for participation in society. Then I find reason to note the paradox that the government in the previous round cut in Norwegian training, and that the compulsory course should now be introduced in Norwegian values and culture at the same receptions. What I'm asking you is whether Thommessen sees irony in that you've reduced on one side and then increased on the other side, while you can see that the proportion that learns Norwegian in reception has fallen dramatically in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e337	It is true that there is reason to take up language training. That's why the government and we're doing just that. Having a language training that is not suspended for the number of hours, but more is to be measured by what you actually learn from Norwegian, is about correcting an important system weakness from which we have inherited, among other things. the red-green government. Much of the integration work we're working on today is something that has been in force for a very long time, and that the red-greens have been behind. There was a need to take a real roof. We see that even though Norwegian integration policy has done a lot of good, there are also weaknesses in how many people come to work, how many actually learn Norwegian, etc. So the steps taken by the integration strategy are the most necessary, and many items will be found in the budget that follow them up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e344	I miss that representatives of the Right take on a role as humanitarian chieftains, as you were before, and that you dare to talk about freedom and dare to defeat conspiracy theories that now reign in the refugee debate. SV was not on the deal, and there were two reasons for that. One was to make proposals that prevented integration. The second was the point of renegotiating international agreements, which is the fragile web of civilization that it has taken us a hundred years and two world wars to build up. I hope that the Right now has come out of that panic, but I am not sure. With regard to those issues that hamper integration, several of those issues have now become the main policy of government, namely to prevent family reunification. That's what you see that you have to limit. Then is my question to the representative Thommess: Would he have been safer, had the opportunity to root and learn foreign languages and felt at home if he had not been with and had security for his immediate family?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e355	There are many paradoxes in the refugee problem. It is an area where people have difficulty in many areas. Being a fugitive is about bedtime, it's about demanding lives. I think we should agree on that. Then it's also sadly so that we have to have a control over how many people we let in. We have to have a starting point that allows us to be able to take care of the ones we have in a good way. It's clear that you might have wanted, because the individual people it's about, that you had a more liberal input into this, but the reality is that we have to have systems that make us control how many people we're actually letting in. That is also the reason for the legislation we have regarding the question by Mr Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e362	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e367	There has been a challenging period in terms of immigration and integration policy in Norway in recent years. Since 2015, the government's work has really been put to the test, but it is very happy to be able to stand here today and say that the government has actually passed that test. Work has been systematically and targeted with both short-term and long-term mitigation measures that have been absolutely necessary. It is also gratifying to see that the government has done so well with its policy that when the Workers' Party is going to make its own policy, they also end up with the government's decisions. Then it is that the Progress Party would like to have reduced the number of quota refugees because in recent years we have received so many quota refugees and asylum seekers in total that they should have slowed down. But then there's also the total number of arrivals that count, and the total number of arrivals of asylum seekers, quota refugees and family reunions of these goes down. The forecasts for 2018 appear to be the lowest since 2006 and still appear to be declining. Then the government's policy has worked, and even if we accept a few more quota refugees than the Progress Party would ideally wish, there is still a turn towards the policy of the Progress Party, because by reducing the number of groundless asylum seekers who do not have the same need, we are able to turn the funds over to those who need more help, namely quota refugees. This is a compromise with which the Progress Party lives well. It is also important to continue to strengthen the work of detecting ID yokes, both during the arrival and application process, and also to address those who have managed to obtain an incorrect residence permit in Norway due to fraud. We have to give the clear signal that jux shouldn't pay off. It's at the expense of those who need protection. This government has also succeeded in moving faster than we accept. While the previous government had to assess coercive measures against municipalities in order to settle, there is now a competition among municipalities to settle. Now we are demanding more stringent requirements both for municipalities to achieve results and for residents to integrate. We just have to stop counting the number of hours of training you get, and start measuring acquired competence. Not everyone needs the same number of Norwegian hours to get good. On them, we can use the resources on other things they need. It is a turn of policy towards the Progress Party. We want more targeted, individualisation of training. We want to start earlier with training in children's rights, in how Norwegian culture works, and also provide parental guidance. This is a policy that will benefit society, and it will also – if we succeed better with integration policy – benefit immigrants. What creates differences in Norwegian society today is a failure of integration policy, and then it is high time that it is changed. I can imagine that the Workers' Party is also very pleased that we are going to reform the introduction system, because then they will have another good plan that they can copy and present as their own. With that I will address a loose proposal on behalf of the parties Right, the Advance Party, the Left and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e382	The representative Jon Engen-Helgheim has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e389	The Progress Party says zero refugees, but the Progress Party in the Government proposes 3,000 quota refugees. The Progress Party will send asylum seekers to a deserted island in Norway; the Progress Party in the Government does not promote any proposals. The Party of Advancement says that it is in favour of Muslim religious communities. The Party of Advancement in the Government says no to demands. Right-wing populists are not concerned with solutions, they are concerned with political games, and now I have registered that the Progress Party has dropped a sample. So my question is simple: will the Progress Party propose policies that are promoted in its own government, or is it more a political game that continues to make the Progress Party irrelevant in immigration and integration policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e394	This is typically the Workers' Party's rhetoric in this matter. They do not want to discuss the real challenges, the real problems or take seriously the policy that the government has actually pursued and that it is to a large extent pure Progress Party policy. And that's the way it is, and it's about all the parties, to which I explained well in my post, that you don't become the same party even if you're in the same government – you have to make compromises. That means that the Progress Party does not get the full impact of its policy, that means that we have many solutions that go even further than the government's policy, and that's what I always think it's going to be. But if the Workers' Party has been so concerned that we are going to reduce the number of quota refugees to zero, and criticise the Advance Party for not getting in government, then it is welcome that the Workers' Party will support us in that in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e400	I had hoped that the representative of Engen-Helgheim could say something about resolving the proposal beyond just taking it up. Because it is a little special when the representative was very concerned that you should have control of who is in this country – and on that basis would have expected to have a majority in the negotiations with the Christian People's Party to spend more money on withdrawing residence permits that have been granted on the wrong basis, and extending the use of DNA tests in family matters – that the representative here now makes a proposal that says that that money should no longer be spent on it. They shall aim at strengthening specific operational expenditure in the reception of asylum and, in fact, including – at an affordable level – looking at measures for children in reception. So I would like the representative to tell us what has been the changes from the state budget, until he now submits this proposal to re-prioritize from residence permits and DNA testing to children in reception.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e405	It is not right that efforts for DNA testing have been reduced and that falsely granted residence permits have been revoked. The proposal now being promoted is based on the agreement between the government parties and the Christian People's Party, where the Christian People's Party received 6 million. to strengthen the child-care competence of the asylum chain, and the Progress Party lives well with it. But we now want to expand this use to two different items, items 1 and 21, instead of the six million being left on item 1.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e410	The representative asked for real problems, and then I'm going to take the representative to a place where it actually is. The Nobel Peace Prize has just been awarded, and one of the peace prize winners, Nadia Murad, who is a Jesuit, Christian minority, tells us how she was captured, how her family was shot, how she managed to escape, and how a German state decided to pick up more of these. What she asked us fervently when she gave her speech was: get more of these women and these who are hit. I have previously asked Minister of Justice Sylvi Listhaug of the Progress Party if we should not do so, and the answer was quite no in cash. So the question is, does the Progress Party consider these as real refugees, and is it right to pick them up? Or are they to remain where they are, where they are still in danger of life?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e415	Good refugee policy is about priorities, and it is also about realizing some realities and some limitations. Norway cannot help in all ways, and it is not possible to help everyone. But we could have helped a lot more. For the billions we spend just on housing every year, we could help a lot more of those who are not being heard today, those who are not being seen today, and the group that the representative Karin Andersen also brings up here, could get a lot better protection and get his basic needs met in a much better way if we had used the funds more in the neighbourhoods, and then we could bet on a much smaller group of those who can't get protection in the neighbourhoods. Now you try to spread the money evenly across everything, without focusing on where the money is most useful.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e420	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e425	Asylum and refugee policy is an area of engagement. It affects and not least affects our view of the world and all people's views on how we should proceed. I think it's important in the context of sometimes starting from where Norway is in a world that is increasingly troubled, and how more and more people experience trials in everyday life, which even leads to death. In view of this, we need to ensure a sustainable welfare society, a phrase that is regularly heard from politicians in the social debate, including for example. Prime Minister. It is often used in cases where we believe that a change of course is necessary to ensure the viability of the welfare state in the global world we see. One of the themes mentioned in the same breath is integration and how we're going to succeed with it. It does a lot of good, but parts of the integration policy do not do enough to ensure that those who come to us will succeed. The location of refugees and asylum seekers is determined by the central authorities and for a long time there has been too little willingness to ensure a widespread settlement. Widespread settlement should be an important measure to combat the development of parallel societies and regional challenges in the major cities and to ensure better links with the Norwegian community for individuals. The size of the municipality should not be decisive for giving a municipality the opportunity to settle refugees, as it is today. Instead of settling as many immigrants as possible in major cities and municipalities facing specific integration challenges, efforts should be made to ensure that people live throughout the country. It is gratifying to see that the government is now following the views of the Centre Party on this and has recently set out to give priority to other than the most migratory areas. The centre party believes that integration should be more characterised by local adaptations and closer cooperation with business and volunteering. That's how we can succeed in accepting more and integrating them better. By establishing the projects ‘Integrating close to people’ and ‘Integrating across Norway’, the aim of the Centre Party is to provide participants with a closer link with Norwegian social and labour life. In this way, we can ensure that immigrants are given the opportunity to become part of the community and work there, for the benefit of individuals and for society as a whole. The Central Party slogan ‘Integrate the whole country’ is a good recipe and guide on how to succeed in integration. Part of the scheme dealing with housing in the workplace will provide participants with direct work experience while obtaining language practice by speaking Norwegian at the workplace. This uses the resources of the whole community and the whole country. We want private business in particular to be stimulated to provide more practice places in the scheme. In addition, we propose to establish an application-based integration package where municipalities and non-profit institutions can apply for funds for locally adapted integration measures. This amounts to 200 million. kr. Language is, as I was about a little bit earlier, one of the keys to understanding society. That's the key to the labour market, and therefore the key to employment opportunities. A basic human need is to participate in working life, feel belonging and feel that you can contribute and not least be seen. Success in this will be integration into practice, which will be able to solve a number of the challenges that we otherwise debate in this Chamber and which we also see in the global field. Our alternative state budget prioritises an integration package of 248 million. kr, increased assistance in the vicinity of refugees by 350 million. NOK 50 million. kr more for development assistance – to mention something. The reception capacity of asylum seekers is now being adapted to a lower number of refugees in Norway. The centre party believes that we should maintain a decentralised reception structure and give priority to housing, preferably outside the press areas. Many municipalities have invested in expanding their reception capacity through the establishment of good trade unions, and have succeeded in getting integrated people who have experienced war and misery. These municipalities are now losing the agreements they have which have had a major impact on municipalities. The Central Party believes that it should in particular be committed to maintaining agreements with municipalities and non-profit actors that have undertaken reception operations and thus contribute to the integration into everyday life. On a daily basis, voluntary organisations play a key role in the integration process. Volunteering creates the good meeting places where the Nordics and immigrants can meet for joint activities across inequalities in order to become one society. We are therefore giving priority to strengthening support for voluntary work in the integration field by 5 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e453	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e458	The representative of Nordlund spent a lot of his time talking about the municipalities and receiving and integrating them. I'm going to ask him a question in that direction. It is stated in the comments of the Zenterpartie that it is believed that the Norwegian housing model is very successful and that it should be continued as it is. I would like to point out that there are quite wide variations if you look at the results in the municipalities. If you look at how many people come to work, there's a variation from 30 pst. to 70 pst. on how many new countrymen a municipality actually gets into work. We also see great variations in the results of language training and in a number of other areas. Does the representative of Nordlund think that this is an expression of ‘very successful’ and that things should be as they are?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e465	I thank you so much for the question and for talking a little bit more about these areas. Obviously, you can't go into all the elements you want when you only have 5 minutes – including for example. the major challenges out there. Let's go to what's going on here, the representative Thommessen, the local situation. It is precisely the issues that the representative addresses, which the Central Party chooses to address when we launch an integration package that goes directly to housing and working life, of 200 million. kr. This will improve the opportunities for individuals to get a job throughout the country, and thus also help us to maintain widespread housing and thus avoid building up under a development towards parallel societies and ghettoization, for which I know that the representative Thommessen is also very concerned, and which we see trends around Norway, but which fortunately have not come as far as in some other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e472	Now I didn't say anything about the small municipalities being bad municipalities. On the contrary, I think many small municipalities can be good municipalities. I have also noticed another thing, and that is that the Center Party has introduced a cut in administrative expenses in general. Of course, it's a pleasure to have a right-heart that the Senter Party will also take a tight line in terms of taxpayers' money. But I wonder how it rhymes with the desire to maintain all agreements with NPISHs and others who have taken on reception activities, and you want asylum recipients spread evenly across the country – understood, and that is probably also in line with the article, so you should not make adjustments considering that today we get a lot fewer into the system. I wonder how it rhymes with saving money in administration and bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e479	First of all, I have to say that it's not a general cut centre party that's been inserted. We have gone into the specific areas of bureaucracy and proposed to re-prioritize from bureaucracy to services close to people, which benefit the Norwegian community. As the representative Thommessen knows, the Central Party also shows that we have fewer who are coming, and that this adapts the reception structure. Something else would be alarming. What has been our criticism in the past, and as we maintain, is that when you reduce the number of receptions, the government has chosen to reduce the number of municipal and non-profit institutions, while the private have not experienced the same decline in the number of receptions they have in operation. We think that is regrettable. We thought it was originally the way to use the private ones to get away from the tops when it happened, while maintaining a basic competence in Norwegian municipalities and NPISHs just at reception. We should have done more to keep that, now that we see the arrivals going down.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e485	The centre party is now the only party that proposes that Norway accept fewer quota refugees. And it's in a situation where the refugee situation is very serious in many places in the world. Where the United Nations asks us to receive more, the Center Party says fewer. Now there is not exactly economic need in Norway, or a very difficult situation here because there are many asylum seekers. Then I wonder if the representative is aware that the reason why the United Nations is asking us to accept more refugees is more, among other things. that it becomes destabilising in the neighbourhoods – that is, dangerous for us too – and it is dangerous for individuals who are particularly persecuted, especially converts, homosexuals, lonely women, etc., who are very vulnerable in these camps. Is the representative familiar with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e490	Yes, the representative is familiar with it. That is precisely why we are increasing the efforts in the neighbourhoods of our alternative budget, because we want to contribute locally where there are more refugees, to help more. At the same time, you have to see this in its entirety. It's like all the parties on the Biggest, so far at least, have said that you have to look at the capacity to receive people and get them well integrated, against what's the challenge here in Norway. I must draw the representative's attention to reading the other posts on the Central Party budget. Then she will see that overall, the Centre Party has a strong commitment to asylum, immigration and integration, because we want to help as best as possible and locally where individuals are located.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e497	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e502	As politicians, our goal must be to make everyday life better for those who need it most at all times. That's why I want to spend some time talking about the lone minor asylum seekers and their situation. Today’s Norwegian system for the reception of lone minor asylum seekers is expensive, hampers integration and places an undue mental burden on children. We owe it to both the kids and the people who work with them to do it better. Children need to be secure frames and a safe place to be, and unfortunately this is far from the case today. We have received many reports that prove that the reception situation is not good. As many as two thirds of young people reported that they felt unsafe at reception, and Norway has been criticising both the UN Children's Committee, the UN Human Rights Committee and the UN Torture Committee for our inadequate treatment of lone minor asylum seekers. In the Netherlands, a completely different model has been chosen. Minor asylum seekers are quickly settled in a foster family with equal cultural background. The Dutch have achieved good results with their model. Few children escape or leave the place they live, the integration process starts immediately, and it has proved easier to return the children where it is relevant. Not only do we do these children a great service by changing our system. We also want to save public money. Today, many different agencies have different responsibilities in accepting children as refugees alone, while in the Netherlands, one has its own organisation that has a much more comprehensive responsibility. That is why I am proud and happy that we are now presenting this budget, because then we can say that 15 million. kr shall be allocated to a pilot project involving the rapid settlement of lone minor asylum seekers. It may not be all the world's money, but I think it could mean all the world's differences for the kids who benefit from it. Otherwise, I would like to draw attention to several other positive changes compared to when the government presented its budget earlier this autumn. It's set at 2 million. kr extra to strengthen the pediatric competence of the UDI. It's also worth $8 million. kr extra to strengthen the pediatric competence of the asylum chain in general, 1,1 million. extra to remove the ceiling for social benefits for families in reception and 5 million. to strengthen the activity of children in reception of asylum. I'm in the policy of fighting for those who need it the most. I believe that as politicians we can make a change, and I think many asylum seekers in Norway can experience that we are successful. And we must constantly strive to move on to make this more and more humane. But there's no need to rest on the laurels – if we have any laurels, it can be discussed. There will still be new battles, and in those struggles the Christian People's Party will stand first in the battle.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e517	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e522	The representative Bransdal has a great heart for those who need it most, both asylum seekers, refugees and others. It's a little different from what the government party's representatives say. For example, when Per-Willy Amundsen used July 22 to propose that Muslims should not apply for residence in Norway, or when Sylvi Listhaug filed allegations that the majority of the Stortinget put terrorist rights ahead of the security of the nation, or Jon Engen-Helgheim, who does not take it so seriously that they accuse the Prime Minister of the state, or those who when Khamshajiny Gunaratnam was elected as leader of the 17th May Committee, said that perhaps one should choose to focus on someone who was chronically Norwegian. Now that we've followed the Christian People's Party's discussions in the autumn about direction choices, I wonder, what about these statements that are compatible with the Christian People's Party's values, and that make you choose to go into government with such a party?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e529	These statements that the representative Sivertsen now makes, I think are totally irrelevant to this discussion, where we are going to discuss immigration policy and the budgetary conciliation that has been made this year. These statements must be borne by the respective representatives who have spoken them. I don't like the opinions at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e534	The Christian People's Party and the Central Party were united on the integration agreement and the asylum agreement, and now there is a new discussion on family reunification. I understand that we had some of the same position when we discussed it during the settlement negotiations. Now the Christian People's Party is on its way into government negotiations. Can the representative Bransdal say whether the Christian People's Party is satisfied with today's family reunification system or regulation? Do they, if any, wish to liberalise it, or are they willing to discuss the ideas of the Progress Party that have been promoted now, that there should be a tightening of family reunification? I have seen that we have previously agreed that this is an important element of good integration.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e539	The representative Greni quite correctly describes what has been the positions. We also know that all policy areas will be included in the investigations and the possible government negotiations that will come later, and it is quite clear what is the Christian People's Party's primary policy. That's what's described, that a human being who comes has the benefit of having a family around him. So we're going to look at how best to do it, but I can't shoot here what's going to happen in the government negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e544	First, I would like to commend the Christian People's Party on their efforts to increase the number of quota refugees in their budget. There are a lot of good measures. But with regard to the family reunification area, where the Christian People's Party wants to be the family party, there have been serious restrictions on the possibility of family reunification in Norway. For SV it is quite clear that if you are going to sit for years and be afraid that the family is not safe, not being with them, there is a violation of the right to family life, and not least it is very bad for integration. I can at least imagine myself searing – and I think the representative Bransdal would also have it this way – that if one is not safe for one’s own, then it is a little difficult to learn a new language and concentrate on turning roots and being happy in his community and in a way to be present there in full. Will this be an important matter for the Christian People's Party in the future or is it already sold?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e553	I, the undersigned, am not in any exploratory selection. We've had a broad review of the party's policy field and just recorded over a low shoe. I can't answer that, I don't have the knowledge to answer the question. But having the family around them and what is the Christian People's Party's primary policy, Andersen described in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e559	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e564	The integration promise is one of the government's main projects. The aim is for immigrants to participate more fully in working and social life. The most important thing is that more people come to work, so that they can participate, contribute and support themselves and their own. Several people have to learn Norwegian and participate in different arenas in society. Good integration is important for our economic sustainability, but also for the social sustainability of society. The government will preserve a society with opportunities for everyone, small differences, trust and cohesion. A few weeks ago, the government presented its strategy for the integration promise, with four lines of action and more than 54 concrete actions, which are already being followed up in the budget for 2019. The strategy clearly points to the path of knowledge of work and community in the Norwegian community. Lack of skills is the main challenge for many people outside the labour market. Today’s introduction programme needs to be improved if more people are to participate in the modern knowledge-intensive Norwegian working life. There is a need for more people to have formal qualifications and qualifications. We must avoid a pointless rounding of the course and rather ensure that more people can receive a letter. Education is a powerful tool for social mobility and for integration into Norwegian society. We see it particularly among children and young people with immigrant parents, who make an impressive social journey through a strong drive towards education. With Stortinget's support for the government's budget for 2019, we will be able to start a new course in integration policy. One of the most important measures is a better provision of basic training for young people with a short period of residence in Norway, who currently have high levels of school drop-out. Some refer to adult education, others to start straight in secondary education. Many people have a formal right, but no real way to implement it. Through combination classes and other offers, they receive enhanced primary education in secondary school together with peers. This has given promising results, and we therefore propose to double the allocation of these offers next year. We strengthen labour-oriented measures for women through Jobjesen Part A. We also open up cooperation with social entrepreneurs to build more bridges into the workplace. We need to rethink and release good forces to solve the integration challenges. Norwegian is the key to small and large communities in Norway. We improve the quality of Norwegian training, including: by establishing a continuing training syllabus for teachers from next year. Trials with modular training will provide many adults, including immigrants, with a better opportunity for formal education through more flexible courses. The next year, the tests will be extended to health and construction subjects. The modules may be used in the introduction system and in other qualification measures for immigrants. We must also succeed in good everyday integration. We must fight against segregation and promote communion. From next year, we will strengthen arrangements to ensure that children and young people can participate in leisure activities, regardless of the family's economy. We also strengthen housing support and other support schemes for vulnerable families. In order to strengthen the fight against negative social control and for free life, we have provided more minority advisors to assist young people and their families. I have also noticed the comments of the majority on the follow-up to the I.D. clearance program for Iraqis, and I will consider in more detail how this can be followed up in a good way, and keep Stortinget informed about the matter. It was said from the Workers' Party's Chief Spokesman that the Workers' Party will reform the settlement policy. The government has already done that. We now clearly say that there are no more immigrants in urban areas where there are more than about 30 pst. immigrants. We are also making stricter demands on the municipalities that are to receive refugees, namely that they should have good results in the introduction programme and have a labour market into which refugees and immigrants can go. It will be independent of the size of the municipality. There must be a link between housing policy and integration policy if we are to succeed, and I have good faith in the course we have now set.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e583	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e588	The majority of the Committee, the members of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, show in the vote that in the autumn of 2018 it was revealed that young men in reception in Norway are being exploited. It is prohibited under Norwegian criminal law to take advantage of any sexual exploitation. We cannot see that the government has responded well enough to the responsibility of the government to prevent this. The government must ensure that guidelines are put in place to prevent the sexual exploitation of all residents at all receptions of asylum, as well as procedures to ensure that residents are aware of the guidelines and that there is an alert system that captures unwanted sexual attention. What will the Council of State do to ensure that young men are not exploited? Is the Council of State willing to make sure that all residents know and understand what rights they have, that it is safe to warn, and not least that they have someone they can notify to whom they can rely on taking the stories they tell seriously?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e595	It is a serious and important question that the representative addresses. Sexual exploitation is unacceptable regardless of who makes it, and where it happens. Of course, you need to be informed about your rights and who you can alert to. I will make sure that we check how these questions have been followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e600	As the Council of State was in the post, lack of competence is the biggest obstacle to getting immigrants out of work. Several professional letters were one of the objectives, and of course we fully agree with that. The centre party believes that everyone should have the same opportunity to increase their competence wherever they live in the country. Today, living requirements, i.e. the requirement to live with a spouse, make a lot of people lose this opportunity. We have received several recordings during the autumn that we have been forced to finish education because the reference person does not have the opportunity to get a job at the place of study, and they are not allowed to live separately during the days of the week because the family reunite will then commute to an education. There are only exceptions to the requirement to stay in respect of reference persons working for Norwegian interests abroad. Would it not be natural that an exemption could also be granted for a limited period of time for those who would qualify for the Norwegian labour market?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e607	We need to ensure that there are good qualification measures where both the reference person and the reunited person live. The most important thing for us is to help those who come to Norway and live in Norway get qualifications so that they can participate in the labour market. Whether there is a requirement for the place of residence that is the challenge – I don't think that, I think the most important thing is that we make sure that there are good qualifications.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e612	The challenge of both family start-up, e.g. with a Norwegian, and in the case of family reunification, if you live in a district with no educational opportunities, you will be deprived of the opportunity to take a professional letter if you are not allowed to commute for, for example, a week. to have a place of practice, an apprenticeship or to attend vocational training. Doesn't the Council see that there should have been exceptions here? Of course, we're in favour of a living requirement, and it's an important obstacle to preventing pro forma. But shouldn't it be an exception for those who have to stay away in the days of the week to complete an education?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e617	I don't know the details of the requirements that are set. What I am concerned about is that those who come to Norway to live in Norway are given the opportunity to obtain qualifications so that they can get into work. If it's absolutely necessary to look at some exceptions, let's take a closer look at it. But here there might be different considerations that need to be balanced against each other, so I don't want to shoot anything at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e622	It is good that the Council of State will look at it, because it is a real problem. It must be better for people to complete an education than not to get it – especially if you are going to live in different places in the country. I want to challenge the Council of State on two things. SV has submitted several proposals to revise the introduction system more fundamentally than the government has proposed. We believe that all basic qualification must be accepted and completed within the scheme. All the research – and there is not so little we have on this – shows that we need to close the gap between what immigrants can do and what their working life needs. Then it is also about being able to demonstrate completed competence. Secondly, we believe that some quality criteria need to be set for language training in the introduction programme and in the system of rights and obligations to Norwegian and social knowledge for adults. What is the reason why the government does not agree with SV in this?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e633	It seems to me that SV agrees with the government, because we are now reforming the introduction system. There's been too much randomness. There's been too much price-bonanza and too little qualification. We know that very many of those who come to Norway to live in Norway have very little education, and that very few municipalities offer basic and further training as part of the introduction programme. This is why we are now reforming the introduction programme to allow for more modular training. Quality assurance shall be provided for both Norwegian and social subjects and it shall also be possible to start vocational training. That's exactly why we're making sure it's modular.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e639	I think it is incredibly important to go from words to actions, that it is not strategy by strategy, words about raising after raising, but concrete action. So to my first question, if we want to reform the settlement, we have to make sure that the refugees' skills match that of the municipality where there is the greatest chance of getting into work. How do we make sure that this is quality? Then NOKUT has to take responsibility. Yeah, it's going to cost some money, but it's going to cost billions if we can't get those people into work as fast as possible. The second question is: what kind of concrete demands will the Council of State make to the municipalities? Should they have language policy space, as we suggest? Should they have kindergarten space, as we suggest? Do they want to know what kind of labour market they have — a commitment to cooperation with business? This will lead to better inclusion and integration in municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e648	As I said in my article, the government has now tightened its housing policy. Firstly, no one should be settled in urban areas with 30 pst. Immigrant share. Secondly, we are now placing a significant emphasis on the results of the municipality in the introduction programme. It means to what extent people come from the introduction program into work or further education. It's absolutely central. Now we already see that many of the municipalities that have succeeded well, including small municipalities, have more residents. Eid is an example of that. The globe is an example of that. Those who have good programs in their introduction system will have more people settled for next year. It's not that it's strategy by strategy, plan by plan. In concrete terms, we are following up in the budget for 2019: 420 million. To target actions as we know to work, Jobjesen Part A, Youth Combination Classes, Minority Advisers, Voluntary Organisations, Modular Training – just to mention something. We go from word to action.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e655	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e660	The Norwegian model and the way we have organized Norwegian society is the main reason why Norway is one of the world's best countries to live in. It has also made us successful in integration. Too many of those moving to Norway are out of work or fall out after a short period of time. It is serious about integration. We believe that work is the key to good integration. In order to get to work, more people need to be trained and qualified. There are variations in the level of employment of immigrant groups between them, but in general it is significantly lower than that of the rest of the population. The same applies to the level of education. In an increasingly fewer jobs that do not require formal education, this is a challenge. The key to integration is work, and the path to work is through education and qualification. In our alternative state budget for 2019, we propose to strengthen the work on language practice sites under the will of 10 million. kr. At the same time, we will increase the incentives for more labour-oriented Norwegian, labour and industry-driven Norwegian training by 10 million. kr in relation to the government's proposal. Furthermore, in our alternative budget, it is proposed to strengthen the Job Jansen Part C by 20 million. kr and Jobjesen part A by 30 million. kr. In the Workers' Party's alternative state budget for 2019, we promote a proposal for a comprehensive skills reform divided into two main strands – learning at work, and learning on the way to work. The reform of competences will facilitate cooperation between the social partners and the Nav, the regions, the municipalities and the health and education system, where it will be possible to acquire proper and job-qualifying competences. This may be a strengthening of basic skills such as reading and writing, digital skills or the completion of secondary education. The initiative involves a coherent view of health services, competences and labour-oriented activities in order to ensure close and proper follow-up of people outside the labour market. In a labour market requiring more formal competence, labour market policies need to be strengthened and measures more focused on education and real qualifications, leading to a solid footing in the labour market. We believe that labour market policy needs to be strengthened and that training needs to be more widely used as labour market measures. We will implement a real inclusion rate in line with what LO and NHO have said by increasing the use of wage subsidies in working life. It is necessary to organise courses in which wage subsidies are combined with professional letters and future permanent employment in close cooperation with the social partners. The proportion of young people who are not at work is high and the number of young people who are not at work is increasing dramatically. The system of redundancy payments is not working well enough. It is essential that young people who are lacking in secondary education are guaranteed basic formal competence, and that Nav concentrates more on skills-enhancing measures, including training measures, more flexible practice of day-to-day pay legislation and more on the use of wage subsidies. The Workers' Party will stimulate our knowledge institutions to contribute more to continuing training and to extend the sectoral programmes to transport and trade in goods. The Labour Party will also include adult training and have more decentralised education services. I would like to refer to other posts launched in the Labour Party's alternative state budget for 2019, where we have added a total of 1.24 billion. kr to this competence reform for next year. The government's response is a few puzzles here and there in the budget, and in the response from the Olemic Thommess, the only concrete thing he has highlighted is that we will soon have – after having heard it for a year already – a reform of the intro programme. We're glad, but while we're waiting, we've now launched a powerful skills reform that will mean something to people who're out of work. The government shows with a forceless bet that what they're doing is just talk and little action.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e685	From 2012, around 80,000 refugees and family reunions have been accommodated in Norway. This year it's 27,000, going to work and education. These must find new belongings and new communities to be a part of, community that provides security and well-being in a new country. It is a personal challenge, and it is a challenge for our communities, especially when many are going into work, education and community at once. The main project of the right is to build a sustainable welfare society. That is a guiding principle for us in all areas. In order for immigration to be sustainable over time, more immigrants need to work. We agree on that. It's important for socialisation. Everyone must contribute to the maintenance of well-being. It's our work that lays the foundation for this. Work is the best poverty fighter. Work, education and qualifying people for a job are three of the most important areas in the Right. The influx of asylum into Europe has fallen in the last two years due to border cooperation and the agreement between the EU and Turkey, but we know that the number of refugees is increasing globally. That is why we must also be prepared for the return of asylum. Our asylum institute is important because it takes care of persecuted people. At the same time, we have seen that it is not designed to handle as large migration waves as the one we had in 2015, and we know that it needs to be solved through the UN quota system. People who come to Norway because of war and distress are entitled to protection and to help and support so that they can take care of themselves as quickly as possible. In this budget we are now going to adopt, we are going to receive 3,000 quota refugees next year. It's a high number, and in order for it to be successful, we have to make demands at the same time and have expectations that those who come here will both learn Norwegian and be willing to participate in the world of work. Our welfare state is built on trust and high levels of labour participation, and it must also apply to new citizens. At the same time, we know that many lack the formal competence of the labour market our demand. 70 pst. of those who come here as refugees, have only primary or no education. This is why the government's approach to getting more people working is a clear commitment to education and qualification. Both the integration promise and the inclusion virtue are about using the resources of each individual person, to create values and well-being for the individual and for society. That is why I am particularly pleased that the government is now improving the scheme in the introduction programme and renewing and improving Norwegian training. It is not only useful to impose requirements on the number of hours without a measure of acquired competence. That the government strengthens the system of grants Competence plus, so that more people get basic knowledge in reading and writing, is good, and I want to stress that I am particularly pleased that the qualification and labour market measures are to be reviewed and improved. The government strengthens the targeted job offer, part A, for immigrant women outside the labour market, by 15 million. and opens up cooperation with social entrepreneurs. We know that immigrant women are often in a particularly difficult position when they have to fit into working life. That's why I think it's exciting when someone sees examples like what we see in my own home state and Lvgal municipality, where Jobbsjansen has been a project from 2013. Now 46 immigrant women have participated in the project. 40 of them have finished and have completed the project of going to work. Six of the participants are still active in the project. So the result is 100 pst. transition to work or training in this project in Lwigal. It's politics that works. In the end, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Christian People's Party and the government parties for removing the maximum limit of NOK 10 000 for the large families of children in reception, so that it can now be cancelled. It's an important measure for a small group, but I'm very happy that it's coming into place now.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e706	From 2016 until today, few asylum seekers have arrived in Norway. We have received just above 9 500 asylum seekers in the period January 2016 until the end of November 2018, of which 1500 have been relocated from the EU. Fewer asylum seekers over a three-year period have we not had since the mid-1990s. In comparison, Norway received between 9 785 and 11 983 asylum seekers per year in the period 2012 to 2014. The number of asylum seekers is expected to remain low in 2019. Few asylum seekers mean that the government can reduce the appropriations for the reception of asylum seekers. Overall, government proposals for funding for programme category Protection and immigration have been reduced by 683.7 million. kr compared to the 2018 balanced budget. There are funds that can be used for other important tasks. Part of the expenditure relating to refugees and asylum seekers is carried out as assistance and covered by the assistance framework. The Government proposes to reduce the cost of assistance to the Ministry of Justice and Defence by 473.7 million. kr compared to the 2018 budget. It is also important in the future to pursue an asylum policy that keeps the number of asylum seekers as low as possible without a need for protection. This allows resources to be used for persons with a real need for protection. In view of the low number of asylum seekers and the expected decline in family immigration, the government proposes to increase the number of transfer refugees to 3000 in 2019. It is important both to prevent and to detect the presence of persons in Norway based on incorrect information. The government proposes to grant 10 million. to strengthen the work of recalling authorisations granted on the wrong basis. The means shall also be used to extend the use of DNA tests in family reunification cases. The government will also give priority to return in 2019. The increased resources received by the police in recent years for the identification and investigation of illegal persons in Norway continue in 2019. Applicants for asylum who are not entitled to protection and do not travel on a voluntary basis shall be forced to return. This is important in order to maintain confidence in the institution of asylum and send a clear signal to them without a need for protection that considers travelling to Norway. As a result of a high number of shipments over several years and low asylum arrivals, the target for return is now reduced. The Government, in its proposals for the 2019 government budget, is adding to a strong trend in immigration policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e723	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e728	Yesterday we saw that the government disagreed with the government. This is quite new in Norwegian policy. It is chaos, but it is also serious that we have a government that is divided and lives with completely different realities of something as important as control, predictability and joint responsibility in migration policy. Yesterday, the Progress Party claimed that if the government agrees to this platform, it means that Norwegian immigration policy is lost, freedom of the press is threatened, social security exports are increased. It was even claimed that the agreement contained a clear lie and that the agreement ‘changes everything with regard to migration’. My question is, is this also the reason of the Council of State that he took hers, or does he disagree with his own big group?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e735	As explained by the government, this platform is not legally binding. It's a political document. That means that as long as the Advance Party sits in government, we won't have to base it, because it doesn't bind the government. What I use as a basis for my policy is the Jeløya Declaration and the policy that lies there. So I don't have any reason to fear it. But – and that’s important – I understand the representatives who fear this platform if the Workers’ Party joins the government. The Labour Party has declared its agreement to the platform, and we may then have to assume that they want to establish the platform for the policy to be pursued.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e740	The council did not answer my question. Is it the case that the Council of State agrees with the Group of the Progressive Alliance that this agreement means that Norway loses control of Norwegian immigration policy, that there is more social security exports, that the freedom of the press is threatened and that it changes everything on the issue of migration? Is it true that the Minister for Immigration, who represents the Progress Party, agrees with his own ageing group – or not? If he agrees with his own group, he should have resigned from the government yesterday as Minister for Immigration and withdrawn the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e746	I have experienced that I answered the question. There is no need to worry about this platform as long as the Progress Party is in government, but there is reason to be concerned about this platform if the Workers' Party is in government. Therefore, it is a great point that the Party of Advancement remains in government. The platform is not binding in any legal or international way – ergo it is a political document. Then the political leaders are at the root of this. I would like to say that it is more important now than ever that the Progress Party sits in government, so that we do not have to fear the warnings to which the representatives of the Progress Party referred yesterday.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e753	It's a first time for everything: this is the first time I've heard about how important it is to sit in government to prevent the Prime Minister from getting a pass on what she's signing on. To a very different point: In October 2017, then Minister of Justice Sylvi Listhaug presented a plan for advice on a new arrival centre where the police and UDI would work closely together to clarify their status within 21 days. They will either be allowed to stay or sent out of the country. It was said that they had the hope that this would be up and going in the next year, i.e. during 2018, if the Stortinget agreed to it. This is well one year ago, and since then we haven't heard anything. Has this been put on ice? Can we expect a matter for Stortinget soon? What's the status?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e760	This is not at all put on ice. The reception in council exists. There are also asylum seekers there for periods. But we're not done with the conversion as we want to do it, so it's still under development. I myself have been and visited the place, and I think it will be a very good and effective place, because it does the following: in a successful situation, those who are going to be should get a quick treatment, so that we can quickly integrate them into the society in which they are going to be in. Non-returners should be returned as soon as possible. That's why you've added up to different tracks, for example. a fast track, which should be even faster – only 48 hours – for some clearly groundless asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e765	The present State Councillor, Listhaug, also said at the time that when this plan was concrete, it would be presented to Stortinget and implemented during 2018, if it got the approval of Stortinget. Will this matter be submitted to Stortinget, or will this change happen without involving the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e770	We're still developing the reception centre on advice. What we're doing is doing the building improvements that need to be done. Of course, if there is a need to make legislative and regulatory changes, or there are budgetary implications, the Storting will be involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e775	In 2016, I asked a question about the government thinking that Jesuits could be returned to Iraq's internal refugees. They said, "Yes, of course they could." Now Nadia Murad has just received the Nobel Prize. She has told that if she had not been taken out of these neighbourhoods, she would probably have been killed. Governments and governments have applauded Murad's opposition and history. At the same time, we know that with the government's policy, Jesuits are returned to these areas. Does the Council of State see the need to bring people out of the neighbourhoods because there is no security there, even if they are in some so-called camps in the neighbourhoods? Does the Council of State recognize that this is a matter of life and death for anyone?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e782	There are two tracks that apply to the reception of refugees in Norway. One is asylum seekers. Asylum applications are received and processed under the legislation. The second is that we pick up quota refugees/transfer refugees, and then we like to pick them up from different camps. There are reception commissions, and this is done on the recommendation of the UN High Commissioner. That's the basis for the receptions we have. You don't send people out into the world to bring someone home on the basis of singles and singles. Asylum applications are being dealt with, and there is cooperation with the UN High Commissioner for Refugees. I think that is a very sensible and correct track when Norway is going to accept refugees.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e787	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e794	Our community is attractive. Nevertheless, the main challenge for Norway is to secure the welfare society in the long term. It's about taking responsibility for our citizens and for the coming generations. A mixture of poverty, organised crime, elective extremism and weak institutions and countries often give rise to instability and conflict in many countries. Climate change is also conducive to the continued development of traditional agriculture. These challenges must be met by targeted and coordinated action and increased presence of local government and world society. The objective of stabilising countries and strengthening living conditions for the population will contribute to less migration and less need for asylum. There is very little point in SV’s policy – bringing more into our country. Being able to seek asylum is a personal right that needs to be protected, but collective migration challenges have to be addressed in other ways: The participation of women in employment and society needs to be increased. Regional and national actors in countries with challenges must work for security and peace. The fight against terrorist financing and criminal networks must be strengthened. The fight against corruption must be supported, and important institutions such as the police and courts must be strengthened. Value creation and employment must be increased, and we are doing the best we can by ensuring that trade in the world is free. We don't need a policy that supports illegal migration. Nor do we need a policy where most of the resources are spent on a small number of migrants in new countries, rather than on much greater use of resources in the home countries. The consequences of poor regulated immigration are considerable. Norway had a ‘population renewal’ last year, where it was born about 60,000 children, at the same time 20,555 people with non-Western origins were in a state of dissatisfaction. In other words, they were legal “migrants” according to today’s rules. Non-Western immigrants arriving in Norway are expensive. An estimate can be found in NOU 2017: 2, from the Brochmann II selection. It says that it costs 94,000 kroner per man and 170 000 kroner per woman every year for those who come from land area 3. This pattern of immigration, if it persists according to the SSB’s moderate forecasts, will contribute to a burden on Norwegian taxpayers of approx. 10 000 additional 2013 tax credits by 2025. That's about the same thing as every Northman would get a tax accumulator of 12.5 pst. A assumption then that this will be a form of average personal tax bill, based on the fact that tax payers over 17 years on average paid NOK 103 000 in taxes in 2013. We know that these averages are often wrong. Many are students and do not have income until later, so many will probably have to contribute much more. So it's expensive to be attractive – in so many areas. Therefore, it is good to see that the government's strict but also fair immigration policy has broad support in this room, albeit not from SV. But it's important that we follow the consequences in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e829	Immigration makes Norway a more diverse country. That's good. Our humanitarian tradition also requires that we help people in need, but it is not without challenges. It requires all parts of society to set up to ensure good integration. It has been necessary to deal with immigration and the number of asylum seekers, and we must take priority over those who have a real need for protection, the rapid settlement of those who are allowed to stay, and the rapid return of those who do not. I believe that the debate on immigration is often so much about how we accept those who are coming, as it does about who is coming. Good integration is essential, and the more we focus on good integration, the better we can accept those who are to be settled in Norway. NTB reported this week that one in four asylum seekers this year are from Turkey. Of the total 2,882 asylum seekers who have come to Norway so far this year, 720 are from Turkey. The conflict between the Erdogan regime and the Gülen movement is contributing to this. I'll tell you about one of these, who's found their way into the sports club I belong to, in Kristiansand. I would like to take credit for how the Sports Association, the municipality of Kristiansand and the Norwegian Fekte Association have contributed to the fact that they have been able to exercise their sport from the first day in Norway. All sportsmen who are members of the Norwegian Sports Association aim to get everyone involved. This is good integration policy. In practice, you can learn Norwegian, make Norwegian friends and become a part of Norwegian society. It is very positive that the government will mobilise civil society more to improve the success of everyday integration. In this context, sport and cultural life are key players with which we need to cooperate if we are to succeed. With my experience from Norwegian fiction, I would like to add that it may not be our typical winter sports that are the most accessible to refugees or asylum seekers. It is in line with the interest and ability of sports that many already have that integration is progressing faster. We must therefore also facilitate the maintenance of a variety of sports activities within the organised sports community.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e842	In the evening post in 2016, there was a chronicle with the following invitation: «Dear girl living in a glass house: there is no shame in being free! Your opponents will say that you have become too western. But if it's synonymous with being free, I'm western – and proud of it." So Sofia Srour, one of the authors of the book ‘Shamless’. The NRK profile Noman Mubashir has stood out as a homofil. He told Dagbladet – also in 2016 – that the media had asked him to talk about this for over 15 years, but he did not dare. ‘I feared the responses that could come from the Norwegian-Pakistan environment. It is thanks and price a little better today, but we have a long way to go." [[...]] I'm joining the last statement. These stories tell about the needs of organisations, and not least volunteers working in these organisations, who address issues such as negative social control. Born Free, LIM and Minotenk are examples of such organisations. They have all received increased subsidies in the state budget and additions through the negotiations with the Christian People's Party. The work of voluntary organisations is essential for our success, in particular with everyday integration. The government has taken some action in the State budget to simplify and target both the grant schemes. In the field of integration, four searchable grant schemes for non-governmental organisations are now being transformed into one searchable scheme. It will create less bureaucracy, both for volunteers and for the public sector. I hope that this will mobilise and target the efforts of the organisations, and that it will be more attractive to work in non-governmental organisations. Low use of skills raising and negative social control helps if qualified, has spent a lot of time on empowerment and has not been able to fit in with the labour market. Discrimination continues to occur. It has to be controlled. Similarly, Islamophobic attitudes are emerging in Europe and also in Norway. It enhances alienation, and in worst cases it can cause radicalisation of young people who do not feel at home or have room either in their own environment or in what we can call the ‘Norwegian environment’. So integration is a big challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e866	I agree with every word that Mr. Ørmen Johnsen has just said. Therefore, SV chooses to spend more money on the Anti-racist Centre and to cut the allocation to the Human Rights Service, which contributes to racist attitudes that make it difficult for young people and others to get a job. Therefore, in this setting, we also propose strengthening the competence of gender and sexual diversity and cultural competence in adult education related to the introduction scheme. I urge the Right to vote in favour of that proposal, because that is exactly what the representative Mr. Örmen Johnsen was now up and talking about. It is very important – also to be involved in ensuring that you are given the right to complete your skills, a right. I see that the government has taken some steps along that way, but unfortunately not far enough; they have not supported SV fully. But it's true what Ormmen Johnsen says, that there's a lot about attitudes and moods. Then it's a little bad to hear these posts where you're sitting and counting on saving people. Because there are people who die now because of closed borders. We have to assume that that's the way it is. It would also have helped if the Minister of Justice had contributed to the fact of the volume of which non-residents contribute most to crime. It's not the refugees, it's the immigrants. I've also looked at the numbers for forced returns. Is most of it from Afghanistan and Syria? No, that's not it. It's mostly Eastern Europeans and Russians. It is those who are the great volume of forced return in Norway. It is important now that representatives of the government are also honest about this, because it is absolutely wrong when refugees and asylum seekers are almost labeled criminals in themselves. There are possibly many of them who say it, don't mean it, but it sounds like it, and everyone else hears it. It contributes to an atmosphere that whips up racism, which the representative Ørmen Johnsen was just up to and warned against – because it's wrong, and because we then lose a lot of resources among great people who want to contribute to our society and who have a lot to come with. Therefore SV proposes increases in all the areas that many people have been up and talking about now. So it's important what kind of facts the government and government's big-time representatives bring to the table, and that we get to discuss these matters from the facts, and not the desire of the Progress Party, to cause panic in all the camps. Because it doesn't contribute to anything good, and unfortunately the other parties have either contributed to it or been silent about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e875	The centre party wants a responsible and decent refugee policy, and the most important thing for us is to ensure good integration for those who are coming. After 2015, there are still many who are not in work or education, and in addition, a significant number of family reunions have taken place. The centre party believes it is right to ensure that more attention is paid to the future integration and targeting those who have come to Norway, while receiving quota refugees to receive those who need it the most. To ensure that we get more out of work, languages are crucial. The centre party is clear that language is priority number one in order to ensure good integration. That is why, in our alternative budget, we are also giving priority to strengthening this. The main objective must always be to make the most of the work. This can reduce poverty and differences-related challenges. It is a problem that child poverty in Norway is increasing, and to a large extent it is children of immigrant parents. If we can't make sure that more people get out of work and get a closer relation to Norwegian society, we're at risk of even more growing up in poverty. It is a major challenge both in the short and long term. This is probably a lot about not being able to ensure good enough qualifications for new countrymen. Language training and formal qualification must achieve better results to ensure that immigrants do not stay without work and their own income. The lack of organisation for those who do not live in a place of education is another matter that I addressed in the reply. Integration and empowerment require time and resources both for individuals and for society, and we need to ensure that it is more adapted to the individual, so that it leads to formal skills appropriate to the Norwegian labour market. I record that the government is now strengthening language training in reception. That's good. They have previously reduced this, and fortunately they have now realized that it was a big mistake. Another issue that has been raised recently is the maximum level of food money at reception, where child-rich families do not have enough to cover food costs. This has several parties, including the Center Party, compensated for in the budget. We need to ensure that people living in reception in Norway do not experience food uncertainties, and we need to ensure that people who come to Norway can live safely under dignified conditions. That is why I am pleased that the Christian People's Party has managed to turn the government on this issue. Much good work is being done to integrate municipalities, and volunteering is an important part of this. It probably doesn't come as a surprise to anyone that the Center Party is occupied with scattered settlements, and that we will use the whole country. Therefore, we will ensure that no new ones are settled in municipalities that already have area challenges, but that they are settled in all municipalities in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e894	Many of the challenges we face in the debate on integration relate to many of the important freedom and equality struggles in our society, namely the freedom to live their lives in different ways. Many in immigrant communities face great social and cultural pressures when it comes to choosing how to live their own lives. The Labour Party believes that combating social control is a common responsibility. In Norway, everyone shall have the freedom to be himself. Therefore, the Workers' Party will have county-level advisers who can work to detect social control and help victims. For this, we've put in $15 million. kr in our alternative budget. Advisors shall enhance the competence of various departments in contact with young people, such as school, child protection, health authorities and health sisters, and cooperate closely with minority counsellors working towards schools. We believe that the immigrant organisations and other voluntary activities are crucial for the good integration that is taking place in many municipalities throughout the country. Combating social control is a common responsibility. Everyone shall have the freedom to be himself, to participate and to break out if they experience limitations in their freedom. Everyone in Norway shall have the freedom and the ability to participate in social gatherings, leisure activities, work and other social activities. For this reason, the Workers' Party strengthens the allocation to national organisations by 32.9 million. kr in relation to the government budget. We want to strengthen all the organisations that receive support, with the exception of the Human Rights Service, as the Workers' Party in its 2019 Alternative State Budget proposes that no support should be given. We want to label some of the media, for example. We're going to give 2.5 million. kr to the organisation City Councillors, so that several municipalities can get projects together with city councillors to achieve more everyday integration. The Labour Party believes it is important to combat social control and negative attitudes towards LHBTI+ people. Therefore, we will set at NOK 900,000 to the organisation Skeiv welt, to further develop a programme for employees in the introduction scheme. This programme shall aim at combating negative attitudes and strengthening the training of LHBTI+ students in the introduction scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e905	I would first like to comment on some of what emerged from the representative Karin Andersen about people with a refugee background and crime. Andersen presents it as if we are trying to bring out people with a refugee background as more criminals than others. We have no interest in blackmailing the situation, we have no interest in spreading something that is not right. A year ago, however, a crime report was produced by the SSB, which showed that they had a refugee background, for example. three times the prevalence of violent crime other than that of the rest of the population. Countries such as Somalia are seen to be among the top countries for crime statistics. This is important to be aware of and not try to push away and hide away, because if we don't dare to be aware of what is happening, we can't act towards a negative development either. On the other hand, on the state budget and among the voluntary organisations receiving support, there is a small sea of voluntary organisations and others receiving support, which are very liberal for immigration. So there's one entry that goes to HRS, which is the only critical voice in immigration policy, that focuses on the sides we have to do something about. They also want to combat SV. One does not want to hear the reality of the impact of immigration policy, nor does one manage to do anything about it. I am very pleased that we support a variety of voices that can explain what is happening as a result of the immigration and integration policies being pursued. But the reason why I really took the floor, was to make a little addition to the proposal that was promoted. I can read out the suggestion, which is as follows: ‘The increase consents to an increase of 6 million. crowns over cap. 490 item 1 may be used for measures to improve the conditions for children in the asylum chain, including reception. The appropriations may also be used under Chapter 2. 490 item 21.’ The Appendix is then replaced by the following: ‘and on this background the keyword is added: may be used under item 21.’ It would then be quite correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e919	It's not easy to find the thread in this. I am listening to the representative Thommessen and the representative, Engen-Helgheim, and I hear that they are in two completely different universes, or two completely different worlds, in terms of asylum and refugee policy. Yesterday we had a rather private round here on the Stortinget on the migration platform, where the representative of the Progress Party of Engen-Helgheim went so far that he stood here on this pulpit and actually regretted that his own government was in favour of, supported, this platform – even after having heard his own foreign minister explain the matter. A large circus was created by the Progress Party yesterday in asylum and immigration policy in an attempt to wash their hands for the outer right wing. Yesterday's exposure is not continued today, because today the Progress Party accepts to increase the number of quota refugees, among others. There is complete crack and chaos in the government parties. It is so great that I hear that today the Minister of Justice of the Progress Party does not quite know what he is going to be on: his own party The politics of the Progress Party or the politics of the government. As regards asylum and immigration policy, the government is in the process of fully stepping up its gluing. It's highly suspicious. The country doesn't deserve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e928	In 2015 it was an impressive effort by many municipalities in the country. Small municipalities received large numbers of refugees. Today, many of these municipalities are in an economically difficult situation. We see an increase in social and economic inequality. Refugees are overrepresented among the unemployed, especially refugee women. Once again, it means living conditions challenges, such as: lack of integration and increasing poverty. The government is still cutting the appropriations for the municipalities, while requiring greater action from the municipalities. This is not going to work out. Several municipalities do not currently have the economy to meet the challenges they face. Municipalities need to be strengthened financially in order to implement good and long-term integration measures. In light of this year's Nobel Peace Prize and with today's knowledge, we know that a good part of the refugees who come to Norway have challenges because they have experienced traumas and inhumane acts. Refugees are people who have lost homes, families, and friends. Everything that was known has become unknown. These are the facts that we have to take into account and integrate. If we're to succeed in integration, we need to apply knowledge and methods that we know to work. If a person is to succeed in being integrated, he must have the opportunity to follow up his children at school and in leisure, to have colleagues and to feel that he is contributing to society. You have to understand society. One must be few in activity and in work. We know that measures such as work, social knowledge and language skills are integral. The Labour Party therefore proposes 30 million in its alternative budget. SEK to Jobjesen directed at women, SEK 7 million. kr for extension of the introduction programme, 10 mill. kr targeted for labour and industry Norwegian and 10 million. kr to language practice. As much as possible will be integrated into the society in which they live, and they will be able to do so. We in the Workers' Party aim to be the best in the world in integration. So we're going to take 10 million. to research to find the best ways to enable refugees to get into work and become part of the Norwegian community. An integration action that we can take for free is about rhetoric. Retoric has effect. People who are referred to as a problem may develop into a problem. People who are seen as a resource become a resource. Research shows that this works. Policies must show the way, so that people coming to Norway can use their potential — and not least have the opportunity to become part of the Norwegian community.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e941	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e946	SV is opposed to providing state grants to a blog – because that's what Human Rights Service is – that spreads right-wing extreme conspiracy theory. There is no need for any state aid to be granted. I'm just asking the representatives to experiment a little bit with the idea that if you had thought it would have been okay if this had been a Jewish-critical blog. Freedom of expression applies, you do not need to have State aid in order to have it. The second is crime statistics. Adjust it for age and sex, so this looks very different! Young men are more criminal than others; men are considerably more criminal than women. That is the reality. We don't walk around and fear all men for that reason – or spread such thoughts about all men for that reason. Then stop it! The last is: if the government cares about identity crime – which is serious – related to international crime, get biometrics in place!
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e955	The representative Siri Gåsemyr Staalese has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e960	I would like to take the opportunity to ask the State Council of Sanner for a quick reflection on what he said instead, namely that the government now does not want to live in the Stovner district, but in e.g.. The Gloppen municipality, which has good results on the intro programme. When I was visiting adult training at Helsfyr in the fall, the principal told me that through the Groruddals bet – at Smedstua adult training, located in the city of Stovner – they had got to a start-up, a pilot, to get health professionals fast through a school run. As Sanner also knows, the Helsfyr model has been used in many municipalities – among others. The globe, as he himself mentioned — as a way of getting immigrants through the fast pace of the intro programme. I wonder how Sanner weighs the proportion of immigrants in urban areas up against urban areas that get very good results in pilot projects on training.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e965	The representative, Jon Engen-Helgheim, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e971	The figures from the crime report to the SSB that I commented on are adjusted for sex and age, and still come Somalis at the top of the statistics, still refugees are three times more violently criminal than the rest of the population. So what SV says is completely wrong. This government is proposing to accept 110 fewer quota refugees in total than the average over the last four years. The Progress Party lives well with that. What I complained about yesterday was the Center Party and the Workers' Party, who asked for an explanation, and who welcomed it. But when the Foreign Minister came and made a good statement, they would not debate it. Then they criticized the government for coming and keeping the presentation. It turned out to be a game for the gallery. I criticized that – that we signed such an agreement without having a debate, because the Central Party and the Labour Party opposed it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e980	I will try to avoid substantially extending the debate, but it is interesting to note that several of the parties have not taken the floor on this matter, where we debate it hard and concrete when it comes to how we should prioritise money to meet the challenges of integration, and not least to help more people who face the challenges of asylum. I register with interest to, among other things, The left has not taken the floor in this matter, while yesterday you had a great need to make a distinction. So did many representatives from the Progress Party. I note that you do not have the same interest today when you actually discuss the specific content of the matter. It's actually kind of amazing, and you could be tempted to ask why it's like this. Family reunification has been discussed here in the Chamber today. The representative, Engen-Helgheim, pointed out that the government's work has been put to the test in this way, and that there has been success. Then it is tempting to ask the representative, Engen-Helgheim, if he agrees with one of his party colleagues, Sylvi Listhaug, who was out there and said that she wanted to tighten up further on family reunification – just to get a clarification on what he thinks about it. In this context, it is interesting to note that both the Left and the Christian People's Party, which is obviously strongly opposed to this, has not been involved in the topic here today when we have actually debated it. I'm still struggling to understand why I'm moving 6 million. from the ordinary operation to strengthening the asylum chain for children, as it is called. In my head, there has been a strengthening of a number of areas, both in the opposition's alternative budget and in the position's budget, while what was indicated in the setting, is that the background is to strengthen the work of revoking a residence permit that has been given on the wrong basis, and increasing the use of DNA testing. I find that a little strange, but this may have to do with the fact that the procedure in the department has gone up in this area since it was originally introduced, but I register that you now want to spend the money on something else. I find that a little strange, because there is no match between what is written in the setting of the government parties, and what is suggested here in the hall now is to make repriorities. It may be a good re-priority, but the Central Party cannot agree to it when we come to the vote, simply because we do not have that money in our alternative budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e989	It is not my wish to extend this part of the debate, but I got a specific question from the representative, Gassemyr Staales, who I thought was so good that I could not answer. My starting point in the integration debate is that we shouldn't paint or paint. On the contrary, we have to raise what's going well, and then we have to take care of what's not working. Some of the things that go well are the adult training offer at Helsfyr, and the offer you have in the municipality of Gloppen – as you also have at Lillehammer – where participants in the introduction program get the opportunity to start with vocational training and get a letter. We know that's the way to work and to be able to live a life of your own. That is why we want this to be no exception. We want this to be something that is possible in the introduction programs also elsewhere. It is one of the key concepts of the reform of the introduction programme we are now doing. It is not that Oslo Municipality should not settle anyone in the future, but we have set a limit on urban areas and areas. I believe that there is a broad political consensus that we must ensure that there is not too much participation in some areas. We must help to have open and inclusive cities also in 10, 20 and 30 years, where we succeed in integration policy. Finally, it was said by the Workers' Party's immigration policy spokesman that they now wanted to introduce the social sciences of quota refugees before they arrived in Norway. It's already done. Now we're going to take a step further, where we're going to try out a project where we're going to get a programme before we finally decide whether to become quota refugees to Norway. It is to contribute to a reality orientation on what requirements we set, what values we emphasise, before a final decision is made by the Norwegian side on whether to take them out as quota refugees. This is important, and we are now trying out new ways to achieve even better integration.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e998	Let me start by saying thank you to the Council of State Sanner today for the helpful and helpful answers both in the change of line and now last here in the pulpit. Governments have also highlighted integration as one of the main government projects. I'm glad, and I think it's good that the government, however, after five years, put forward an integration strategy. Although we disagree with some of the instruments, there is a broad consensus that there is work, language and competence that are the main factors for success. For the Workers' Party, there is nothing new – work for everyone is work for one, even when you have come to the country with a different background. So some comments on the post by the representative Thommess, who is earnestly trying to repeat that the Workers' Party is waving in immigration policy. That description of his own policy and the words he borrows from the Workers' Party on a strict and fair immigration policy, we have used for many, many years. I noticed, however, that Thommes chose to drop the word that we have in addition, namely, a 'human' policy, but it gets his bill. The Thommessen was also concerned with the importance of international cooperation, like the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who said in his statement yesterday that we cannot solve these challenges unilaterally. If we're going to meet the migration challenge we've had, and the one we've got, which is likely to get bigger in the future, we're dependent on international cooperation. It brings me to the surrealistic performance that we had in this room yesterday, where you create and direct a play to wash your hands in relation to the project you're on. That's what you're trying to keep on holding on to today. Here it was claimed that the declaration you agree to has dramatic consequences, while the Council of State Wara says it has no consequences, because it is not legally binding. Here we are committed to saying that this declaration will help us to lose control, and then the Foreign Minister was standing at this pulpit yesterday and said that international cooperation of this kind of declaration is a prerequisite for and will strengthen control. That is when we speak against a broad majority in this policy. So the government parties come and drag their own disagreement into this room to try to wash their hands. At the top of it all, the State Council of Wara is unable to explain why he does not agree with the government's policy, and what it is with this declaration that makes him unable to give his consent to it. He was unable to do so during the line change, he was unable to explain that in his post. It's disappointing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1011	No more have asked for the word in Part 1. Part 2 of the debate, i.e. the budget chapters of the Ministry of Local Affairs and the Ministry of Modernisation and the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1018	Community is freedom. It contributes greatly to the creation of value in a society that we have a safe community that both assists us in difficult times, has a good school, ensures that we have a health care system, so that people get back on their feet when they are ill, and that we have systems for this that enable everyone to make use of their resources. That is why SV prioritises the municipal economy the highest of all parties. We want to increase it by 6 billion. and it is because there are a great many good purposes that will contribute positively to society, both socially and in order to reduce disparities, and that will also contribute to economic value creation. In the county municipalities, we want to strengthen the country's ability to conduct good secondary education, including vocational training. We want them to be able to develop good public transport, and not least to have funds for regional development, as the government says in the budget to give over 6 pst. more jobs and more than 5 pst. major value creation. These are funds that the government has deliberately cut over 1 billion. kr i as long as they have sat. It's a mystery, because here you have an instrument that creates what you want. You say it's so hard to get people to live in the districts, because there's no job there, and here we have a tool that creates a job, and then you cut it. It can't tell anything but that you want centralization and don't care about all these small businesses. There's a lot of county councils are doing, which is good. In the municipalities we have primary school. We have the care of the elderly. We care for people with developmental disabilities. We have everything we need to create good communities, which companies also depend on if they're going to make their businesses work well and they're going to be able to recruit the best. What we're doing, as opposed to what the government is doing, is we're fully financing our investments, including those for which it's now become a majority in the UK, but for which the government doesn't finance. An area that has been particularly difficult for a long time is particularly resource-intensive services, and there I would like to pay tribute to the Christian People's Party that has managed to get back some money into this. This is serious. These are expenditures that local authorities cannot control in any way or in any other way. It is very different from the municipality to the municipality, and therefore this is a very accurate system. It should be increased, because what we see now is that when it's not financed, it goes beyond the care of the elderly otherwise, and perhaps especially services for people with developmental disabilities. There is now a report on human rights violations. I would like to draw the Committee's attention to the new national audit report on the care of older people in the municipalities. It was also not a pleasant reading. There is a need here, and there is a need for action, so that we can put in place more full-time jobs. It is also necessary for women to be able to live on their jobs, but not least it is important for the quality of the services to be provided. So for housing: the housing market has become one of the largest difference machines in this country. Now the differences are increasing dramatically because the government and government parties will. They hand out money to the richest and tighten up for the poorest. Now an average family – it says in the budget – who get housing support, has income of NOK 134 000 and a budget bill of NOK 93 000. It's absolutely necessary to do something about it. There are also far fewer families who get, despite the fact that there have been many more, and that the income of the low income groups has fallen. To live, we all have to live, and this is the biggest cost in the family economy. So improving housing will perhaps be the most important thing we do to combat poverty in the future and to give the family that security, at least for their home, so that you can not lie awake at night and ponder at this. Here SV has made several proposals. As regards proposal No: 8, which is in the position, we've drawn it, but we've changed the wording of the proposal, so it should be possible for more parties to join. It is about closing again the gap that the government says has arisen, because the different elements of the housing support were not regulated for several years before 2017. There is a gap that has arisen, and some of the changes that the government has made are fine, but the problem is that it lies there. The gap makes more and more of these out of the housing support system.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1033	It's going to be line change. It's going well in Norway – very well. Economic growth is well up again, after a period when things have gone a little bit worse. With the targeted efforts that have been made, including in the districts, I am a little surprised at how the SV representative here describes the effect of a cut of 1 billion. kr actually has. It is really the case that rural areas are going very well in aquaculture, tourism and agriculture, and in innovation and innovation there is a tremendous amount of happening. I myself am a representative from the districts and do not experience in the whole of the reality that the Center Party is telling us about. It's a fact that in the case we're dealing with today, SV 13 has proposals, plus that they probably come up with a document 8 that they didn't get enough room for in the budget. They have also made a loose proposal. Formidable $4.6 billion. kr more shall be used. Does it not see that this will have an impact on Norwegian business?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1044	This was a strange line. SV chooses to use the money differently from the right. Right chooses to spend billions for the richest of the country. We choose to spend our resources on the community. We choose to use them, for example. on regional funds, as the government says, works better than other instruments, providing more jobs and value creation in the districts. Yeah, it's going well in many places. But what happens in the districts is that if you don't have a job there, you move. It is centralisation that happens when you cut these funds, which could create jobs around the districts where the business environment is thin. It also describes the government's seas in the budget. There is a need to create a little wider business environments. We'll do that with these means. Then people have a choice if they want to live there or if they want to move to town. They don't have it today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1049	We have a lot of good programs. There are cluster programmes, business networks, business-right loan and back-up schemes for districts, mentoring services for entrepreneurs, the bioeconomy system, the business environment programme, the incubator programme, and things are going very well. My point, which I didn't get quite well in place because of the time, is that we've now reduced taxes over several periods. We see that despite reduced taxes, tax revenues for municipalities and for society are increasing. If we are now going to increase taxes again, as SV actually adds to their budgets, does SV not see dramatic consequences for both the inhabitants, who are not competitive with foreign labour, and for our business, who again face greater barriers to selling their products abroad? Once again, I'm disappointed in SV, who doesn't take or see the consequences of their oversupply policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1054	This is a total misconception. Point one: When the red-green government was set up, were more jobs created? more jobs in the private sector? than under this government. Point two: This government creates economic differences, and it's dangerous. It's very serious for those who are hit by it, but there are not powerful people with money in their pocket, like Right-wing sponsors. I understand that the Right is not afraid of them? It's nobody, isn't it? But SV believes that this is purely political error. It's the wrong value base, and it hurts the economy, because then there's a lot of resources that don't go into business. SV has a stronger focus on business development than the one in the Right, but we want to help businesses in the start-up phase and in crisis phases. When someone starts making a lot of private money on their private fortunes, they get to join in and contribute a little more to the community. That's fair.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1061	The Brochmann II committee's report, which came in 2017, points to the fact that the results and consequences of increased immigration are actually increasing differences among the majority of people. Then it is a paradox that the Central Party proposes to increase the number of refugees in the budget. The SV policy has consequences on several sides.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1067	I respond to the fact that the representative does not understand the difference between the Senterpartiet and SV. I represent SV and not the Center Party. The centre party is given a separate answer. I also record that the representative does not know the difference between refugees and immigrants. Norway has made good sense that we have had many who have come to this country. One of the things we're concerned about is that this should go even better -- I'm amazed that the Right has voted against -- is how to better qualify those who come here to the country, close the gap between what they can, and what employers actually expect people to be able to do. It's much better with a few more years of qualification than the rest of life on social security. These are resources, people are resources. I once heard Right speaking of «humans, not billions». Now I hear that the representative is running and counting crowns to see if he can afford to save lives. There's an SV disagree. We want these resources coming to Norway to contribute actively to society, and that is why we are betting on it. It's going to pay off.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1074	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1079	Norway is going to be a country where we take care of each other. It is absolutely essential for the Workers' Party. That is why we are strong defenders of the welfare society – and of the welfare community. The word ‘municipality’ comes from Latin and means ‘common’, and it is the local community that, through the municipality – a way of organizing the community – assists the individual member throughout his life: from the first meeting of the midwife service, through the use of kindergarten services and schools, the supply of clean drinking water and hygienic sewage systems, business development and cultural experiences, through activity offers, security and care as we get older and needs report, and to the last resting place in the cemetery, which is usually municipal. So money for the municipalities is money for us. We all live in a municipality. That's why it's up to us when the right-wing government uses the local economy to balance the tax cuts to those who have the most of them. In the draft government budget for 2019, the government is adding to a very low growth in the free income of the municipal sector, a real growth of only 0.7 p.m., according to the government’s own figures. The working party believes this is too small when municipalities have large unsolved tasks in key welfare areas. The Labour Party believes that kindergarten, school, care for the elderly and health care are important services in people's everyday lives and the most important thing we can spend the community's money on. In order to expand and strengthen these services, the Workers' Party believes that we need to give priority to a strong and predictable local economy. That is why, in recent years, we have proposed more money to the municipalities than to the government. The working party has more ambitions than the government for better quality in well-being, care and schooling in the municipal sector. We believe that there is a need for a sharp increase in the growth in the income of municipalities and counties. In the Workers' Party's alternative state budget, we therefore prioritise a strengthening of the municipal sector's revenues in 2019 by 3.5 billion. in addition to the Government's proposals. The growth is distributed between the municipalities and the counties. Included in this growth is a strengthening of the Top Funding Scheme for Resource-Required Services. In addition, we strengthen the regional development funds of the county municipalities. The right-hand side attacks not only the municipalities financially, but also politically. It is to be privatised and put off for competition – preferably with the EEA as an excuse. The Government statement states that ‘private operators should be able to compete for the provision of publicly funded services under the same conditions as public undertakings’. For this reason, the government is probably right that ESA has challenged the Norwegian social model, where Norwegian municipalities provide broad Community solutions in a pragmatic way. In response to the challenge posed by ESA, the government received the report Equal conditions of competition for public and private actors from a working group chaired by Professor Hjelmeng. The Hjelmeng report proposes bureaucratic rules that in practice will prevent many municipalities from offering good services to their citizens. The reason is therefore an ESA requirement that no EU country has had to implement. The obvious response from the government — rather than introducing bureaucratic rules — should be to take advantage of the space for action that exists. ESA is far more pragmatic than many think. It's about political will. Instead, there is a short-term, right-wing policy gain. We believe this is not just a failure of ordinary people around the country; it is a contribution to undermining the conclusion of the important EEA agreement. And that's the last thing we need right now. With policy instruments and the use of both private and public solutions, we have built a stone’s throw in creating a well-developed welfare society in Norway. We have used commercial interests, markets and public solutions as instruments, whichever gave the best solutions. But this government has as its political goal that you want to go in a different direction. They will build up the public sector to privatise and commercialise – it is a goal to create more markets. Where we have a pragmatic relationship to use private providers within the public sector and as a complement to the public sector, this government has an ideological agenda. The market and facilitating commercial interests are not an instrument. It's become a goal in itself. It is an objective to make a market out of the widest possible sectors. In the Working Party, we want something else. We are concerned with solutions, good solutions for the inhabitants and the business community. Therefore, we will strengthen the solutions for the community – not solutions where the quality varies with the size of your wallet or other resources you possess – because we want everyone to be able to participate and be part of society.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1104	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1109	The working party obviously does not understand the value of the work. The value of work, of someone going to work, and someone creating jobs, is that we have tax money to distribute for good purposes. It's e.g. thanks to value creation that we can afford to have such a rough local economy as this government has secured. The Labour Party delivers the reddest budget we've seen with Gahr Støre as a party leader. The Labour Party presents the largest tax increase since 2013. It makes it more expensive to work, and it becomes more expensive to create jobs. But it's not free to collect more tax money from people and businesses, even though the Workers' Party seems to believe it. Business loses competitiveness, they create less. The result is that both the municipalities and the state lose in the long term. My question is: Does the Workers' Party believe that it is good for Norwegian municipalities that it becomes more difficult to do business?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1116	I notice that the representative is concerned about the economic value of work. But I – and the Labour Party – believe that the value of work is far more than that. The value of work is also about an experience of being useful in society, an experience of being able to take care of themselves and theirs. Therefore, it has been, is and will be such for the Workers' Party that work for everyone is job no. one. Whether you're an immigrant, or you're born and raised here, or you come here to look for work for a shorter period, everyone has to have the opportunity to contribute. I don't accept the premise. We have a budget that facilitates more jobs in the districts, in central districts. We are actively using policy instruments to improve the framework conditions and predictability of business in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1123	I agree with the representative Sivertsen that the value of work is, of course, more than the tax revenue we get. This is also why the government has invested in inclusion and the state takes a greater responsibility for recruiting the people who are struggling to get into the labour market. But that doesn't change the fact that most of us also have to work in the private business, and private jobs actually have to be created. More value creation needs to be facilitated. There will be no more jobs if you increase the corporate tax, favor foreign ownership, and make it harder to create jobs. Nor can I hear that the representative Sivertsen answered my question: Will it be better for Kommune-Norway if it becomes more difficult to create values in this country?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1128	Let me answer the question again: The underlying premise for the question is that the Labour Party's policy makes it more difficult to create jobs. I do not agree with that premise. Then I answered the question for the second time. The other thing that is important, and which the representative jumps over, is that the Workers' Party has an offensive and comprehensive structure. We're prioritizing a six-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion. kr to create jobs across the country, along the coast, which is the future of this nation, and which has been the basis for the value creation we have, whether oil and gas, fishing or farming of new species, which both this and the previous government had great ambitions. There this government is choosing to cut. The regional development funds have been systematically re-established over several years, which now hampers the role I believe the county councils should have in facilitating the development of industry and work for more people. Because we agree that value creation must happen, and that is what is the basis. That's why we've always said, we're going to create, and then we're going to divide.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1135	SV and the Workers' Party are basically in agreement with the community and that we do not want to commercialise welfare, etc. That's what we're seeing now, that the differences are increasing enormously in society, and one of the drivers is what's happening in the housing market. On the figures, we can see that housing in the future budget is below the level in 2009 – in crowns. At the same time, we've become half a million more people, butchers have exploded, and the income of the low income groups has fallen. A group has fallen out almost systematically, and there are new unsatisfied people who come into the scheme and who are not covered by the transitional regime that is now becoming permanent. Therefore, SV has made two proposals, one to include new workers in the housing support scheme, and one to close the gap that has arisen because the elements have not been adjusted in very many years. What is the reason why this year's Workers' Party is not involved?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1140	We agree with the SV that we have a worrying development in which the differences between people in this country are increasing, and we also agree with the explanation of why this is so – because this government is pursuing a policy that contributes to it, among other things. With regard to the question relating to the SV proposals, we have in our alternative budget set at 100 million. extra to strengthen the housing support scheme. It is difficult for us to address the proposals that have been made when we do not have a full overview of the economic consequences. This does not necessarily mean that we disagree with the need to address that issue, but we are uncertain about the consequences and costs of the proposals submitted by SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1145	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1151	It went fast in the line change, so I referred to the Socialist Left Party as the Center Party. I'm sorry, of course it shouldn't be. There's a lot of good going on here in Norway. With the right in government over the last five years, municipalities have had strong income growth, and they have achieved very good results. At the beginning of this year there were 28 municipalities registered on the ROBEK list, and now at the end of the year there are only 17 remaining on this list. After a good budgetary settlement between the government parties and the Christian People's Party, the municipal sector was further strengthened. The growth of the total revenue after the conciliation is about 2.8 B.C.E. kr, where the real growth in free income is about 2,4 billion. kr in 2019. There is a growth of approx. 0.6 pst. This enables the municipal sector to strengthen key welfare services. Particular attention will be paid to early school interventions, better provision of drug addicts and upgrading and renewal of the county road network, to identify some of the areas of activity. The municipal sector has had a strong growth in its incomes gathered under this government, and they now have a very good economic foundation. The whole growth of free revenues for 2019 goes to the municipalities. The reason is that municipalities have increased demographic expenditure in 2019. For county municipalities, demographic expenditure is expected to be slightly reduced in the next year, as a result of the decline in the age group of 16 to 18 years. The tax estimate for 2018 has been adjusted by 2.4 billion. kr. This means that parts of the income growth that were announced in the municipality's 2019 proposal to come in 2019 are already coming in 2018. That's what the local authorities are trying to do. Then it is that if the municipalities streamline the operation by 0.5 pst. more than that in the budget, a further 1.2 billion may be released. kr. Centres for Economic Research believe that within the school, kindergarten, care and care is a potential to save a whole of 12 pst. It may be an illusion, but it shows that if local politicians are willing to prioritize, there are considerable resources that can be released and used on other services. It's not just in the municipal sector it's going well. Economic growth in the country is on its way up, and unemployment is on its way down. In meeting the fall in oil prices, the government actively used fiscal policy to counter unemployment and to contribute to the necessary transformation in both the private and public sectors. Government and Christian People's Party continue to give priority to improving public services through prudent frameworks for the municipal sector. For example, the regional centre is passed on to municipalities that choose to merge. Although much is going better now, there is no reason why we should not focus on the basic need for municipal convergence. Too many people today don't get the services they require, by law or by decision here in this room. There is not necessarily a lack of public resources in municipalities, but rather the use of resources. We are already among the countries in the world that spend the most money on education and health, for example. But quality is about more than money. There is often a lack of competence and skilled labour in many small municipalities. I felt myself as a dictator. Right wants people to live in all of Norway, and then we have to have growth power in the whole country as well. The most important condition for constancy is that people have a job to go to. The government is investing in competitiveness for Norwegian business. We have had record-breaking start-ups at the same time as several established industries and groups are engaged in change and renewal. It is often about better cooperation between enterprises, public institutions and municipalities. All business life, especially on the mainland, is in a municipality, and, therefore, it is particularly important that municipalities facilitate business. Right-wing policies for municipal structure, competence, business development, transport and communication are designed to strengthen and empower communities and districts, so that one can live and live in the whole country. The opposition's policy is to spend more money than the government and send the bill to the inhabitants and to the business community. Increased taxes appear to be the solution in itself — without thought that Norwegian labour force and Norwegian industry are weakening their competitiveness, which is the result of such a policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1185	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1190	In several consultations we have had in the Committee in the autumn, it has been pointed out that the main instrument for getting jobs in the district is regional development funds. That entry is more than halved from the red-green level. It may be wrong to say that the government is not occupied with jobs in the district, the problem is that they are most concerned with putting them down. They have been working to create new jobs in Sweden through the sugar levy, the 350 kronor limit, etc. I have to say that the food part on the right has disappointed me greatly. Even more surprised I was that it was with a right-wing government we first saw that a whole district industry was laid down with a pen stroke. A sustainable, profitable export industry is shut down with a pen stroke. So fur nutrition is no more important than being sacrificed on the altar of centralization. Is it really more important to provide for centralisation than to take care of district jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1197	Centralisation is not a goal in itself. What's important is that we facilitate business, so that one wants to both bust and live and live in the districts. The government has had an active and good policy to strengthen Norwegian competitiveness for business. And a lot is going well in Norway. The economic growth, as I said in my post, is on the way up, things are going well in the districts, and unemployment is going down. I'm not in agreement with the description of what goes bad in the districts – I don't experience what I come from, along the coast, and not in the inland. Even within agriculture, we experience growth and development. Also in other sectors, such as agriculture, fisheries and a range of other industries, there is growth and development.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1204	The President encourages the Chamber to press a line when the speaker has his post, so it's easier to distribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1209	I'll be the fastest in the lab at the next crossroads. We hear here that the municipal budget is boasting relatively high. There has never been so much money, etc. I want to ask the representative Trellevik a very simple question, really. If that's true, why is it that a lot of municipalities in the last four years have had to either introduce, maintain or even increase the property tax? Does the representative Trellevik think that right-wing and FrP rapporteurs who have done this in a number of municipalities are doing this just to plague their citizens or because they think they have a too bad community economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1216	It is the right of the representative to say that the municipal sector has come out of government's economic policy for the five years Right has been in government. It's going very well in Kommune-Noreg. But, as the representative knows – we have both our spokesmen – we have all felt that it has been imperative to make changes and get more for them in the municipalities. Even if there are good processes going on, that's what needs to be done in a lot of cases. I myself have been active in conversion work in the municipal sector and have, among other things, have helped to sort out both local planning and training, and I have taken part in positive decisions in this direction. I would like to encourage Kommune-Noreg to look at the consequences of the policy that they themselves are introducing into the future, because once a person has incurred an expense, and it hangs with it, a constant desire to get new measures in place. But it's not viable in the long term. Therefore, the municipalities must also focus on conversion.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1221	No, the right has never had any sense of ability to deliver. They think on the contrary that the more you have, the bigger carrots you have to have to put some sticks in the cross. The property tax has a great deal of professional support for cushioning differences, but it may seem a little unsocial if you don't have a good bottom-up on it. In Oslo we now see that the Right and Advance Party supporters even go to court so that the single mother of a two-room apartment does not have to pay property taxes when they have to. Therefore, SV wants to contribute to making property tax more social. We have a proposal in this budget to change the law to get a bottom-up deduction, for example. may receive deferred taxes on ownership transfer, if there is an elderly person living in a dwelling who does not have high incomes but who has very large housing assets. Will the Right help make this treasure fairer, or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1236	Right wants a good tax policy that ensures the weakest in our society and the growth and development of society in general. What is important is that we get growth and development and thus receive tax revenue to take care of the very weakest in society. But there are several ways to Rome, as it is popularly called. In the budget, there is a proposal from the government to reduce the tax from 7 to 5 per million on dwellings and cabins. At the same time, we want to protect the income from wind and water power and processing plants. I'll come back to that at a later time. In the case of the property tax in general, the maximum is proposed to be reduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1243	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1249	The government’s policy has as its overall objective the provision of opportunities for all, a simpler everyday life for its citizens and the continued strengthening of the social security network. The municipalities are the foundations of our society and are responsible for the production of most of our welfare services. A good municipal economy is therefore important. Demographic developments show that municipalities must continue to be prepared for major changes in the years to come. The community reform has helped to strengthen a good number of municipalities, but still we will have many small municipalities that will be vulnerable to the demands and expectations of today's society. The government parties and the Christian People's Party therefore want the regional centre grant to be maintained as an economic instrument even in future municipal mergers, and the grant to be paid as today after a national merger decision – and we propose this. The municipal sector has had a good real growth in the years of government control, and we now have the lowest number of municipalities in ROBEK since the register was established in 2001. This is a joyous and wild development. In its original budget, the government raised a real growth in free income of about 2.6 billion. kr. Following a good budgetary settlement with the Christian People's Party, the municipal sector is further strengthened. The draft budget provides room for follow-up to the action plan for the drug field and to the plan for rehabilitation and rehabilitation, as well as a strengthening of the psychological services, day-care facilities for demented persons, early school interventions and a budget of 100 million from county municipalities. kr for upgrading and renewal of the county road network. Through its years, the government has introduced and extended a number of offers and grants to low-income families. So it's important to see that it's not just the income these families themselves have, which is what they have to travel with. Also free kindergarten, free leisure activities, equipment and holidays benefit precisely these families and must be seen together with their income. Immigrant families represent the main weight of the low-income families. In the budgetary agreement between the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party, there are a number of measures to further improve the living conditions of low-income families. Child welfare is increasing for the first time since 1996, with more than 300 million. kr to the national grant scheme against child poverty, and more than 150 million is proposed. to various measures for the disadvantaged. The government has proposed allocations of approximately 220 million. kr for 2019 for a renewed and extended bet in Oslo South and signed an intention agreement for a new area bet in Oslo Middle East. In addition, the budgets of several departments provide general funding to build on developments — such as free core time in kindergarten for low-income families, the government's work on child and youth measures in larger urban communities, and the National Fund for Child Poverty. At the same time, the government is proposing to include drugs and psychiatry in local government's obligation to pay out-of-print patients. The opposition is against this. I really have to wonder why it is so important for the SV, the Center Party and the Workers' Party to continue to discriminate against some diagnoses. All patients in somatics are guaranteed follow-up in their own municipality or continued hospitalisation after completion of treatment, but if you have a diagnosis of mental health or addiction, you should not have the same safety after discharge. We all know how wrong it can be. The Progress Party voted against this unfair discrimination as the Red-Greens promoted the cooperation reform and have been against it ever since. The municipalities have known for many years that this would come, so claiming that this could cause major problems for patients and municipalities, is quite special. Have not the municipalities now rigged to take care of these patients, after so many years, I am frightened. In that case, it says a lot about how vocal these so far have been treated. The time to equalise all patient groups is over-mature. I note that the same parties were not as concerned about patients and municipalities as they even introduced the interaction reform with much shorter notices. There was some noise around the government's proposal to increase the entry point of the grant for resource-intensive services. The purpose of the scheme is to provide financial support to municipalities for those who are required to provide comprehensive health and care services. But it may seem that there is a need for clarification, given the claims and comments that the opposition is still making. These are services for which the municipalities are responsible and which they must take regardless of the grant scheme. If the State increases the proportion of municipal authorities in excess of that of those in need of service. The allocation of the resource-required user scheme has increased by nearly 4 billion. kr from 2013 to 2019. The government continues to invest in a simpler everyday life for most people by simplifying, renewing and improving the public sector. Further innovation, migration and digitisation are facilitated. The government is proposing an offensive bet on the other side of $1.7 billion. kr for new IT and digitisation measures. The framework for the co-financing mechanism for digitisation projects is also proposed. Thus, even more profitable and innovative projects will be implemented and the pace of digitisation in the public sector will be further increased. An inclusive working life and the implementation of an integration promise are important measures to meet the major challenges facing Norway. At least 5 pst. all new employees in state establishments must be persons with disabilities or holes in the CV. While there is almost equal pay for women and men at the different levels of employment in the country, there is still a higher proportion of men at the higher levels of paid employment. It is important that the State be able to attract competent and competent managers. Therefore, the State must be competitive, but it must not be wage-leading. The Progress Party expects the Council of State to follow closely the development of government management salaries. Community reform may be the most important modernisation of the public sector in 50 years. Up to now in the reform, 156 municipalities have decided that they want aggregation. For several years, municipalities have been given more and more tasks, which have to be handled with high quality – whether the municipality is very small or very large. Unfortunately, many municipalities are too small for today's tasks. Young people are learning, and they want to develop into an exciting community of work that gives them satisfaction and challenges. The smallest municipalities will therefore have an impossible task of holding youth. At the same time, they are totally dependent on these young people coming back after completed education if the municipalities are to be able to offer a good kindergarten, school and care services at the level of the rest of the country. That is why it is important and right to continue the community reform. Municipalities assessing the merger will receive support to inform and ask citizens. Joining municipalities will receive a one-off and disaggregation grants. Norway has a strong tradition of people owning their own homes. The government's goal is that most people should have the opportunity to own their own homes if they want to. That is why we are pursuing a social housing policy. And that's why property taxes are very unsocial. The progress party is very pleased with the change we have made now, and hope this is the first step on the way to winding up. For some people housing is important, and the government has therefore improved that year after year. Rates are now adjusted with price developments. Here we fixed a great weakness after the red-green conversion of the scheme in 2009. When the housing aid was relocated, the department estimated that as many as 150 000 could be eligible for housing support. This was an estimate that turned out to be too high, it wasn't a target. From 2017 onwards, the House Bank uses the last month's income when calculating housing aid. In the past, many housing aid was granted even though they had too high income because they had low income a few years earlier. For many, this was a major problem when the House Bank later had to demand the money back. The housing aid has been opened up to other forms of housing, and in this budget there will be further efforts to combat child poverty. The government provided a compensation scheme for the victims who received housing support before the impending reform came into force, and now makes it permanent. Through the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party, there was also an agreement to increase the housing allowance for lone retirement pensioners with the minimum pension, so that they would not lose the housing allowance by increasing the minimum pension by NOK 4000. It's good to have about 80 pst. the population lives in owner-occupied dwellings and a large proportion of young people also own their own dwellings. The proportion of home buyers under the age of 40 who get help from home has fallen in recent years. This shows that the government's policy is working. It's going well in Norway. Economic growth is on the rise, demand for labour has increased, and unemployment is falling. Only during the first six months of this year increased employment by 20 000 people. Through good conditions for business and strong municipalities, the government facilitates new, secure jobs and sustainable welfare municipalities throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1293	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1298	The Labour Party prioritises the large amount of money on services that citizens need in everyday life — kindergarten, school, care for the elderly and health care. The Labour Party increases the income of the municipal sector by 3.5 billion. In addition to the government's proposals in our alternative budget. We say no to big tax cuts to those who have the most, to have money for good services and make less difference. The Progress Party claims that they have a tax policy that gives people more to walk with. How is it that the Progress Party has agreed to an increased parental payment in kindergartens, with NOK 11 000 a year since 2013 for a family with two children? Does the representative of the Progress Party agree to take one hand and give with the other?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1305	I'm very happy that I represent a party that manages to give both tax cuts and better welfare to the people where they live. As far as kindergartens are concerned, what we are most proud of is that we have provided free core time in kindergarten for those who have the least, and that we have kept the nursery fee for those with low incomes very low. I have noticed in recent years that the Workers' Party has gone to battle for them with the highest income – they have had to pay little more – but for us this is about redistribution, and then those who have the least will have to pay at least.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1310	There was a lot of work within the representative's post that could require several lines, but I find reason to note two things. The first concerns the fact that this state budget is adding to a large growth in the framework of free income. If we start summing up the government's stamp policy, that is, if you think that the municipalities are going to implement, it amounts to 3.68 billion. kr after taking into account the fact that the Christian People's Party had fought resource-intensive users and changes in the framework. There is no hope that there will be a large growth in the free income of municipalities, i.e. that local adjustments will be made. What is my main concern, however, is that the representative was within the region centre grant. I wonder how the representative can defend the fact that a regional centre grant is to be paid to two municipalities that are merged and are suddenly to become a regional centre, while the other regional centres, which necessarily provide services as a regional centre, are not allowed to participate in such a grant, but are, on the contrary, being drawn into the framework of the population grant?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1319	I think I will stick to replying to the fact that we are busy facilitating a merger between municipalities. We have had some arrangements, and there are quite a number of municipalities out there who regret that they did not join the first train when it left the platform, with the good grant schemes that were then. It is therefore important for us to maintain part of those grant schemes now. We agree that the municipalities that know about these schemes should have the opportunity to join, so that we can achieve the goal of even fewer municipalities, larger municipalities and stronger municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1324	The representative was involved in mental health and packaging processes. Now the situation in specialist health services is not exactly glittering in this area. The government said they should increase more in mental health than in somatics. The result is that the somatic has increased five times more. In 2015–2016, the Minister of Health said he was not satisfied. In 2017 he said it was not good enough, and in 2018 he says he is really angry. But the Minister of Health’s mood swings do not help these patients — where there is now one of the three being rejected. In the municipal sector, it has not been possible to build up the reception apparatus that should be there. SV has proposed a bet of 300 million. kr to the municipalities, so that they could have an apparatus to receive these patients, but the Progress Party has not taken responsibility for it. With this situation in the specialist health service, how do they feel that this is going to be a good thing in the community health service?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1329	Now it wasn't the package sequence I was talking about, I was talking about integrating intoxication and mental health into the interaction reform. The golden rule, which should lead to a sharp increase in mental health in the specialist health service, has not been given the increase we wanted, but we have stopped the decline that was in mental health under the red-green government, and it is important to bring it with us. But when we took over, less than half of all the municipalities in Norway had a psychologist, which was as basic as a psychologist. That is why we have introduced grant schemes now, and all municipalities are required to have a psychologist. These grant schemes are a lot of municipalities that have been good at using, and now we've got a lot, a lot more psychologists out in the municipalities. The municipalities have known for years that these patients live with them. They seem for years to have a greater responsibility. They should have that responsibility from day one, but now they get it. Now they just have to take that responsibility and help these people, who are swing door spacers.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1334	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1339	The alternative draft budget of the Central Party allows the local government sector to maintain and further develop the services offered to its citizens and to carry out the tasks of the municipality. Overall, we strengthen the appropriations for municipalities and count on 4.6 billion. kr in relation to the government's proposal. Our priorities are the result of re-priorities in the state budget, not an overall increase in government expenditure in 2019. Unfortunately, the budget adopted here today will force many municipalities to make significant reductions in the provision of services to their citizens. KS has recently presented a budget study for 2019 which shows the economic space of the municipalities. The survey shows that expenditure is growing more than revenue in 2019. KS writes: ‘The most perceptive aspect is that the survey shows that revenue is not sufficient to finance operations in the smallest municipalities.’ I must regret to say that I do not think this found is surprising, rather worrying and expected. The study also shows that municipalities with less than 10 000 inhabitants budget higher expenditure than income and thus negative net operating surplus. These municipalities must therefore use fund reserves to finance operations, despite the fact that they have already completed painful cuts. Population trends with a decline in population and older population in small municipalities are often highlighted as the cause of the difficult economic situation of municipalities. This is obviously just a small part of the explanation. Political decisions are the main cause of tougher times for these municipalities. Changes in the income system have resulted in a deliberate transfer from small and medium-sized municipalities to the larger municipalities. The government has changed the income system so that the transfers have less income-balancing effect than before. In addition, schemes are used as regional centre grants as a financial instrument to provide for more municipal mergers, although the Stortinget has decided that the income system should not be used as an element in the continuation of the municipal reform. For me and the Central Party, changes in the keys of the income system should be objectively justified on the basis of the costs of developing an equivalent service offer to the inhabitants, irrespective of the size of the municipality and the place of residence. In its alternative budget, the Central Party has increased the municipal framework by 2.4 billion. in addition to the government's proposal and has allocated this money according to criteria applicable until 2016, with equal basic grants to all, so that it provides the basis for equivalent services to all citizens. The government's budget will provide tighter frameworks for municipalities and county municipalities next year. The free income of municipalities is said to increase by 2.6 billion. NOK, but when tied expenses are deducted, nothing is said or said. Several older people who depend on municipal services, interest rate increases, new school and kindergarten staffing standards, reduced income through property taxes, etc. is imposed by the government, which provides a much tighter municipal economy next year. The KS study shows that 80 pst. by the municipalities, the enhanced pedagogical standards and staffing standards in kindergartens are not fully financed for their part. Taking into account all the increased costs and reduced revenue, it's not much to boast about in this year's run. I think it is worrying that changes in the income system and changed tasks and economic premises make it impossible for us to be sure that all the citizens of the country receive the same services. Equalising geographical and social differences between people and between large and small municipalities has served Norway well for a long time, and it is worrying that they are now deliberately adding up to major differences. Regional and regional development appropriations have certainly not been among the winners under the current government. The appropriations are more than halved from the 2014 red-green budget proposal and until this proposal we are considering today. Only in this year's budget has the appropriations been reduced by 223 million. kr. It's a dramatic development. The role of the county council as a regional development actor has been severely weakened as a result of the budget cuts. I have to say that the government's claim that they work to strengthen the county council's role is very bad with the budget. Not only are the preconditions for responding to today's tasks reduced, but the role of community developers and regional development actors is absolutely impossible to implement when there are no tools in the toolbox. It was the feedback from all the county councils that was at the hearing. Today, they need to re-prioritize in order to achieve a minimum in this area at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1365	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1371	As the representative Trellevik said in his speech, the Right will ensure growth across the country. It requires a broad commitment to what is the basis for people to live in all of Norway: a business that takes care of and creates new profitable jobs. This involves investing in tried-and-tested instruments that we know work: clustering programmes, business networks, corporate loan and grant schemes in the districts, mentoring schemes for entrepreneurs, bioeconomy schemes and business-garden programmes – and not least a great commitment to commerce, tax-free and differentiated employer fees, to mention something. I would like to know why the representative does not listen to what people and business demand in the districts rather than to strengthen a system of regional development funds, which is largely sought by the county municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1378	When I'm around – in my district at least, I come from a district municipality in Trøndelag – the feedback from the founders I meet is that this would never have been possible if they didn't have the help of the county municipality through the regional development funds, this job would never have been created if they hadn't got it in place. It doesn't help to say that a rate of e.g. traffic if you see what has happened in Trøndelag. The treadmill is one of the most important steps to get the industry to develop in the new treadmill, it was a prerequisite for the merger that we should bind the county closer together. Until today there are only created jobs at the bakery in Trøndelag, because I do not know how many times it has been celebrated, but we still miss the start-up grant. Well, well, one thing is, but we really miss something that we're looking at again in District Norway. Then I'm talking especially about Inland Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1383	After five years of civil government, we've seen that things are going well in the districts. We see that the government's policy works, that unemployment goes down and that optimism is back. We see that the city and the village are linked by a large journey promise with increased appropriations for transportation of 75 pst. We're moving out twice as many government jobs as the previous one, the red-green government. And where the red-greens said no to local initiative, we say yes. I continue to wonder and would like the representative to respond: Does the Centre feel that it is most important for housing and value creation in Norway with a good market access, a good transport infrastructure, or is it the regional development funds that are the main tool for local businesses and the development of the business community in the districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1390	Now it's not like the values in District Norway are created on E6. As a general rule, a country route shall be used to enter E6. The center party now has 1 billion. kr more in the budget than the government for upgrading county roads. If we are to be able to exploit the district values and get them into the market, the representative Benestad must vote in favour of the budget of the Central Party. This is in addition to the fact that we have a strong commitment to regional policy instruments. We haven't really gotten up on the red-green level, but we're of course going back there when we get back to the government offices. However, there is a link between infrastructure and regional policy development funds. And not least, if you had stopped cutting down district jobs in the fur industry, in the food industry, etc., it would also have been a great support to District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1395	SV has several suggestions in this setting, including in the case of housing aid, which I am very disappointed that the Centre Party does not support, but also the proposals on resource-intensive services. Last year we agreed that there was a need to review the scheme, because it was tightened up on many expenses that municipalities actually have. Especially after the interaction reform, municipalities get sicker and sicker patients, who require a higher and higher level of competence, almost in line with a small hospital. We're asking that this be reviewed now, and that there be an opportunity here in the municipal proponent. The second is the proposal to put in place a system for those over 67. It's not like these are people who get healthy when they get 67; they like to get sicker. The cost is also high, and they are also entitled to have a reasonably safe and reasonable life at the same time. What is the reason why the Centre Party will not be involved in extending the regime for particularly resource-intensive services to them over 67 years of age?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1404	I have a lot of understanding of the problem that the representative here is raising, and it's true that she says they won't be healthy even if they're 67 years old, but they're losing the status of so-called resource-intensive users. Now this is a huge resource-intensive issue, of course, and whether it's these single users, or whether it's all we're going to spend the resources on, we're going to be part of a discussion. In the case of the housing aid scheme, the Centre Party will vote in favour of the proposal to grant the same access to housing aid to the disabled, regardless of their disability. We have prioritised that in our alternative budget, and we believe that that is very important to be put in place. With regard to the second housing aid proposal, I have a great deal of understanding and the sense of that proposal as well. Unfortunately, we have not found funds for that in our alternative budget, and then I do not feel it is right to vote for this in the Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1413	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1418	The left has always worked to ensure that the citizens of the municipalities, small and large, know a closeness to decisions. Local populace know best local conditions. That's why we're following our whole way that as many decisions as possible should be made by people they affect. Municipalities want to give priority to important issues for their citizens in the issues at stake. It is about giving municipalities the freedom to choose what is necessary. Such priorities are different from the municipality to the municipality. It is important to give them an economic space that opens up to it. In the 2019 budget, one is adding up to it. At the same time, it is said that there are municipalities out there that will provide better services to their inhabitants, who have not joined their neighbours. Not only will exciting plans for pooling funds be triggered in the 2019 budget, the regional grant of 200 million. kr has also been mentioned earlier. Merging also opens up a completely different way of improving efficiency. Money saved on paperwork and bureaucracy are money that benefits citizens directly in terms of services and offers. It's going well in Kommune-Norge. It's worth reminding the opposition that a claim doesn't become more true if one repeats it often enough, and now I think they've certainly begun to believe in it themselves as well. That is why I have to repeat: in the 2019 budget, one is adding up to more growth in the local economy, with a real growth in free revenues of 2.6 billion. kr and an additional strengthening with an excellent budgetary settlement with the Christian People's Party. At the same time, I can refer to increased income for municipalities, and we believe that it is a strength in the budget that the increase takes place without one increasing the taxes. However, the opposition's response is the opposite: it is set up to increase taxes in order to generate growth in the local economy. Innovation Norway's 2017 report shows that so much support has never been given to businesses and entrepreneurs. Many of these are well located far outside the Oslo pot. These are hardworking people who create jobs in the districts. The government believes it is absolutely necessary to facilitate sustainable districts and the possibility of living throughout the country. I can assure you that I have met many of these entrepreneurs and small businesses and visited them. I've seen how these people create enthusiasm locally. And yes, some of them also make a few dollars. It gives jobs to many, many people who also earn it. These are the so-called empires that the left-hand side would like to tax even harder, but which create jobs and not least carry a great deal of personal risk. One does not vote when the opposition wants to tax those who share in creating precisely these jobs. The government reduces corporation tax and property taxes. We immediately put behind us a year that I believe is in the signs of good and bad regional reform. We have put in place fewer and stronger municipalities across the country, and not least combined counties, which are now ready to receive new and exciting tasks. Today there is a lot of good economy in it. Aggregation is to make it more efficient. At the same time, we have had to fight against parties and politicians who do not take decisions adopted by the body of which they are part. Debates on voting on the coercion of counties have been held at regular intervals in this Chamber. The municipal budget is comprehensive, and it is forward-looking reading for many good purposes. The time is too short to go deep on them all, but right now we see that the government is delivering on this field. It's a joyous districtist. Finally, I must express my joy at the fact that the Storting is now asking the government to look further at how the capital costs can be covered in connection with the holiday relief scheme. I'm looking forward to putting in place a system in connection with the municipal bill 2020. It's an important matter for me and for the Left, and it's been a long time. I also think it will be very important to make the structures in the districts work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1435	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1440	It was once that the Left was concerned with district policy, that people could live the good life whether they lived in the city or in the countryside. But now it's tax cuts to the richest, to the 1 pst. Richest. The thousand richest alone get 1.3 million. kr in tax cuts each, and the 10 pst. The richest gets 40 pst. of the personal tax code(s). That's the reality with the Left. Rather, the Labour Party will give priority to municipalities and well-being to ordinary people. What we see, is that after the left came into the government, the municipal structure of the government has become even worse. What kind of breakthrough is it really left gets – except for Council posts, then?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1447	I think it's interesting to get that kind of question. I started from home this morning – I was at the municipal government meeting last night – at 1 p.m. 03:30 to reach an aeroplane that left at 3.30 p.m. 06.30. Some of us probably live more in the district than the representative might be familiar with. It's a paradox, because we now transferred to the coastal communities 2.3 billion. kr. If it's not to take the districts seriously, with the relationship we've had, I don't know the jam. But the representative knows better than me there. It is possible that some of us who come from the districts see what has been the needs. The government that sits has provided a clear response to these needs, including on transportation – because it must be possible to make money in District Norway, and because it is important for us to have housing there.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1455	The representative of Skelstad is happy to use big words without necessarily having cover for it, and he will of course be allowed to do so, but I find reason to point out that when he believes that some of the representatives here in the Chamber have no respect for the decisions that are taken, and therefore should not be able to operate what I am going to adopt the representative calls political countermeasures, we are a little out of the way to drive. Because that's what politics is about: making priorities and changing what you think is a system that works, maybe not working. In this context, I would like to ask the representative: the State provided funding for speedboats through changes to the county income system, which the representative was also involved in. Now I register that the representative's party no longer wants it. Is it such that the representative of Skjelstad will support a proposal from the Central Party to get a new, comprehensive review of the boat routes for the coastal regions?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1462	I think it's interesting, what Nordlund's representative said at the beginning here, that all politics are rematched. It doesn't do it for me. For my part, it's all about looking forward. But I realize that in many ways it's mantra in the Center Party. It is gratifying, to this extent, that they are fighting back on things they have done before – that they now want to give more money to the county roads, which they did not do when they transferred the national roads in 2008 in their regional reform. We've had to give priority. That is why we have said that we are doing some cuts in regional development funds, which I agree with to the extent is important. But if we are to get ahead, it is very important to get roads, and I thought that the representative Nordlund – who has been the County Council for Transport in Northernland – could agree. So finally, to the representative of Nordlund: Yes, of course, we said all the time that we were going to get back to parts of the keys in the income system. We've been saying that all along.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1471	The representative from the Left tells a completely false story about SV's tax policy. We want more grants and also tax relief for investors and entrepreneurs, those who are engaged in innovation, when they have little income. But when they have millions and billions of income and heavy properties, we believe that they should contribute more to the community. I'm recording that Left means the opposite. I wonder how the Left can justify that one of the measures that the government itself proves to be more and better effective, more jobs and more earnings than others, is cut by over one billion, namely regional policy instruments. I wonder if the representative has read it and knows how much higher these are, both in terms of value creation and the number of new jobs in the districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1478	It is probably a little shorter since I joined the county council than the representative from SV, so much water has probably been clean since then, but I think, as I also said to the representative Nordlund, that you also have to want, could and must give priority, which I have always understood is not SV's strongest side. But then it's like if we're going to be able to create jobs as well, we can't really treasure them. What is being created now, not least on the coast, just shows the importance of our making arrangements, and that the municipalities are making arrangements. We're willing to make it possible to make money, which in turn gives jobs. All the jobs can't be in the public sector, even if Andersen's representative might think so.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1485	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1490	Everything happens in a municipality. Most of the basic welfare goods that we so much appreciate in everyday life and boast about in speeches are funded by the municipalities' economy. This means that this part of the state budget is more central than most people are aware of. The budget procedure of the Municipal Committee is well seen by many as a humiliating exercise, and that may be something in it. But people just need to know how important this depression is to their everyday lives and lives. In the last few years, the government has largely delivered positive, nutritious and, not least, predictable frameworks to the local government sector. That's good. In fact, the government has shamed many gloomy predictions in the municipal field. It has been in conjunction with the Left, until they entered the Government, and with the Christian People's Party. A budget is not just money. There is also the possibility of prioritising within the framework given, and the quality objectives to be used for welfare production in the municipal sector, as is known. Although the number of municipalities is strongly decreasing, there are different framework conditions in the different municipalities, and the municipalities have different needs – it is not just talking about money, it is also talking about what quality we should have on services, and how we should create a system not to make it millimetre-like, but to make it similar. We're glad we got 325 million in the budget deal. kr, which means that the top-level funding scheme for resource-intensive services is not weakened. Unfortunately, in recent years it has been weakened, and it has been weakened more than enough. We are painfully aware that there is an expensive system that both this government and the red-green government in their time had proposed weakening of. But to say it popular: this goes to a good cause. This is about financing the provision of multi-disabled, severely damaged and others with a need for a high level of public assistance with their challenges. It's about people who really need a policy in a municipality that's significant in budgets. In fact, privacy considerations were a contributing factor in the implementation of the scheme. In many smaller municipalities, it was simply unworthy when many knew or could reason that the offers were given to specific users, perhaps the cause of cutbacks in other sectors. The Christian People's Party has criticised the government for the cuts in regional development funds over the previous years. We just have to admit from this pulpit that this time we have not succeeded in strengthening this either in the budgetary negotiations. However, we assume that sufficient funding will be allocated to the county municipalities in the state budget for 2020 to fulfil their role as regional development actors – not least it is incredibly important in these merger periods. The framework for municipalities is quite good – with a focus on nightlife. The growth of free income is eaten up in many municipalities by demography, changes, increased pension obligations and good intentions embedded in the budget and in the conciliation, but which equally fully contribute to the fact that free income is not fully free. But again, the situation in Kommune-Norway has generally improved year by year. That's the way it has to keep going. They are our foremost welfare provider, and in order to say what Vømmöl Spellmannslag says, ‘It’s not the time that comes to sea.’ That’s why we have to continue the good job.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1509	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1514	I fully agree with the representative Bransdal that it is in the municipalities that it happens. Both Bransdal and the undersigned have been part of the local democracy before we entered this beautiful house, and we know how important the municipalities are to provide good kindergarten, school and care for the elderly. Then, of course, the reality is that the state budget for 2019 has had the worst trend in free income since 2005. Is not the Christian People’s Party concerned that it will go beyond the welfare services offered to the inhabitants, both in the cities and in the districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1519	As I said in my post, it is of course worrying that the free income goes down, but I have to admit from this pulpit that the Christian People's Party has been involved in binding some of these free resources. Then I can refer to the teaching norm, where we got very good results yesterday by the fact that the municipalities are largely ready to take over and do this job, and that is the prerequisite for good welfare. So one has to see things a little bit in context. Well, the dream is to have a totally free framework, so that local politicians could dispose of it, but we big-time politicians are probably a bit too governance for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1524	The Christian People's Party has a proposal here together with the government parties where they ask the government to maintain the regional centre grant as an economic tool for getting more municipal mergers. It is a grant that gives very different opportunities to produce services for a municipality that is a regional centre and will have several tens of millions less to produce services for, and a municipality that becomes a regional centre after it is merged. During the examination of Document 8:2 S one year ago, the Christian People's Party with the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre were on the following decision: ‘The government asks the government to assume that the income system of the municipalities should ensure equivalent opportunities to develop welfare services for the inhabitants and not be used as an element in the continuation of the municipal reform.’ How does this relate?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1538	It is very well connected in our view, at least, because the context in which this regional centre grant stands is actually to maintain what was promised when the municipal mergers were to be, it should not be a subsidy to all municipalities in Norway. And it's possible to stimulate voluntary community mergers. I stress ‘voluntary community mergers’, because that is what it said there. Finally, in the case of the income system, we decided last year that it should be evaluated during this ageing period.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1548	The Christian People's Party has now entered into a budgetary settlement where they have also used the falling number of people qualifying for housing support to balance the budget. It has happened for several years, and it comes from the fact that fewer and fewer people qualify for housing support. It's because the entry criteria are too low, so a lot of families that almost don't have money don't qualify for housing support. Therefore, the SV has made two proposals to this effect, both that those who have been disadvantaged since the adoption of the scheme should be able to receive housing support and that the gap that has arisen because these parameters have not been regulated so that many fall out. The basis of having a safe life is to have a home, and the housing support will help with that. What is the reason why the Christian People's Party does not support SV in that the housing support now needs to be adjusted to fill the role it was supposed to have?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1555	I believe that all the representatives of the various parties sitting in this Chamber know that a budget debate is giving and taking. I was also so honest with the pulpit that I was inside things that we didn't get. We have not got to this either. I also refer to the contribution of the representative, Mr Kjöna Kjos, who well described the situation underpinning the budgetary agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1560	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1565	It's going well in Norway. After several years of falling oil prices and increasing unemployment, we have seen skilled employees, managers and owners change and become more competitive in recent years. Unemployment is lower than in many years, and more industries, especially in the districts, are growing. We are also lucky to live in a country where there is a high level of trust between citizens and the public sector. And the public sector in Norway is big. It provides services to all the inhabitants, from cradle to grave. But we can't take this trust for granted – it's not obvious. We must constantly provide new services, more efficient services, reliable services and a public sector that puts users at the centre. We are now going into a time when the public action space is getting tighter. Then we have to make sure that the public sector, as the business community has done in recent years, changes as development progresses. In order to cope with that change, we have to make sure that the municipalities have the tools they need. Since 2013, municipalities have experienced growth. Horror propaganda about the starving of the municipalities has been put to shame. There are record few municipalities in the ROBEK register. Also in 2019, we are adding to a growth in the municipal sector. Following the budgetary agreement, the growth of free revenues is estimated at about 2.4 billion. kr. Children’s home, school, health and care are strengthened, and in addition, the area of resource-intensive users is strengthened. In May, the government presented the municipal proposal for 2019. Here we point out some clear challenges for Kommune-Norway: Only 14 pst. of municipalities with less than 5000 inhabitants have psychologists, and only half of these municipalities have ergoterapeut. Just 13 pst. of these municipalities have a lawyer. Two out of three municipalities say they have poor or rather poor capacity to deal with legal issues. This is about the legal certainty of the citizens. Bufdir is concerned about 27 child protection services that have three or fewer employees. All of these were in municipalities with less than 3000 inhabitants. We have to take this seriously. Let me point to two important initiatives: for 2019 we have the greatest focus on digitisation. We're proposing to spend over $1.7 billion. kr for new IT and digitisation measures. This effort shall be built under a modern, innovative and efficient public administration. The population shall be provided with services that are simple to use, efficient and reliable. For municipalities, new digital solutions mean that employees are released for other necessary tasks. The second is about community reform. When I travel around the country, I meet municipalities working together on fire protection, working together on recruitment to the municipalities and working together on culture. In several places, municipalities seem to be able to cooperate on most of it – except for the municipality building. We have to do something about that. It doesn't go away – because the challenges don't go away. We need stronger municipalities that can provide citizens with the services they require and that they expect to receive. In the future, particular attention will be paid to the smallest municipalities. They are most vulnerable when the population is ageing and there is a shortage of labour and employment in municipalities. Therefore, we propose to have good and long-term economic instruments: Joining municipalities receive a lump sum once the merger has been agreed. The breakdown grant compensates for losses of basic grants and decreases in district grants. Municipalities assessing the bundling of municipalities should also be supported in informing and asking citizens about the policy choice. The government has been working for five years to renew, simplify and improve the public sector. By making the public sector more modern and efficient, we ensure sustainable well-being for the future. Our ambition is that Norway should have the world's best digital services and a public sector that facilitates innovation and innovation. It adds up to 2019 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1613	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1618	In the Workers' Party we are busy using the strong communities also in the municipalities where people live. I agree with the Council of State that the municipalities in practice provide services every day to all the inhabitants of this country. But despite the boasts of both the government councils and other representatives of the government parties, the figures from the government itself show that the growth of the free revenues was higher on average under the government of Stoltenberg II than under the Solberg government. If we see 2018 and 2019 in the context, there is a real decline in the free income of the municipalities according to figures from the government. How can the Council of State, after boasting of the importance of the municipalities, defend cutting off the free income of the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1623	The calculation from 2005 to 2018 shows that the red-green government had about the same growth, 0.6 pst., as this government has had. If you're satisfied with your own budgets, I guess you're also satisfied with this government's budget. There are two important differences, however, for in the last four years, municipalities have had very good tax access, and in the last two years, money has also been distributed from the Maritime Fund to 160 municipalities. This means that the municipal budgets have been considerably more liberal than they were under the red-green. When Sivertsen refers to the next year's calculations, the percentage calculation is that when the share of tax revenue increases, the share of transfers from the country decreases. It doesn't mean less money from the state, but the total share is getting smaller. The municipalities get more money, we're going to enjoy that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1632	I am very happy that you get money from the Maritime Fund. After all, it is primarily taxes and income from business that are transferred. So it's not money that the government grants. They also have the same weakness as VAT revenue: it is totally unpredictable. You can't count on income you don't know if you get it, because it'll be contrary to municipal law. The state council knows that well. In terms of the calculations, I'm based on the numbers that the government has informed me. They show us that the average growth of the free revenues under the government of Stoltenberg II was 1.8 pst. and under the government of Solberg from 2013 to 2019 1,3 pst. If you see the figures in context, the growth rate is negative for 2018–2019. This leads, for example, to: that Bodø, whose party has obtained a majority from the Council of State together with the other government parties and the Christian People's Party for a budget, chooses to cut child protection services and retain property taxes. That's how difficult they seem to be for the local economy. So why not give priority to the municipal sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1639	If you repeat something, it's not going to be right. I disagree with the description and the number material the representative uses. Until 2018, the trend has been the same in percentage terms. I agree that tax income and income from the Maritime Fund are disposable income, but it is incomes that are equally full. This is money that the municipalities have received. What the representative asked me about was the economic space in the last few years. It's been better than under the red-green, because you've had higher incomes. So it's also the municipality that's going to make choices and priorities. That's the whole point of local autonomy. It is unfortunately also so that while some municipalities are very good at setting up their services and are very effective, there are many who are not. We got sad numbers just a week ago from the Centre for Economic Analysis, which shows that efficiency, which was on the way up from 2013 to 2017, is on the way down to the municipalities. So there's good room for action to make priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1648	There's a difference between the municipalities around. It should be, for the municipalities around are managed by those elected to the local government. They have different assumptions — very different assumptions — but they also have different challenges. Some people do the problems well, and some people might do the problems badly -- I leave it to the people who choose them to decide, and they won't assess it from here. I understand that we do not agree on the number material from the government and the Ministry of Finance, so we will have to settle it another time. But let me then ask another question to the Council of State. We agree that the Maritime Fund and VAT revenue are money that is not known. The problem of counting it into the local economy – I agree that there will be more money, and that is good – is that you cannot plan for it. You can't hire a teacher, you can't hire an assistant because you don't know if you get the income. Doesn't the Council see that this is a problem? When it comes to managing a healthy and sustainable local economy, you can't plan for money you don't know about. It also limits the possibility of developing operational tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1655	I fully agree with municipal autonomy, and I fully agree that it is the municipalities that have to provide the services they provide, for the priorities they make, and for the tax decision they make. We're going to be able to relate to every four years when it's a choice. So I fully agree. I perceive that the representative makes it a problem that tax revenue has been increased in the municipalities. It's not -- it's very good. But we fully agree that one should not plan for one-off income, nor have I ever said that. It's good that you've got it, you have the opportunity to prioritize, but you shouldn't rely on it. You're going to have to rely on the municipal regulations that we're making here. They think I've been good. It is also good for the next year – there is a good room for action to prioritise services for our citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1663	One of the things you should be aware of when discussing the policy solutions you have chosen is at least that you have a common description of reality and a common understanding of the challenges. Not least, it's important that you have common numbers to deal with. By 2 November, the Minister of Finance could not respond to the estimated average growth of free income for Norwegian municipalities next year with the State budget submitted. I find that remarkable and worth staying by. At the same time, this state council is standing here and telling us about the growth in both dollars and in percentages. There's no context in that. Now it's been four to five weeks, and now you're going to be able to answer those questions that you couldn't answer a little while ago. I get a little worried when I hear the Council of State talk about free incomes and spaces of action. Can I understand the Council of State so that she does not believe that the municipalities should follow up the wishes of the majority of the population and the government in their priorities in the area of free income?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1672	I don't know what's unclear about the numbers I've used. I have explained this both in connection with the financial situation and today. The real growth in free revenues for next year is estimated to be 0,6 pst. Municipalities may give priority to this space of action, and the municipalities should do so. Then we have action plans. We have action plans for intoxication, rehabilitation, rehabilitation – we have it in a number of areas. Of course, the municipality should deal with this. But they have a freedom to make priorities. There are simply some municipalities that have been very good at betting, e.g. to teachers at school. There are some municipalities that have been very nice to bet on the escalating plan for intoxication. They may use the funds they receive in a different way from other municipalities. But there's going to be a room for action here to make priorities. So Stortinget has also adopted denominations to make sure that the money comes in the right place. I'm among those who think we should have the least possible earrings, but we have to deal with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1679	As the Council of State said, trust depends on feeling and being part of the community. Now this government has distributed 1.4 billion. kr to the country’s 0.1 pst. richest without making a single claim or that it's the only proof that there's going to be a single job out of it. They cut into the instruments where they're writing that it gives more jobs, it gives better profit. It's just that it's not in the center, as this government thinks everything should do. And it's cut in the housing stock, what's the security for the family. NOK 134 000 is now the average household income for those receiving housing support. Does the Council of State think it is a good contribution to the trust of the disadvantaged in society when they have to pay the feast to the economic elite who supports the Right?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1686	For over four years, I have traveled the country and the beach around. I've visited businesses in the city and the countryside – a lot of small, many medium-sized businesses. I've visited an incredible number of entrepreneurs. This idea that the rich are getting richer, and that we're distributing money, it has to end. We don't distribute money. We sit all the time and manage the money we get, thanks to the fact that someone will create in this community. I just get quite upset when I hear this. I have met industrial companies that collect money from their company to pay taxes on wealth, which do it instead of investing in machinery. I have met entrepreneurs who have not taken a penny in wages, who have not taken a penny in dividends, but who on paper have large incomes, and who pay taxes on wealth and are deeply, deeply despaired. I've been to Ulsteinvik and met companies that pay property taxes on operations, while the neighboring company, which is foreign owned, does not. In fact, you have to start talking to the business that creates businesses, which ensure employment, instead of sending the bill for own allocations to the same companies all the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1691	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1696	The largest single effort made by the Labour Party in the 2019 budget is the municipalities. That's what the Workers' Party does because we've listened to KS. We've listened to the performances of individual municipalities. We've listened to the county councils, and we've listened to other organisations that have a good understanding of how municipalities are doing their tasks and the challenges that municipalities have. Those tasks and challenges are quite formidable. If the municipalities are to be able to do the tasks they are assigned to do, it must be an economic foundation that holds, and that is such that you can look at a number of tasks in the long term. Therefore, the Working Party chooses to add 3.5 billion. kr more into the municipalities than the government chose to do. There is no small amount of money, and the feedback from the municipalities is that this would contribute very well to the provision of care, school, health, business development, road, culture and leisure. Therefore, it is worrying – I use that word – when the government parties, together with the Christian People's Party, choose to sell into a municipal budget that is actually a budget for the municipalities, as a fat bet on the municipalities. In my view, the current government has not submitted a draft budget where it has invested heavily in the municipalities. On the contrary, many municipalities experience cuts and ringings, which do not necessarily lead to better services, and which do not result in local government having its own resources and bets. We hear, as I said, that there has never been so much money, and it's so great, you sell in this budget. But then I have to repeat the question that I asked in the reply with the representative Trellevik: why is it that in the last four years very many municipalities have had to introduce property taxes? There are many rapporteurs from the Right and the Advance Party who introduce property taxes in their municipalities, and then the question is, do they do it just because they want to plague their citizens? I did not get a good answer in the reply. Whales, Eidsberg and Hamar are run by Progress Party and Right-Rapporteurs and are given an example of the property tax. When one of these rapporteurs was asked why it was property tax, the answer was that without that tax there would be a standstill in the municipality. That was the answer: standstill. So, of course, the right-wing rapporteurs around the country have understood what the government parties and the Christian People's Party have not understood: one cannot drive a municipality seriously and long-term by betting on disposable income that is still to come. It's a challenge, it was also the Council of State within. You can't do long-term, serious planning with unforeseeable disposable income. It happens year after year, so either the Minister of Finance and the Council of Municipalities do not have control of their models for how to charge taxes, or it is with the knowledge and the will that you lay down at a low level, so that you can afterwards boast that the municipalities went with great profits, which they obviously cannot plan for their operations. If we are to take the municipalities seriously, as the Workers' Party does, the appropriations must be increased. We're increasing by 3.5 billion. in addition to the Government's proposals. So a little bit over to the Sameting, which is also inside this setting. There has been a new budgetary arrangement, and that is good. What is not good is that the level of the budget for the Sameting does not hold. It's simply that the whole thing is actually experiencing a cut budget from the government. If we are to take the Sameting seriously, those appropriations should be increased. It contains important issues, such as the development and preservation of Sami languages, culture, Sami industries, Sami schools and kindergartens. The Labour Party is increasing this budget line by 88 million. kr, most of it directly to the Sameting, so that they can do their own priorities, as the new financial instrument was intended to be. The merger itself has made it clear that a strengthening of the budget is necessary. I am very proud and happy that the Workers' Party is able to follow it up. All in all, a budget for municipalities, counties and Assets is adopted today, which the stakeholders largely report back to them is a budget cut. There's a cut budget out there. With the financial possibilities available to the government, it shouldn't have been like this. But it is, and the government and the Christian People's Party themselves must take full responsibility for it, and they must not blame property taxes and increased municipal taxes on the municipalities. It's too easy, it's simply not nice to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1717	In 2014, the Norwegian economy experienced a shock. When the oil price fell below $40, there was no doubt that the financial crisis was a light breeze compared to the challenges facing the Norwegian economy. The government led an expansive policy to ensure that more people got to work. More money was allocated to build roads and railways. It was researched as never before. People and businesses have been allowed to keep a little more of their own money. And the simplification work has speeded up and saved Norwegian business for billions of dollars. The result of government policy is that we have the lowest unemployment rate in ten years, and it is particularly low in the districts. The result is that we have a competitive business that contributes billions of income to the state fund every year. It is mainly because of the workers, entrepreneurs and business owners who get up in the morning and go to work, that we have these increased revenues. It's thanks to people who have shown that they can turn their heels and solve the challenges in other ways than before. The public sector has to make the same recognition as the private sector had to make after the oil crisis. The action space in the Norwegian economy will be smaller. Oil and gas revenues will fall. And the tax money we charge needs to be used smarter. We have to get more back for less, and then we have to think new. Digitalisation, automation and artificial intelligence provide us with opportunities for new industries that can contribute to the state budget. But equally important is that it also helps us to find savings in the state budget. The digitisation of the public sector will create a simpler everyday life for citizens, businesses and employees. It will release resources to other areas, and it is also important to increase the innovation power and productivity of the public sector. In this budget, the government parties and the Christian People's Party are delivering the greatest commitment to digitisation. One, seven, bn. kr to digitisation measures are important for those in need of child protection assistance. It is important for all those who are in contact with Nav, for those who are planning to expand a new residential area or for those who are receiving health care — to mention someone. It is also very important for Norwegian municipalities, but it is clear that we have a way to go. The co-financing mechanism for digitisation projects shall ensure the implementation of profitable, small and medium-sized digitisation projects. The system has been a huge success. From 2016 to 2018, the co-financing scheme has committed a total of 336 million. SEK to 40 projects. But these 336 million. kr, which has been used, provides a potential savings for the public for a total of 7 billion. DKK over 10 years. Simplification, modernisation and digitisation of the public sector show us that we can manage to get back more for less just allow ourselves to think new. But it is not just innovation that is needed to ensure that tax money is used as best as possible. This government has ensured that we have solved the unnecessary bureaucracy. Through the red tape reform, which continues in this state budget, we release billions of dollars annually from unnecessary red tape for services. If Norwegian municipalities had had the same efficiency objective as the state, significant funds could also be released in the municipalities, which could go from paper transfer to service provision. The whole of this budget takes our welfare society in a more sustainable direction, where we get more for each taxpayer, where it is facilitated so that business can create more, which is the most important thing to ensure that we can sit in this hall and distribute benefits and burdens. It is also essential to create good welfare societies precisely because our cities and towns do not live by subsidies. They actually live from jobs. I am also pleased that the government's budget is adopted today, because the alternative is so incredibly much worse. The alternative is parties on the left who believe that increasing money use is the solution, regardless of what the problem is, and do not realize that increasing use of the money bag is something that has to be billed for – and it is the Norwegian business community that does.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1740	A place to live at an affordable price is crucial to being able to live a life of independence and good living. The working party believes that as many as possible should own their own home and that it should be of good quality. It is therefore an important political task to facilitate the construction of adequate housing. The dwelling should be a place to live, not a speculation object. The difference between renting and owning owner-occupied dwellings is becoming one of the greatest inequalities in society. With today's housing prices, first-time buyers struggle to get into the housing market and buy their own home. Those who can afford to buy a dwelling sooner than before. BSU is a good arrangement for those who have good finances and money left over, but BSU does not work to meet the housing needs of all young people. The quarter that earns least is less tax credit for BSU saving than the quarter that earns most. Among the young people with the highest income and young people from high-income families, most are found to save the maximum amount of the scheme. The SSB report Housing and housing conditions show that the proportion of owner-occupiers in low-income households – owner-occupiers – has fallen by 10 percentage points in the last 15 years. First-time starters are getting older. Fewer persons receiving housing support own the owner-occupiers. This is what we politicians have to take for granted. Once again, the government has reduced the lending framework in the House Bank and with the weakened House Bank as a housing policy tool. We do not support a reduction of the House Bank and believe it is necessary to increase the framework to the House Bank by 9 billion. kr and to raise the loan framework to 25 billion. kr in our alternative budget. Housing is essential for people with low incomes to obtain or maintain a home. The problem is both increased housing prices in cities and that there are many thousands fewer qualified to receive housing support compared to the past. In our alternative budget, therefore, housing aid is increased by 100 million. kr. The government has weakened the housing support, so that almost 300 million were paid in 2017. kr less in housing aid than in 2013. This goes beyond the very weakest of us. In the Workers' Party's alternative state budget for 2019, we are increasing the funds for the region's efforts by 60 million. kr in relation to the government's proposal. That's $45 million. SEK to Oslo South bet, Groruddalssatsingen and Oslo Inner East bet and SEK 15 million. kr for area initiatives in areas with living conditions challenges in other major cities, including the Drammen of 4.4 million. kr. Many of those growing up in these areas grow up in poor families. These are families who cannot always afford to send their children to football training, cinema or vacations. The Workers' Party has for a long time been a driving force for regional initiatives in vulnerable areas facing living conditions challenges. The right has been a brake block in the Groruddalen bet. And now they're coming back and forth as if they're having a powerful bet. In Oslo, we have had good results with the organisation Urban Mothers, which helps women to participate in their own business. Many municipalities have contacted the organisation to obtain similar projects outside Oslo. To get to just that, we want to allocate 2.5 million. kr to the City Councillors, so that several municipalities can participate in their working methods. I hope the government can join in and support this organisation in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1757	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1762	It may be good to remind the representative Holm Lønneth that the municipalities are already working very efficiently today. But if the Right answer to the employees is that now you're going to run even faster, it's not the good signal to give. And then the representative has to remember that business is also concerned with good municipalities, because that's a prerequisite for us to have business throughout the country. If we are to expand the welfare community, Norway must invest in the municipalities. Citizens and employees must be sure that we invest in the community. That guarantee is given to them by the Workers' Party. But the guarantee they receive from today's government is the worst growth in free income since 2005. In a time when, for example, must expand the care of the elderly, the government chooses to give priority to all, the richest. The numbers are clear, the thousand richest in this country gets 1.3 million. kr in tax cuts each. The 10 pst. The richest gets 40 pst. of the personal tax code(s). We have a government that is busy building the economic elite and not the common people and the community. The working party wants strong communities and wants to bet on the community. In Buskerud, Norwegian Nurses' Association published new figures this week, showing a huge undercover of nurses in the municipalities. Nursing is not sought, but unskilled skills are acquired when nurses are in sick leave or on leave. I want to thank the Nurses' Association for having done that survey, because it is important that the municipalities take it seriously, and it is important that this big business takes it seriously. For nursing skills, medical follow-up of users and patients is concerned, and when that competence is not present, care quality is compromised. We need to motivate more people to learn about health and care, which we depend on because there are more older people in this country, and also the young people are concerned about hearing that you have a big deal and municipalities that want to invest in them, so that they do not go home with a bad conscience, and that there are not strong enough professional environments out in the municipalities. The Labour Party takes this concern seriously. We strengthen the municipal economy significantly compared to the government, and for Buskerud alone it will amount to 144 million. If our budget was adopted. This means 192 more nurses that municipalities could have prioritised giving care to the elderly, giving good care to the inhabitants and making sure that the newly educated know that there are strong professional environments in the municipalities – that they get the financial muscles needed to provide good services to the inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1773	Through the budget we will adopt today, we will facilitate sustainable municipalities – welfare municipalities. Governments will ensure growth across the country and bet on what provides a basis for people to live and live throughout Norway: new, safe jobs. Through participation in the world of work and value creation, we lay the basis for the well-being of which we all enjoy. If we do not change today – yes, then we do not deliver on what is our prime obligation, to ensure the well-being of future generations. Then we need to provide good conditions in business, for modernisation and digitisation, and for strong municipalities that provide a good service to the citizens. A good rural policy is also about better cooperation between enterprises and public institutions in cities and rural areas. Government policies on municipal structure, knowledge and competences, industrial development, agriculture, transport and communication and health are designed to strengthen and empower local communities. The objective of regional policy is balance through growth strength, equivalent and sustainable regions throughout the country. It is an important area of activity for this government, which has also announced a new big business message on rural policy in 2019. I look forward to that. The 2019 budget strengthens the Mercury programme. The appropriations have been increased to more than 59 million. kr, significantly higher than in 2017 and 2018. It's set at 100 million. kr to broadband in the districts of the Ministry of Transport’s budget, and the differentiated employer’s fee is a powerful instrument, amounting to approximately 15.4 billion. kr in 2019. There is no doubt that the large appropriations for transportation, which have increased by about 75 pst. After 2013, it both reduces distances, binds communities together and provides new opportunities for people and businesses across the country. I'm proud of that and happy about it. It's, in my opinion, the most important regional policy tool we have. This budget lays down that in State activities at least 5 pst. by all new staff are disabled persons or holes in the CV. It's an important signal to the municipalities and our county municipalities. In East Agder County they have already taken similar decisions. They have done the same in Grimstad municipality. In the West Agder County Municipality, the case is also lifted, and the same is true of Högebostad and Tvedestrand municipalities. The government has included on the agenda, and in 2019 the municipalities and the counties must also follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1787	‘Growth in the whole country’, says the representative Tveiten Benestad, and then the tools that create jobs in the districts are cut. SV is increasing in the areas of job creation. I notice that the council really glows when she's going to defend that the 0.1 pst. The wealthiest in the country has received 1.4 billion. kr cash in the lab without a single claim. Then I see the glow coming. But my glow will probably come a little bit more when I'm going to help those companies that are not yet created, get the opportunity to be created, through the grants SV suggests, or that people will be able to live safely in their homes, if it's not now in the Holmenkol lock. That is why we have to do something about housing support, because people have to be able to live safely in this country too with so high housing prices – where only market prices apply, whether they are owned or rented. Then it's not safe for everyone. It must be a task that the State must also take, not just shift all responsibility to the municipalities. SV chooses to grant money to teachers, health professionals, psychologists, school health services, nurses – all those who are going to do all the important jobs that governments, government parties and support players stand here and boast that we should have. I talk to municipalities every day, I do. They say they can't afford it. They say they have too little money to hire enough people to take care of the elderly, to take care of people with developmental disabilities or disabilities. They are unable to cut parental care to contribute to local communities, for example. preventing extreme weather. SV believes that there are important issues that we have to contribute to by the state. So we're going to give you, for example: 200 million. kr to the counties so that they can reinforce their effort for elves. We will contribute to the possibility of taking higher education throughout the country, and therefore we will strengthen the county councils with extra grants, so that they can get it. There are some people who say that tax money should be used as best as possible. Yes, I agree with the heart. It is therefore necessary to put an end to the imposition of anti-competitive welfare, so that large amounts of our tax money go to the profits of private companies. All those employed in these jobs do not have too much money in wages and pensions, and the money should be used for what they have been granted. That's why we pay taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1798	Perhaps the most important task of municipalities and county councils is that they are service producers. In health policy, there is most discussion and debate about the health services that take place under the control of the state, but most of the health and care services take place in municipalities, where people live. When the interaction reform came in 2012, it was a cross-political objective that the growth of the health budget should now take place in the municipalities. It has not followed up on this government. It is clear from the national audit report published in 2016 on the use of resources and quality of health services following the implementation of the interaction reform. He showed that the municipalities had slightly increased their capacity and strengthened their competence in spite of the fact that several patients were treated in the municipality. For example, the growth in years of play was as follows: Three times as big in hospitals as in municipalities. Large cuts for elderly patients in hospitals are now challenging the community health service. Local authorities are getting more and more tasks, but this task is done in the hidden. This is part of the fact that today we have a fixed crisis, with experienced outcomes, and young people do not want to take over firm practices, nor in big cities. This is due to a system failure in which patient responsibility is shifted to municipalities, without following resources. Because the fixed medical system is in a hurry. But the government has plenty of time. They will not produce an action plan until 2020. The centre party will have action now, and we will show that in our alternative budget, where we have measures both to stabilise the system and to recruit more to it. The fact that the municipalities are in health care is affecting those for whom the healthcare service is available, i.e. patients: the elderly, the crippled patient and the young, the newborn mother, who is at risk of being sent out from the maternity ward six hours after birth and without enough midwives to follow up on return. The National Audit Report on Accessibility and Quality of Older People, which came on 20 November of this year, should be turbulent to the Mayor Monica Mæland. There they come with strong criticism. It says that there are major challenges to patient safety in the care of the elderly. There is a lack of knowledge about quality, and older people are allocated health and care services without the need and the desire for them being properly distributed. And no, the whole life-reform is actually not the answer to that challenge. There it didn't follow with a penny, except for millions to County for a bureaucratic follow-up. The centre party prioritises in its alternative budget funds that will strengthen the primary services, mainly through nearly 4 billion. kr more to the total municipal council. It will provide more mental health, more midwives, more specific and more resources for the activity and content of care for the elderly, and it is the cheapest for the health care system and the best for the patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1813	When we are on the transport committee, there is one theme that is being addressed – every place, every county, and that is the situation of the country's county roads – the county roads that are the responsibility of the county municipalities and which are very important roads out there. Yes, in fact, in the number of kilometres, the total county road network in Norway is four times the national road network. It's a big challenge to make sure that those roads are in good enough constitution. Many of them are good – absolutely, but it is also a big maintenance run. A little bit depending on how to calculate it, but at some point between 50 billion. kr and 100 brd. kr is maintained on the country's county roads. These are important ways for businesses and businesses to bring their goods forward, for people going to work, and for kids going to school. Earlier this year, we discussed whether we should have a state programme of our own so that the state would contribute somehow to re-establish some of the maintenance work on county roads. That would not be the government and the government parties. Rather, they wanted it to be financed through the framework grant to the county municipalities, as it is today. But then the county councils have to have finances that enable them to allocate funds to county roads. Therefore, the economy of county municipalities needs to be strengthened, and therefore I am pleased that the Workers' Party in its alternative budget has a significant strengthening of the transfers to county municipalities. 2019 is the last year that three important state responsibilities in the field of transport are at the hands of the state. From 2020 onwards, responsibility for the state fishing ports and for the purchase of routes, the so-called FOT routes, and the support for broadband development from the state to the county municipalities is transferred. The strange thing is that in the state budget for 2019, the government proposed a significant decrease in the allocation of all three key areas. Both fishing ports, FOT routes and broadband development support were cut in the 2019 budget compared to 2018. Nevertheless, these are very important areas, both fishing ports, route provision in the districts and support for broadband development, at a time when digitalisation and digital infrastructure are more important than ever. Then there's one thing that becomes crucial. It is that the county economy is good so that they can give priority to these important areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1822	The municipalities and the counties are the most important arenas for the inhabitants of our country in order for people to get good services near where they live throughout the country. The centre party wants much stronger municipalities and counties – not as the Council of State mentions them, measured by the number of inhabitants and their external borders. We want stronger municipalities and counties with more money to provide services and well-being near people. We demand less bureaucracy and more trust. Investing in the future is investing in children and young people. The size wants more adults to follow up the children in kindergartens, but the Right, the Advance Party and the Left present a budget that does not allow this to be done, as the Storting has requested. Small private kindergartens are purchased or laid down throughout the country. Municipalities merge kindergarten departments. The Central Party is proposing 400 million. kr to municipalities in order to improve kindergartens without having to be larger or owned by a group. Furthermore, we want a more practical and active school day. The right-hand school is too sedentary and only designed for theoretically strong students. We need a school that makes it possible to work effectively and actively, and we want, among other things. more physical activity in school. Camp school is also something we earmark funds for all children and young people to have an offer of nature and outdoor life. Vocational training at school should enable students to break into the practical working day before choosing a high-level course, and in upper secondary education we will have much more flexible occupations. We are submitting a professional package of 300 million. kr, so that carpenters can have the hammer in their hands from the first day – with more relevant equipment and better placement of apprenticeships when they are going to study. In addition, decentralised education and regional research will provide the Centre with more money, as it provides the municipalities with knowledge and competence to meet developments in society and in the labour market. The government's announced competence reform has great expectations, but at the same time we have to do things now. We can't wait for groceries to get something done. The same thing applies to the team around the student. There is no doubt that the local government budget is absolutely crucial to the number of health sisters, specialised educators and others who can provide help to pupils and teachers in their everyday lives. We also have a sample of time thieves and a big message of early efforts that comes, but here we can't wait to assess when we already have a lot of knowledge on the table to make everyday life better for students in Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1841	After the Central Party's view, the government's year in the government offices has contributed to a strong centralisation in this country. This is done by changing the cost keys, including: for the allocation of grants to counties and municipalities. As a result of the changes to the government, large-scale conversions have led to the specific framework of the districts and smaller and medium-sized municipalities. The conversion of the income system for municipalities has resulted in similar results, including: for municipalities with around 2000 to 25000 inhabitants. Everyone has lost their share of the new income system. This is 239 municipalities, while 51 municipalities came in positive. All the municipalities that came in plus had over 25,000 inhabitants. This is not good. Local authorities are now experiencing a strong pressure on the economy by introducing more unfunded standards and requirements. This is unsustainable. This shows a budget overview of 105 municipalities carried out by KS. The sum of the government's budget means thrones of economic times for many municipalities and poorer services to people. In the Central Party, we assume that the transfer to municipalities will provide the basis for equivalent services and municipal measures to the inhabitants, regardless of the city of a cage in the country. And that's what we're going to do, and we're going to do when we give this a strong priority to strengthening the local economy by plus 2.4 billion. SEK, the county council of 1.5 billion. kr – and not less than 0,5 brd. kr to regional development funds. And then we want to give 1 billion. kr to county roads. It is important that all municipalities now have equal opportunities, and that all tasks and norms coming to the municipalities are fully funded from one day to the next.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1848	It's a goal for the Right that most people should have the opportunity to own their own home. That's also why the government has made sure to make it faster, simpler and cheaper to build homes. Most people manage to get and buy their own home. So many as 80 pst. of us live in a dwelling we own ourselves. But not all people are able to obtain their own housing, and for them it is a priority area for the government to ensure that even disadvantaged people in the housing market can obtain and maintain a good housing. Several representatives before me are trying to give the impression that the government has not invested in the housing social work, but it falls on its own unreasonableness. There has been no record of fewer homeless people than we have under this government, and the decline is greatest among children. It has not come of itself; it has come as a result of our choosing to target the measures more closely to ensure that those who need it the most will get more. Let me give you some examples. We have targeted start-up loan schemes in the Husbank, so that several of those who get a start-up loan are able to fully finance their home. These are people who would never have managed to buy their own home. We have also corrected the underregulations provided by the red-greens, and from 2017 the housing support also follows the price increase. We have ensured that housing support is paid on the basis of up-to-date equations, not two-year-old equations, used by the red-greens. This means that fewer people get difficult repayment claims, and that the housing allowance goes to those who actually need it. We have ensured that the compensation system for the default reform is made permanent in such a way that those who had increased disability benefit in 2015 do not lose the housing support. And in this year's budget, we are doing a further strengthening of housing support for families with children. With the change that we are adopting today, a very common family of children who are struggling to get a good housing can get up to NOK 5000 in increased housing support. We have also provided housing support for new forms of housing, so that people in the book collection also have the opportunity to receive housing support, and it is clearly important when we have received so many new refugees and immigrants in recent years. The SV and the Workers' Party seem to want to jump over the fact that the number of housing beneficiaries was also falling from 2011, when they themselves were in government. One also chooses to jump over the fact that much of the decline in housing aid is due to fewer repayment requirements because of the use of up-to-date equation. Good housing social work is absolutely necessary to ensure that everyone has a good place to live. It ensures this government while also seeing other poverty measures in the context.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1863	There were the representatives Holm Lønseneth's considerations in the previous post that I have to link a few comments to. Among other things, I realized that she said that the oil price fall was much worse than the financial crisis in 2008, and then it must be allowed to say that it is completely historyless to claim such a thing. The financial crisis in 2008 was far more extensive and profound in all ways. The oil price drop was serious enough, but it is not possible to claim anything like that. The representative Holm Lønseth goes on and boasts of the government's so-called reforms – this ABE reform, which is no reform! There's no reform in those three letters there. It's a clean cut for the public! It's a clean cheese chop, with no head and tail, with no aim and meaning. And it cut, they had to deposit it because they were going to finance the tax cuts to some of Norway's richest people. It is the so-called reform. Finally, the representative Holm Lønneth claims that the alternatives to the budget we are discussing today are much worse. Then I just have to ask – a little carefully, perhaps: when Trondheim, as the representative Holm Lønseth lives in, would get 88 million. What had become worse in Trondheim? When Trondelag County had received 72 million. More on the Labour Party's budget, what had become worse in Trøndelag? When the Østfold municipalities had received more than 143 million. With the draft budget of the Labour Party, what had become worse in the Eastfold municipalities? I can continue for quite a long time to take these figures for the municipalities which are a better alternative than what the representative Holm Lønseth, her government party and her government colleagues have managed to stable on their legs. It's just fixing it. I understand that it may be difficult to take it over. However, the Labour Party has a significantly better budget proposal for municipalities and counties in Norway than the government has managed to settle on its legs.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1872	You can see that some of the representatives from the government parties are of the opinion that otherwise is the same as worse, but it is not. It's just that you have a different priority. Within the opposition, there are also different priorities, which make the policy direction in which you want to take this country visible. It is quite clear that the Centre Party believes that the largest service providers of the Norwegian population, i.e. Norwegian municipalities and county municipalities, should be able to develop, expand and improve their services to the population. That is why we – as representatives in the past – have over 2.4 billion. SEK in increased free income for Norwegian municipalities and SEK 1,5 billion. SEK to Norwegian county councils. Let me go into the county councils a little bit, because sometimes it seems that some people think the county councils are a little duke. But the county councils have a role in any case. Even in the wettest imagination of a right-wing politician who wants to merge Norwegian municipalities, Norwegian municipalities will in any case become too small to implement. That's why we have the county councils – to take care of e.g. collective services, transport and other major areas of regional planning, because Norwegian municipalities, however large they may be, could not be large enough. Then we had to go for municipalities that were the same size as the counties. This is because no one in this room wants it. It is because all possibilities for popular governance then disappear, because there will be too far between the politicians who decide and the services to be provided by Norwegian municipalities, which Stortinget has ordered them to provide. Of course, 1.5 billion. kr to Norwegian counties, where the majority are going to bet on the road – it has to be chosen by the county councils themselves, but the majority of them are justified on the road – from the centre party is meant as a hand bill, because transport and transport are important for people in everyday life, so that they can get to work, and to get the goods out. I find it remarkable that, for example. The representatives of the Progress Party have not been up and down. Let me conclude by saying that the House Bank and the housing policy instruments that we have here in this country are essentially a big uproar and broad consensus on. That's how much we might use these tools, the debate is about. That's where the different batches have different solutions. The central party believes that we should use the Husbank further to strengthen housing policy work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1885	What made me ask for the floor was actually the representative of Toppe's post. She took up the firmness situation. The system is an important arrangement for us, but I agree with the representative Toppe that the PCs have too many tasks. That is why the government has started to recruit several doctors through the grant and recruitment schemes and grants for educational positions. Now the system is being evaluated to determine which tasks decision-makers need and which tasks others can take over. To solve this challenge, it takes more than money. That is why it has been announced that a new action plan will be in place in the spring of 2020. I think it'll be important. When I first stand up here, I would like to comment on something the representative Lauvås said, which took up what he calls cheese-happiness. We cannot have a situation in the country that also the state must not change. The reform of red tape has been important because it provides a requirement for efficiency. Savings provide space for action to prioritise and implement new policies. Through the budgetary agreement with the Left and the Christian People's Party, we have been given the opportunity to re-prioritize 2 billion. kr for other good purposes. It's also a good grant.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1892	The representative Karin Andersen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1898	The flat cheese mats give enough room to give priority, for example. That there will be fewer people on Nav who will help those who need it there, and more money to give to the richest in this country. I understand the government will. But we disagree. We believe that the government must take responsibility for the changes that are taking place, and not push that responsibility down on the employees. With regard to housing policy, 88,800 on average are now receiving housing support. It's a very low number. The government has not followed up on the fact that fewer and fewer people qualify for housing support in a housing market where prices have exploded in recent years. They continue to do so, including the price of newly built dwellings, which the government claimed would go down because they weakened the housing regulations. I've checked the last numbers. Prices have increased by 4.5 pst. in the third quarter. So it's going to be more expensive for people who are going to buy new homes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1905	The representative Benestad and others have claimed that the government has invested in growth throughout the country and that an offensive industrial policy is being pursued in the district. When I use the word bet, it means doing more of something, not halving it. The government has halved regional policy development funds from 2013 to today. The centre party is focusing on industrial development in the district. We're adding 0.5 billion. kr more than the government, just to make sure that we get growth in business throughout the country. No matter who you visit, whether it's the Lierne bakery, whether it's female entrepreneurs, whether it's the founders around who create their own job and after each job to others, they talk about how important this money is for you to get started. This money goes to the municipal food funds. They are now empty around the district of Norway. In addition to the tightness of the municipal economy that they do not have the ability to fill with funds themselves, the county council share has disappeared. So the tool box is empty. The government was investing in transport in order to achieve business development in the district. What has happened on transportation? The money for the Troundway has moved in centrally. There is a proper effort on national roads, and that is good, but the county roads are due, and the maintenance run is increasing for every single year that goes. The Central Party bets 1 billion. kroner on county roads, and we're adding up to 1 billion. kr every year for 10 years, to enable the county roads to transport people and not least the values created in District Norway to the market. Then it's about keeping the public jobs in the district. What does the government do? They have centralised the tax administration, centralized the county seat, put prisons in the districts, refugee receptions are largely laid down in the districts. Of course, they need to be reduced, but why in the districts? What measures are being taken to strengthen the district industries? Well, there's increased tax on the travel industry. We know how it is for the marine industry and the reindeer industry. The only thing that increases there is the loss of predators. The food industry must move abroad. And not least, if the strengthening of the Merkur programme is good, many of the jobs in Sweden and other countries will disappear due to the 350-kroner limit and the sugar levy. Last but not least: a sustainable and profitable export industry, which is an important district industry, they lay down with a pen stroke – as they have done with fur animal nutrition. This is not a bet – it's centralization.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1918	The representative Mari Holm Lønseth has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short note, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1923	It is not new that the Right Party and the Workers' Party have a completely fundamentally different view of how values are created, nor is it new that one has a different view of what the municipalities live by. I hear that the representative of Lauvås believes that the municipality of Trondheim primarily lives on the subsidies we receive from the state. But the municipality of Trondheim doesn't live by it. It is mainly because of the fact that, for example: rates of research and innovation, creating even more jobs around the city. In addition, Lauvås jumps over the fact that Trondheim Municipality and all other municipalities have received more than enough funds to provide good services to people. Last year, Trondheim had a surplus of 440 million. kr, while the Arbeiderpart-steered city chooses to add even more to property taxes every year from ordinary people who own their own dwelling. I understand that you have to have more municipal finances if you, for example. shall require all municipalities to re-communalise all services, as the Workers' Party does, but the arrangements they provide are not financed enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1930	Once again, I would like to refer to the findings of the SSB report Housing and housing conditions, which show that the proportion of owner-occupiers in low-income households has fallen by 10 percentage points in recent years. The first-time start-ups are getting older, and fewer are receiving housing support that owns a dwelling. This is a find that we politicians must take for granted. Then it is a little sad to hear the representative Holm Lønseth, who closes his ears to the facts and does not want to develop a housing policy in a direction that ensures that more people with low incomes have the opportunity to own their own housing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1935	The representative Stein Erik Lauvås has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1940	Yes, Mr Tveiten Benestad, we need to have a switch, we need to have more efficiency. That's of course a thing. I was lucky and got to be rapporteur for ten years. We were doing it every day – changing, streamlining, and doing things better for the people. But the representative Tveiten Benestad says that that is why we need this letter reform, the ABE reform. No, you don't have to, because the so-called reform is not a reform. It's a flat cut to the municipalities, to the public. That's what it is. It's a flat cut! And they had to have it to give away tax cuts to the richest people in the country. That's the whole background for this ABE case, simply the need for money for more tax cuts.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1945	The representative Heidi Greni has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1950	Holm Lønneth and I represent both troth layers of the county, and she said something such as that she was so pleased that this budget was adopted, for the alternative was so much worse. For example, the Central Party configuration option would: for Trondelag County, meaning that the municipalities had received 178 million. kr more for the production of services. This would have meant that the county had received 117 million. kr more for the production of services. I think they had a good use for that when they're sitting on their budgets. That would mean that the treadmill had started up as intended, with a start-up grant of 150 million. kr. That would mean that the county roads in the South Trøndelag had received $70 million. kr. more. It would mean a strong commitment to broadband, and it would mean more to predatory measures. This would simply mean that there had been better service production and opportunities to offer new services to the inhabitants, both in the municipalities and in the Trøndelag counties.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1955	There's a meager framework the government's offering the districts next year. Unfortunately, a disappointing draft budget for the people and business of District Norway has not improved – I must say – through the budgetary agreement concluded with the Christian People's Party. While the delays in the maintenance of our county roads are increasing and the framework for business activity is far from reaching the many projects that would provide new value creation and jobs, the budget mates correspond to the zero-growth budget of the county municipalities and new cuts in the money for regional and district development. How has the nutrition development toolbox gone? Indeed, for the fifth consecutive year, the allocation of regional and regional policies is being reduced, which will provide new jobs and new value creation in the districts. That framework is more than halved compared to the last draft budget of the Red-Green Government. The government and the Christian People's Party have also not listened to the impassioned call from the Communes' Central Association for a joint effort in the state and state to stop the increasing maintenance of the county roads. It's sad. However, it is proposed that a 100 million bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet. kr to the county roads, but there is a re-priority within the framework of the free income of the county municipalities. So what was going to go to more classes, more training, or a rascal road, has been distributed by 100 million. kr without choosing to increase the total pot. There won't be any new bets in District Norway. On the contrary, it'll give you the opposite. The draft budget of the Central Party is a different direction, one that shows that you want to take advantage of the opportunities that lie out of the country, and provide good services to our citizens, precisely because we are going to take advantage of the amazing opportunities that lie in the whole country, to provide more in value creation, so that we can together finance the good welfare that this country has built up over many years. Nordland, in order to take my own country home, would have had a significantly better local economy and a significantly better economy for the county, to provide services to the inhabitants. It is one of the major coastal regions, which produce goods for tens of billions, and where service production is weakened, both from the county and from many of the municipalities, on the basis of this government's budget proposal. It is a budget that takes this country in the wrong direction, which looks too narrow on where values are created, and which does not take advantage of the opportunities that lie there, neither for people nor for economic development. And I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e1966	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox The President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 2–4 is treated as a single agent. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e2006	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e2018	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e2027	A total of 20 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Jon Engen-Helgheim on behalf of Right, Advance Party and Christian People's Party proposed no. 2 and 3, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 4-18, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 19 from Jon Engen-Helgheim on behalf of the Right, the Party of Advancement, the Left and Christian People's Party proposal No 20, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party The President takes note of the fact that proposal No. Eight were withdrawn during the debate. Mr Andersen has asked for the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e2052	On behalf of the SV, the Centre Party and the Working Party, there is a need to clarify voting on proposal No. 19th@item: inlistbox It may not be something we disagree with in itself, but it is to be seen as part of the framework allocation in Framework Area 6 and therefore we are going to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e2057	Proposal No. 19 changed during the debate and sounds changed: ‘The increase consents to an increase of 6 million. crowns over cap. 490 item 1 may be used for measures to improve the conditions for children in the asylum chain, including reception. The appropriations may also be used under Chapter 2. 490 item 21, on which the keyword is added: may be used under item 21. ‘... First, there will be a vote on proposal No. 20, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals to amend the housing aid legislation in order to remove the delay that has occurred since 2009 due to a lack of adjustment of housing costs, price levels and taking into account developments in the income level of the low income group.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e2079	Proposal No. 18, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure a digital e-election solution at the municipal and county elections in 2019 and to establish a permanent system of local and city planning on the basis of these experiences.’ The Greens have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e2096	Proposal No. 3, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests the reintroduction of compensation for small operating expenses through a similar basic grant to all municipalities at the level of the grant granted until 2016.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e2113	Proposal No. 4, 5, 9, 11-13 and 15, of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to initiate an agreement with Greece to receive an equivalent number of asylum seekers for treatment in Norway as under the previous relocalisation mechanism.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen its competence in gender and sexuality diversity and cultural competence in adult education by strengthening the shift up the world’s work towards adult education in this respect.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The size calls on the Government of the Municipal Proposition for 2020 to submit proposals for stronger income blending in the municipal sector.’» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to make proposals on how a maximum price scheme in the cultural school can be implemented.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out a comprehensive review of the system of resource-intensive services and to ensure that relevant costs incurred by municipalities, such as: derives from the quality regulation and early outsourcing of patients, is included in the basis of the municipal excess.» Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide different models to increase the co-financing of particularly resource-intensive services by the State and to extend it to patients over 67 years of age and within the scheme.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish the necessary requirements for competence in the local government sector in the areas of environment, biodiversity and climate.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e2164	Proposal No. 14 from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to establish a State interest compensation scheme for necessary investments in infrastructure in the municipal sector as a result of extreme weather.» The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e2181	Proposal No. 7, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals for housing support legislation to ensure housing support for disabled people irrespective of the time at which the disability benefit was granted and at about the same level as the housing aid before the conversion of the disability benefit.’ The centre party, the environmental party Dei Green and Red have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e2198	Proposal No. 6 and 17 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that crisis centres and other support measures for victims of violence in Sami areas are ensured to ensure that this group is also exposed to violence until a new action plan against violence and abuse in the Sami environment is in place.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to launch a new and major trial of 16-year-olds’ voting rights. It is necessary to ensure that the largest cities are included in the scheme.» The Labour Party, the Greens and Reds have already supported the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e2222	Proposal No. 10 and 16 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 10 sounds: «The government is asked to establish a permanent compensation scheme for the loss of income resulting from changes in property taxes on works and uses, which ensures approximately full compensation.» Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to the Grand Duchy with an evaluation of the experience of including appropriations into the framework grant centres and how this has developed, and to propose a scheme in which the grants are excluded from the framework grant.’» The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have already supported the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e2246	Proposal No. 2, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to draw up its own action plan against violence and abuse in the Sami environment.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e2263	Proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asking the government to maintain the regional centre grant as an economic instrument even in future municipal mergers. The regional centre grant goes to municipalities that merge and thus form a stronger centre of gravity in their region. The grant is paid as today following a national merger decision. It is assumed that increased regional centre grants are financed under the local authority framework with a reduction in the population grant.’ The President assumed that the Left would support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e2281	Proposal No. 19 from the Right, the Party of Advances, the Party of Left and Christian Peoples. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The increase consents to an increase of 6 million. crowns over cap. 490 item 1 may be used for measures to improve the conditions for children in the asylum chain, including reception. The appropriations may also be used under Chapter 2. 490 item 21, on which the keyword is added: may be used under item 21. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e4268	The recommendation of the Committee to A I shall be rejected. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e4282	The recommendation from the Committee for A X is rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e4292	The recommendation of the Committee for A II-IX and XI and XII shall be contested.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e6526	The recommendation of the Committee to B I shall be rejected. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e6540	President! My voice was not counted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e6545	Was it not counted? – Then we simply take up the voting again. The recommendation of the Committee to B I shall be rejected. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e6561	The recommendation of the Committee to B IV shall be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e6572	The recommendation of the Committee for B II and III and V-XI shall be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e6960	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e6997	The recommendation of the D II Committee shall be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e7007	The recommendation of the Committee for D I and III shall be rejected. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e7025	Case No. 2–4 is the second time legal proceedings and is subject to legal acts 18–20. There are no comments suggested. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been accepted for the second time and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-14.ana.ud467e7041	There is no record available. Thus, today's maps are processed. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It's not happening. The meeting has been cancelled.
