ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e25	Representatives Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, Himanshu Gulati, Geir Adelsten Iversen, Emilie Enger Mehl, Hanne Dyveke Sweets, Marianne Marthinsen, Hege Haukeland Liadal, Liv Signe Navarsete and Kent Gudmundsen, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative Nina Sandberg from 4 April until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the goods, Mani Hussaini, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e75	Mani Hussaini is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e86	The representative of Mr Wilkinson will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e91	On behalf of the big business representatives Karin Andersen, Petter Eide and myself, I would like to make a proposal to stop direct electronic access to children's mental health records.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e96	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e112	On Wednesday 28 March, the Stortinge received a notice from the Prime Minister's office that Trine Skei Grande, Ketil Solvik-Olsen and Ola Elvestuen would meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to launch the questionnaire. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Sverre Myrli.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e121	My question goes to the Minister for Transport. The winter, which does not seem to release the roof completely yet, has not been very well seen with thousands of train commuters' eyes. There have been delays, there have been adjustments, there have been problems with the organisation of alternative transport, and many travellers complain about poor information. That's understandable, because truly there are now many companies and entities on the railway. It takes the Minister of Transport time and effort. The NSB runs trains – as long as – the company Norske train owns the trains, the company Mantena maintains the trains, the company Entur sells tickets, and we have got the railway directorate and Bane NOR and probably even more companies and units. The travellers ask themselves the questions: Who is the overall responsibility for the Norwegian railway? Who is responsible for the travelers? Yesterday I received an enquiry from a commuter on the Eastfold Railway, who writes: There is little information to get. NSB owes it to Bane NOR, and Bane NOR owes it to NSB. What does the Minister of Transport say to train commuters on the Eastfold Railway, on the Dramensbanen and other railway sections, who are late for work, or who do not reach the kindergarten?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e135	I'm saying we're going to build an even better railway in the future. We've been making a big effort in the last few years. I remember myself when I was in opposition between 2005 and 2013, we experienced a railway that was in danger of collapsing. There were internal reports from the Railway Agency and others who said that if you didn't do anything about this, this would be a crisis. The result was reduced appropriations for maintenance in 2011, 2012 and 2013 – not exactly the means to implement them. That's why we got a new government that promised from 2013 and did other things. The appropriations for the maintenance of the railway have more than doubled. It is about being able to reduce the maturities that have doubled between 2005 and 2013. It's about buying more new train sets, so we can eventually get through the challenges we're facing that old train sets are almost impossible to maintain because the parts are no longer in production. It's about replacing overhead lines, switches and the like, so we avoid problems occurring, instead of waiting to replace them until things have collapsed. It's not because the Railway Agency or the NSB is not competent to do that job, but they simply don't have enough resources. Now there's more resources, but that's not enough for us overnight to be able to fix all the problems that have arisen over many decades. Some of the challenges that have been pointed out about low temperatures are simply that the wheels of the trains have frozen. It is a temperature problem that is not necessarily about which government governs, but it is about physical aspects of this. We have to make sure that we avoid this happening again. Therefore, we need to increase further the appropriations for maintenance. That's why we're going to buy even more trainsets. That is why we need to invest more in double tracks in many places. We need to invest more in better storage of train sets, just to avoid this. Fortunately, there are alleged problems in understanding the organisation of the railway system, but I understand that I would like to have a conversation with the representative Myrli afterwards to explain how responsibility has been allocated, because there is no problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e144	I would like to have a conversation, but I think the Minister for Transport must also have a conversation with the train commuters, because there was nothing in his answer that showed that he takes the situation seriously and has good answers to the travelers, who are frustrated every day. As if we don't have enough cooks on the railway, yesterday we got a message that the government will put away Bane NOR's daily operation and maintenance of the railway to private. The east fold track shall be apparently first as a guinea pig. That's how Bane NOR can owe NSB, and NSB can owe Bane NOR, and Bane NOR can owe to the companies that take over the job from Bane NOR. Is there no border for the Minister for Transport on what can be broken up, what can be put away, or what can be privatised on the railway?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e151	I think most people in this room know that the ownership of the railway is still with the state. It's the state that has the overall responsibility. The fact that you have dedicated units that perform different tasks is not the same as no one knows who is responsible. On the contrary, Bane NOR has now been given full responsibility for the entire infrastructure and all the property where it was previously split up, when the Workers' Party crashed. We've got one actor responsible for the railway equipment – the train equipment. This is not a problem that affects those who work there. They know where this responsibility is, but I understand that the Workers' Party is trying to blackmail the situation. In 2011 and 2012 there were very many train customers standing on the platform without being put on the railway afterwards when it came to maintenance. We've doubled the bet just to avoid the situation that has happened. This does not mean that we have managed to remove it completely, but I just want to remind you that the customer satisfaction of the train travellers in 2017 was the best ever since we started to register this. The fact that you have had a few weeks of deviations in the East is very regrettable, and we are working to correct that, but it does not describe the railway as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e158	It opens for follow-up questions – first Sverre Myrli.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e163	So I did not get a response as to whether there are any limits to what can be removed. Then we try a slightly simpler area: Many people who travel by train depend on putting the car away at the station. It gets harder and harder and more expensive and more expensive. One of these innumerable actors we have got on the railway, Bane NOR, now wants to cancel the prices so that you can park at the station, and of course have entered into cooperation with private parking companies about it. In addition, payment systems are introduced in many places that are very low customer-friendly, to a great extent frustrating for many commuters. Can the Minister for Transport explain why he wants to make it more expensive and difficult for travellers to park at railway stations?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e168	I don't want to make it harder and more expensive to park at the railway stations, and I just want to make Stortinget aware that all the three questions I have now received have been answered earlier by the representative Myrli, but he refuses to deal with the facts about this and is trying to create a situation where it seems that nobody has control, and that all one wants is that it should get worse. We've said that we're following up on what Bane NOR has chosen to do when it comes to trying to make better use of the parking spaces. It has to be an evaluation, and then we'll make an assessment of what you should do next. We want more people to travel by rail, we want it to be easier to park the car, but we want it to be cheaper to use the railway. That's why we have reduced the price of the monthly ticket tickets, etc., so there are several departures on the railway today, and therefore there is also increased customer satisfaction compared to when the party to the representative Myrli crashed. I also did not say that there is no limit to what is to be offered, and so on. That's why I just pointed out that the state owns all the railways.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e175	I think the representative Myrlis' summary of my answers is very poor compared to what I actually say. It's a little strange to get these claims from a party that even split up the NSB and the President: the railway works, and that even privatized the clean-up of the railway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e178	Severe Myrli – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e184	I am probably far from satisfied with the answers, because the Minister for Transport does not answer my questions. So I repeat: the Minister for Transport is responsible for Norwegian railway policy. Now the prices for parking are increasing at railway stations – in many places dramatic, and in many places it becomes more difficult to park. It is a simple question: can the Minister for Transport explain why it is going to be more expensive and more difficult to park at Norwegian railway stations?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e189	I have also replied to the representative earlier. I can repeat it if it was difficult to understand the last time: this is what Bane NOR does because they want to make sure that several of the passengers get parking spaces and fewer of the parking spaces are used for others than commuters who are not going to travel by rail. This should be evaluated within a few months, and then a conclusion will be reached as to whether this was successful or not. My goal is for more people to travel by rail, to make it more attractive, and to make it easier to park. So the goal here is to get a better offer. We've got it through that there are several departures, that's better customer satisfaction, there are several new train sets, we're spending more money on maintenance, we're building more railway, and we see the results of that. But it's not hard to find examples that the railway doesn't work as well as it should. Nevertheless, it is easy to find numbers that show that it works better today than it did before our government joined, because we have actually increased the appropriations considerably, just to be able to correct many of those problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e196	Severe Myrli – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e201	Today it took approx. 35 seconds before the Minister of Transport laid the responsibility on the red-green ones. Of course, the problems on today's railway are the red-greens' fault. That's how it answers all the questions. Today, it is said in the nations that Bane NOR will now postpone the very important timber terminal on Kongswinger, to the great despair of the forest industry and to the outrage of what it was put up to in the treatment of the national transport plan. This is one of the major measures to increase the volume of goods on the railway. A few weeks ago, the proposed InterCity extension was put at risk, even in contravention of the national transport plan. Yes, so much is the confusion that the Minister of Transport has been called up on the carpet and is going to explain the situation in Stortinget to the week. One can certainly ask himself the question: Who actually runs the Norwegian railway system for the time being? I have a question for the Minister for Transport: Is the National Transport Plan applicable from June, or is it not applicable?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e210	This government and today's majority adopted a very offensive national transport plan which greatly increased the investment on the railways and where almost half of the investment funds are to go to the railways. Those who dream back to a red-green railway policy will go back to a policy that had less resources, and that had increased decay. I wouldn't recommend that. Then it is not that I owe the red-green government for the situation that is today, but I point out that we have inherited a railway that was far from the state it should have. That's why this government and today's majority have made a strong commitment to correct the mistakes that we inherited. But it's our responsibility to do that job further – and only in 2018 we spend almost 10 billion. kr more on the railway than the representative of the Myrlis party was able to when they were driving, and there are inflation-adjusted figures. So to all those who are dissatisfied with the railway: it's right that it doesn't work as it should, but one still has to consider who's best to solve it. In the case of goods by rail, we now see for the second year in a row an increase in the amount of goods transported, after many years of decline. This is due, inter alia, to: that this government finances the freight bill, as opposed to the previous one.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e219	Ivar Odnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e224	In order for more people to travel by train, it is important that railway investments lead to a noticeably better provision of travel ‘as quickly as possible’, said National Auditor Per-Kristian Foss in the National Audit Office’s report on the impact of railway investments. All investment projects have had «the challenges to put in place signalling facilities before the planned completion of the projects». The National Audit Office pointed out that the work on signalling equipment has not been planned, organised and implemented well enough. According to Foss, the follow-up to the possibilities of ‘running improvements in train provision’ with the large railway investments has been critically weak. The last time in Easter was a time when all trains around Oslo were due to signal faults. It creates great frustration for travellers constantly to be met by trains standing or delayed due to faults on the signalling system or line. There is no more fragmentation, but more coordination is requested by the National Audit Office in its report. The question is: what kind of action does the Council intend to take to ensure that the investment in the railway system has a coordination that will provide a real better train supply?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e233	It is true that the Riksrevision in its reports – what I have seen from 2015 onwards – has pointed out that much of the organisation of the railway has not been good. A lot of the resource use has not been good. That is precisely why we have implemented a rail reform – which the opposition has rightly opposed. They have pointed out that many of the measures that politicians have promised have not been funded, including: The bet on goods. The freight bill is now funded. We've added 18 billion. kr in our national transport plan, but it has also been allocated for the first time in the budgets that have been. We've just arranged for the infrastructure to be owned and managed in one place, in Bane NOR. We have a railway directorate that's going to be a strategic unit, and then we have Bane NOR, who's taken over all ownership. Before that it was split up in several places. So the picture that the previous one asked tried to draw, that no one knows who's responsible for what, is simply not right. In the case of the signalling system, there has been a long-term problem for the railway. The largest digitisation project in Norwegian infrastructure in the next few years will just be to put in place a new digital signalling system, ERTMS, for the railway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e242	Arne Nävra – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e247	The railway reform and the launch of competition are already taking place in the old, good NSB, now last but not least by saying up to many people. The same thing as actually hit SAS, when they knew the breath from Norwegian, Ryanair, etc. in the neck, has now come to the NSB. In aviation, cabin crew and ground crew had to run even faster – faster and faster. The NSB must in a way meet competition by slimming and streamlining. They have to bring down the expenses to meet the competition from Swedish Railways, Hong Kong trains or whatever it may be. In his zeal, the NSB took a little too much Møller's tran and stopped too many conductors and drivers. Does not the Council of State see any correlation between these terminations and the meeting of competition — in the competitive environment now announced?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e254	It's true that we want a more streamlined railway, where you have fewer people doing the same thing. It is simply about getting better services for less money. In it, the NSB has not said that the strategy is to terminate the service providers – drivers and train crew. The strategy they announced a few years ago was less middle managers. It means fewer people sitting and organizing and moving paper, but more people doing the tasks. I asked for a statistics on the number of drivers on the Norwegian railway in 2013 and until today. The last updated figure I got was for 2016. There were almost 100 more drivers in 2016 than they were in 2013. So there's a lot to the opposite of that picture of the Workers' Party – and also SV – trying to give the impression that people are now being told up, that they're getting less money. In Hamar Arbeiderblad today I was told by the representative of Trettebergstien that we are strutting the bet on the railway. The fact is, 10 billion. kr more and more employees. But there are even more departures, and it's created a staff problem when there's been a lot of disease. That's what the NSB admitted, and they're fixing it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e262	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e267	We've got a new media minister. This means that we can finally get the media policy that the media diversity committee unanimously last year felt that it was urgent to implement – the policy to ensure the diversity of free, independent media, among others. the party Left talks nicely about in its program? We hope so, because the crisis in the media industry has been a few years, while the government's change – time and time again – when action has been called for, rather has been: we have to wait to do something about it until the media diversity committee has finished its job. After the NOU finally arrived, nothing has happened, however, even though it is urgent. After cutting into the bone, a few media houses have avoided red numbers in 2017, but the trend is still bright: the revenues disappear. Norwegian media have lost 2.3 billion. kr in advertising revenue only in recent years, primarily for Facebook and Google. Careful estimates say that there will be further billions in advertising losses in the future. The willingness to pay for digital services is not yet large enough. Recent heavy cost cuts have reduced the number of journalistic posts by at least 20 p.p., which, unfortunately, has left important areas of society no longer covered in the various newspapers — and power being monitored less, especially locally. It won't be easier for the locals, who have survived until now because of the paper subscription, after the government's new proposal that it should be mail delivery only two and a half days a week, which will cost hundreds of millions of dollars only in the first year. Then we have fake news and alternative media that are growing. This does not mean that it is less important to provide good framework conditions for the serious press in a difficult transition period. The government can no longer sit with its hands in jail and wait for the investigation of the media diversity committee, because it came last year. The cancellation message in this area should have been submitted before Easter, but it has now been postponed. So my question to the Minister of Culture is: Does the Minister acknowledge the conclusions of the Committee on Media Diversity that it is urgent? And not least, when is the minister going to do something?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e282	I share the concern for the good, big editorials that have the opportunity to run with proper investigative journalism. But I also think there's a need to talk the media industry up a little bit. We now see for the first time in 19 years an increase in subscription numbers and in the use of media. We see that there has been a difficult transition that the media have succeeded in. But it is also a major concern – to which the representative Sem-Jacobsen refers – related to media shadows, for example. geographical. Many rapporteurs never experience having a journalist visiting a local government. There are also media shadows within different themes, where we see that major, heavy and important issues in Norwegian public opinion are not covered by editorials that are professionally up-to-date and that work consistently and over time with them. That's why, over the week, I'm going to take an initiative and invite all the parties to try to get a broad media deal in this field. When we look at alternatives to licensing, when we look at how to manage the support for the media in the future, I think it is important that there is a broad consensus on this. This is not something we're going to decide with one voice's overweight in this room. This is not a theme where we should disagree so much that we come to disagreements that become election themes and that lead to big shifts in government change. I hope that we can now sit down together, all the parties in the committee, and agree on a platform for media support in the future. And then we have to remember that one of the reasons you've got it shifted, and now you can see that the arrows point up again, I think is the big change that we made in the last period, and that was made in a budget deal, that we removed the VAT on the digital media. It was perhaps the most important media policy move in the last period.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e291	I thank you for your answer. I had hoped for an estimate of when the staging message is finished, but I am very happy that it points to settlement. The media diversity selection was wide-ranging and had many assessments, including: to cut a lot of support. But the unanimous, comprehensive main proposal for the sample, what they really thought would work, is a temporary exemption from the employer’s bill for news media for a time-limited period of about four years. We find that interesting in the Center Party, so we'd like to talk about that at the meeting of the Council of State. For this will be good in terms of the challenges facing the industry. It's not long, it's general and it gives you arm's length distance. Although it will cost a little, the cost is low on the consequences of the decline in journalism now has for our democracy, which the minister had in mind. What does the Minister think about the proposal for a temporary exemption from the employer’s fee? How are the Center Party and I going to prepare us for the meeting to which the Council of State is going to call?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e300	We'll give the representative a good basis to prepare for the meeting, I promise. The speed with regard to when we're able to present this, is also about whether we can agree quickly, or whether we're going to spend some time on it. I think it's important that we now create a system that stands by time, and where we agree on some principles for how media support should be. I think it is important to have a system that is not too closely linked to political decisions in this room from year to year, but that provides both long-term and an arm's length distance from what should be the critical media. I think it's important to establish that we have proper environments with gravitating journalism, and I think it's important to look at what kind of instruments might be the objective ones, like what I'm referring to, that the VAT exemption has been as important as I think it has been. The challenges of employers’ fees are about the limitations. But we're going to put the professional basis on the table, so we can discuss it as soon as we meet. Then I think it is important to stress that we should also have long-term plans for how to finance the media, in the public debate ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e307	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Marit Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e312	Yes, there is something urgent about this case, because every year with lost time is very serious for an industry that has already been in very difficult situations over the years. The reason why things are going a little bit better this year is because they've cut their legs. And cutting the leg goes beyond the ability to prioritize demanding and critical journalism, which we are all concerned with. But there's also something remarkable about the way the government now responds. So there's no big news coming in on these questions right now. Instead, we're going to sit in Stortinget and make a settlement, and then the government is going to come up with a big message. Is it correct to believe that the parties in Stortinget will first discuss something that could be a broad settlement, and then the government will subsequently make a big deal on the same matter? When, then, is the forecast to arrive and when, if appropriate, is it to be processed?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e322	I hope that we will do this as quickly as possible. We may not agree, but if we can at least agree on some principles that will lie on the ground, I think that's important. Now I have had this job in approx. 70 days, so now I'm getting a little bit of an overview of the topic. But saying that nothing happened in the previous period that has an impact on the results that are, is wrong. We introduced the most important instrument we could have, namely to remove VAT on electronic media. I don't think you'll find any editor in any editor who doesn't think it was the most important thing we've done in a very, very long time, and that it has direct consequences for the numbers that we're now seeing in the media industry, where it's turning around. Then we're going to put forward a media responsibility law, which is also important for what's being talked about in the fight against fake news, in the fight against the unprofessional website's delivery of news without truth, which we still see leads to the issues that are happening online.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e331	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e336	I don't think you'll find one editor around in this country who's not waiting for the government to follow up on the media diversity committee's attitude, because it's almost three years since the selection was reduced, and it's a year since they introduced their settings. It was a unanimous setting with a number of suggestions. So I don't think you'll find one editor who doesn't wait for it. And that's what's really my question: When does it come? I understand that we are now going to sit in our room and discuss it, and it is possible that it is because one in government is unable to fully agree that one should discuss with the big parties. The centre batch shall be willing to implement operational measures. But we also need to get a follow-up from the government, we need to get a big message on these questions. And my question is, when does it come? Shall we wait until the next spring before it is treated? The question is also addressed: Will it contain what the Centre seems to be one of the most important measures promoted here, namely exemption from the employer's fee for a limited period of time? Now it has been so long since that proposal that one of the three years of the time-limited period has now passed. [[President clubs]] When, if any, does such action come?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e345	That's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e351	The representative is quite right that this has been so long that a good part of the assumptions in the sample assessment has also changed from the figures we now see in the media industry. We are ready to deliver this as quickly as that is, but I hope that it will be possible to agree on some principles that will lie at the bottom. This, I believe, is a field in which one should make sure to have broad consensus. If it is that you can agree on some principles that can be at the bottom, we will soon have a big message made on the basis of it, and is that we can also agree on some of the arrangements, I believe that there will be a clear strength in the matter. So I hope we can do this as quickly as possible. We're at least ready to start the work, and we're ready to deliver as soon as it's physically possible, including in this room. But turning this into a battlefield, I think I'm stupid about media policy, because this is an area where you should have the broad consensus.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e360	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e365	This is definitely an area where you should have the broad consensus, but it's also an area where you can no longer push things in front of you. Now, the fourth or fifth year we hear government councils from the blue-blue government say we have to wait until we get broad settlements before we can implement something in this area. Now something actually has to happen soon. It's positive if there's a settlement in ours, but it also has to manifest itself in a big message that obligates the government financially. The council can rhetorically say that we others are not going to use this as a battlefield, but we can also rightly claim that for several years we have called for this, in fact I have done it together with the council when she was in opposition. So something has to happen soon. Conciliation is good, but we must also get a financial commitment from the government on the instruments proposed by the Media Diversity Committee. That's what's important here. Then I get a little thought when the Council of State says that some of the tools are out of date. Is she really serious? The centre party believes that the exemption from the employer’s fee is a very important instrument. Does the Council of State also think it still is?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e374	I must inform the Council of State that it is no longer a blue-blue government, it has become a blue-green. I can also reassure the Council of State that this is one of the fields that I think is the most important reason to be Minister of Culture, because this is the most urgent thing to do with. Once we have invited all the parties – that letter is going to go out in the course of the week – we do not go into that meeting with a final plan for what we think about one or another. We're going to present the facts so that everyone can see the arguments for and against. Then we have to be willing to give in to something if we're going to be able to get a consensus. I'm not going to say either yes or no to any instrument here, and I'm going to give everyone a fair chance to fight for their things in that room. Then I hope that we will at least agree on some principles and perhaps on a governance model that will allow us to create some broad consensus in the Storting – either sooner or later.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e381	The president would like to point out that Marit Arnstad is a big-time representative, not a state council. Then we move on to the next main question – from the representative Arne Nävra.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e388	Yes, I am a representative, and my question goes to Minister of Transport Ketil Solvik-Olsen. This is a question that I've been thinking a lot about, and which I hope the Council of State can deepen for me today. It concerns his love for major motorway projects and their social benefits. The more I go into this, the more I sit back wondering. Is it just some kind of ideology for big roads, or is it professionally justified needs? If the government believes anything about the climate agreement, by bringing down the greenhouse gas emissions, by achieving the zero growth target for urban car traffic, by achieving a nodal development in cities and agglomerations, how is it possible for the council and the government to build quadruple motorways at the same time or before the railway is built on parallel routes? A clear logic for me supported by quite a lot of research, to which I would like to refer in a debate on other platforms later, tells me that the traffic base is being turned away from the railway if the parallel construction of the four-field motorway is built. Let me take the Ringerix track as an example – not that it was exposed, because it is bad enough. Here they have added the simultaneous expansion of E16 and the double-track railway to Henfoss. In addition to leaving the more environmentally friendly Åsa option, I will also let it lie, even if it was bad enough. You're going to have 5 billion. kr for very low use and heavy environmental loads? Does the Council of State not see the obvious logic in terms of climate and traffic considerations, that the railway should be built first, and then gain experience from it and see whether there was at all a need for a four-field motorway to Hønefoss, possibly a downscaled, upgraded existing road?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e397	There is no ideology in building four-field highways, but a practical approach to making a society work, just as one wants a society to work on building more railways. Each mode of transport has different functions. They work best when one adopts an overall approach and does not choose one mode of transport and think it has to meet all needs — it is not. We have to have good shipping along the coast, we have to have good airports because of long distances, we have to have good railways for freight and for commuting into and out of cities – not least – and we have to have good roads, both highways and local roads. Our everyday life is quite diverse. Some people live and work right next door to each other, so that you can walk or bike – I recommend, I do it myself pretty much when there is no ice on the roads. Others live and work so that going to the train station or bus station is the most rational, and then you should do it. But for others again, it is actually like using the car is the most sensible thing – either because you have a specially curved travel path, or because you are simply a craftsman and work and have the office in the car, etc. Making sure that the right type of infrastructure is built in the right place is part of the job we have done in the national transport plan. Making sure you build the right capacity is also part of the important job. The approach taken by the representative here can be said to have been used with poor experience through Østfold, where two-field highways were built, which almost all local politicians now say should have been built as a quadruple highway. It is an animal and poor approach by trying to develop and build as little as possible in the hope that people’s transport needs will not exist. That is why this government and today's majority are building the four-field motorway where it is important and necessary. I don't think that means that people don't want to take the train, if you also have a good train offer on the side, because the train gives some qualities on the journey that the car doesn't give. It gives you the opportunity to sit and work in a completely different way. For commuters to be able to open their PC as soon as they are on the train, there is working time that a car does not provide. But the car provides a flexibility that the train does not provide. Then we must have respect for both needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e404	I thank you for the answer even though the Council of State really does not answer the question. Doesn't the Council of State see that if you build a four-field motorway parallel to the railway, you somehow take the foundation away from the railway? Does the Council not see the need for a four-field road after the construction of a double-track railway? I think I'll stop there, otherwise the Council of State won't answer the first part of the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e409	I answered that question. In the last part, I pointed out that different people have different needs when they're out traveling. Some people need flexibility because they do not necessarily have to go from railway station to railway station. They might have to go from a place that is three miles from the nearest railway station and end up at a place that is four miles from the second railway station. Then the car is the rational one. For others, however, who are going to commute from the center to the center, or who are going to spend a lot of time working, the railway is just preferable. The representative was also concerned with emissions. Then I just have to point to the evolution we now have. If you look at the sales figures on car statistics for March, one third of new cars are now registered in Norway, electric cars. They're cars with zero emissions. If you look at the sales statistics for the other cars, we've now reached the targets we've set for 85 grams of CO 2 or less. That means, over the next 10–15–20 years, the cars that run on our roads are going to be largely zero-emission-free. That also applies to the buses, and they are also part of the collective solution. We must not allow today's or yesterday's problem to prevent us from seeing what kind of infrastructure we need tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e419	There will be follow-up questions – first Arne Nävra.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e424	It seems to me that the Council of State does not take on board that you might be able to cope with the path that exists for those who need to use a car, whether it's electric or it's on fossil fuel. I hope they disappear on fossil fuel. I would also like to inform the Council of State that I am buying the new Leaf on Thursday. Another angle to the question that I've been thinking a lot about is how it's possible to go into a money-lugging motorway project that's kind of going to solve the traffic problems on the E18 westward from Oslo – the West Corridor, which there's been a lot of talk about, in 11 billion. kr or more. Project started. At best, problems move inwards towards the city if these projects are implemented. All the research points to that. In addition, a report from TØI some years ago concluded that better roads largely result in increased greenhouse gas emissions. The main reason is that improvements in the road network increase average speed and, of course, the volume of transport increases. There are new cars coming in on the roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e432	So first let's think about how people choose to travel. They all, most people today choose to travel by car or bus. This means that a good infrastructure must be provided for that type of vehicle. Nevertheless, almost half of the investments that today's majority want to make in infrastructure over the next 12 years, go to the railway. If the representative Nävra believes that the railway is the most important one to bet on, there is no doubt that then he should vote on the blue-green government, because we have almost doubled the level of investment compared to when SV himself put into government. We're making sure to maintain the railway where it's already expired, there's more departures, there's more new train sets, there's more working in the railway to deliver better services, and there's better customer satisfaction than before. In the case of emissions from the vehicle, I am convinced that the vehicles will be emission-free. In the case of four-field motorways, I have driven a lot of Stavanger-Oslo. Now the queues at Holmestrand are gone. Traffic safety has been greatly increased. I don't think there's anyone who wants to have back the two-field road where we've now got four fields.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e439	Arne Nävra – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e444	Governments are mixing different angles. Now he answered the angle on the first question. The angle on my other question was about the West Corridor and the fact that you cannot build yourself out of traffic problems by creating more fields towards a city. Just so that they in this room don't think I'm going to go in empty words, I can refer to ten-twelve reports where it is concluded that increasing road capacity in queue urban transport systems increases traffic and that all research is unambiguous on this, for example. Todd Litman, 2015, Generated traffic: Implications for transport planning and R.B. Noland and L.L. Lem: A review of the evidence for induced travel and changes in transport and environmental policy in the US and the UK. I could mention many more publications, which the Council of State would like to receive afterwards. Does not the Council of State take into account the research results published with this very conclusion?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e451	When I reflect on what I hear in the question, I think it's not strange the previous government didn't get so much done if this was the discussion you had every time you talked about building a road or a railway. I am very happy that today's majority have been told that we are going to bet on both, because both have a role to play – together and separately. As far as the West Corridor is concerned, I recall that it is primarily a collective, pedestrian and bicycle project. I see that the representative shakes his head, but then we can sit down and discuss how much of this is about motorway, and how much is about actually making sure that the buses can provide a better service locally. It's about getting the road away from where people live, getting it into the tunnel and getting better traffic clearance. It's just pointing at the Opera Tunnel here in Oslo. With the logic SV has, the Opera Tunnel should not be built. I don't think there's a single person in Oslo who today means that you want the traffic back where it went, to build it was betting on road traffic. On the contrary, it’s about the local environment, it’s about being able to develop local areas and develop a city. That is also what the West Corridor is primarily about.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e458	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e463	My question goes to the Minister of Culture. When the expanded government presented its new platform earlier this year, the Christian People's Party reacted that a government platform for the first time omitted the reference to our Christian and humanistic values as the basis for government policy. But both the Minister of Culture and others from the Government Parties confirm the continuing importance of this basis of values, as well as their intention to pursue an ongoing active and supportive policy of faith and life. For the Christian People's Party, an active, supportive belief and life-view policy is important for several reasons, as the Church has had a historic role that has been crucial in the construction of the society we have today, with an inviolable human dignity, high trust in each other and a strong culture of volunteering. But we also need to understand that religious communities and houses of God still have an important role for people today, both as communities and as physical spaces that allow for the worship of the holy and wonder at the mysteries of life. In addition, the church and the churches represent gathering places for us when we need it most, in the face of life crises, death and other major challenges. In such situations, these communities contribute to a competence and sustainability that should be recognised and valued by politicians as well. Therefore, the Christian People's Party believes that belief and life views are at the heart of the question of what kind of society we want. So my question to the Minister of Culture, who is also the Council of State for Church, Faith and Life’s Viewpoint, is therefore: What does an active, supportive policy of faith and life for the Minister of Culture mean?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e474	I have to start by complaining about the title use in the previous answer, but I think maybe I'm a little damaged by having been on the second speaker chair for 17 years. I'll try to tighten up. I thank you for the question, and I thank you for the understanding that has spread over the Christian People's Party, that the sail for government platforms is high, the Constitution is being hacked. It says something about the value base of Norway, and it contains Section 16, which says that we should strive to have a strong Norwegian people's church, but we will treat all religious communities in Norway equally. There are principles that I think are very strong in most parties in this room, and there are things that we're going to discuss in the future when we're getting important things about developing the Church of the People and also supporting other religious communities. To the question of what one means by having the broad people's church: for me and the government, it is important to have a people's church that has a breadth and support in the people, that accompanies the development of society, and that is based on the activity of its members. I think, if one sees the world community at large right now, that having good financial instruments at the bottom of religious communities, where membership is what counts, not for example. links with other countries are becoming more important and important. My nightmare world is a Christian world funded by oil money from Texas and a Muslim world funded by oil money from Saudi Arabia. The fact that the funding of religious communities is based on membership, and that power is based on the members of the religious community, I think are important principles for having an active life-view policy and a life-view policy that is rooted in the Norwegian people.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e483	Thanks for the answer. I look forward to the opening of the Church Meeting in Nidarosdom next week – the magnificent church building that is a piece of Norwegian history that testifies to a time when kingship and church power went hand in hand. Last year the Church marked independence from the state, and there has been a great deal of agreement both inside and outside the Church that there is a natural development. There is also an agreement that the Norwegian Church is still in a special position in the Norwegian visionary landscape. The former Jeløya Platform, referred to by the Minister of Culture as a working document, states: ‘The Norwegian Church has a historical and sizeal speciality, which is recognised [[...]] I would like to add that the Norwegian Church also has a special role to play in conveying and carrying some basic common values, narratives and rituals. I would also like to ask the Minister of Culture how she wants to justify the special position of the Norwegian Church. And how does she think quite specifically that this distinction should be ‘recognized’ – and again I quote the platform – ‘without the principle of non-discrimination being rocked’?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e497	The Norwegian Church is the largest religious community. That means it has a special position, and then it has always had a special role in some of the tasks it has been assigned by the community. Some of them are natural that the Church still has, some are natural that the Church also shares with other religious communities, for example. to have health services, that we also have other religious communities that offer the kind of support we see that we need both within prisons, hospitals and all the functions that it is important to have religious leaders to exercise. But it is clear that the size of the Church and the support of the Church in the people make it have a special position. And then it has a special position because it manages a lot of our cultural heritage. When you name Nidarosdomen as an important building, it is an important cultural building also for Norway, not just a property for the Church. It's our common property, our common cultural heritage.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e502	There will be follow-up questions – first Geir Jørgen Bekkewold.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e507	It is reassuring to hear that the Minister of Culture wants to pursue a continuing supportive policy of faith and life. This is not only about the collective life of religious communities, but also about the individual's right to belief from cradle to grave. We know that freedom of faith is threatened in many countries, but there is also a group here to countries where freedom of belief is under pressure, and it is people who, for various reasons, are recipients of health and care services. It may be disabled, or it may be older. The right to exercise faith applies throughout life to all citizens. That is why several representatives of the Christian People's Party recently promoted a proposal in this Chamber. It shall contribute to ensuring freedom of belief also for those who are recipients of, inter alia: health and care services. I would like to ask the Council of State how she will contribute to the fact that freedom of belief is valid for everyone from cradle to grave, even at the stages we may be receiving health and care services.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e515	Freedom of faith is important, and belief is important to have in a society. Now, when we're going to present a big message with a new common law in this field, we hope to present it with also a message part, just to get the basic debates while we're going to make the practical solutions. I notice that in this area we often discuss a principle that everyone supports, but when we are going to find the practical solutions in everyday life, those principles are often pushed away by other principles. We had a debate in Stortinget for only a short time back on how we're going to use these devices to promote equality within the religious communities, and where the limit goes where we're going to be willing to use our law, and where the limit goes where we say that religious communities are going to decide the sea. I hope that if we get a message and a law at the same time, we will be able to understand both the principles and the law and the practicality of the principles we otherwise agree on.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e520	Geir Jørgen Bekkevold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e525	Thanks for the answer. Just out of curiosity: we've got a report, the Steelset report, which in itself deserves a message of its own because it raises a discussion about more than money and more than law, but more about where the place of faith in the public space is going to be. Now the council says we're going to get a proposition with a message part. Does that mean that we can't expect our own message based on the Steelset report, which is incredibly exciting in view of being able to raise a slightly broader debate of faith and life that isn't just about hirab and all these things that appear very quickly? Does Stortinget now have to consider a case of law with a small part of the message, or can we expect something more?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e532	The cancellation can expect both a law case and a notification case that comes at the same time. We hope that they can be dealt with at the same time in Stortingen, and that the Committee will submit to a discussion where the notification part will receive a report worth considering. This is our response to the challenges of the Steelset Committee. But I think that this whole debate would have worked out if we had dealt with principles at the same time as we are dealing with law. As I said, we agree on a lot of principles here in the hall, but when it comes to cooking down to a law, it's sometimes that principles are going to crash. That balance I think you should have at the same time, and that's why I want the Storting to treat this at the same time. I can't influence that. It is the representative Bekkewold better to influence than I do, but we are at least going to make sure that the Storting gets this together and can deal with it collectively. I think religion policy would have stood up to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e537	Hans Fredrik Gruvan – for follow-up questions..
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e542	The Christian People's Party is concerned that freedom of belief applies to everyone throughout their lives. It is not that people are granted freedom of faith when they are 18 years old – or 15 years old for that matter. The right of children to believe is enshrined in the Convention on the Rights of the Child. That is why the Christian People's Party believes it is unfortunate that there is no longer a grant for the training of faith or membership of religious communities for children and young people under 15 years of age, such as the bill that has been consulted. This kind of policy is based on what we think is a serious misunderstanding, namely that a godless upbringing is a neutral growth. That's not the case. That is why I would like to ask the Minister for Culture: how will she ensure the freedom of the faith of young people? Is the actively supporting belief and life-seeking policy also applicable to children and young people?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e549	This is one of the things that we're going to come back to in the message, and the government is going to have its conclusion, and that there's going to be a debate about here in the Stortinget. So I'm not going to conclude in advance. What I want to say is that I support the representative in, is that children have the right to have both their opinions and their beliefs, and whether non-religious education is the only neutral. That's where I share the representative's views. But we have to find the right flip points here. We have received an incredible number of hearings. We're organizing it now. Then we come back to the conclusion on how to enforce it, when we bring the matter to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e556	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e561	Mahatma Gandhi said it this way: A nation's greatness and its moral progress can be measured by how it treats its animals. In Norway today, we have a practice where we keep our four large predators on the brink of extinction. Wolves are considered critically threatened in Norway, bears are considered highly threatened, gloats are considered highly threatened, and you are considered highly threatened. The government’s response to this situation has been to implement the largest vulture act in the last four to five years since 1919, to reduce the population of gloat well below the stock target, and to send out consultation proposals to extend the moulting period into the breeding season — to mention something. I perceive that the Council of State Elvestuen itself has an authentic commitment to nature and animals, but I am more uncertain as to whether the government is genuinely interested in taking care of the animals that belong in Norwegian nature, based on the actions taken and the decisions taken. My question to the Council of State is therefore: What is the plan of the Council of State, now that he has become hot in the trough, to get the predators out of the red list?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e572	Now there's a new blue-green government, and it says in the statement that we're going to have viable populations of the big predators. And the description that the wolf is critically threatened, and that also the three other large predators are strongly threatened, is correct. The framework for the policy I am pursuing is twofold. We're going to follow up the Berne Convention, we're going to follow the Nature Diversity Act, and then I'm going to deal with the big decisions that have been made – both for the 2011 predatory settlement and the stock targets that have been set there, and also for the majority of the wolf settlement two years ago. Within that framework, we will pursue a policy towards predators that will reduce the level of conflict. There is, of course, a two-fold objective, with the prioritisation of grazing animals in some areas and the prioritisation of predators in other areas. In one area, this works – the sheep losses have fallen by over 40 pst, and the losses of wild rain have fallen by 27 pst. Then we're also going to have an administration that ensures the predators within these limits. That means that this year's rattlesnake permit is set in such a way that we expect the population to rise. There's no doubt that the extraction of yerv was too big last year, so we're below the stock target and have to look at the possibility that the stock might come up. Here, the means we have must be fine-tuned every year to follow up the decisions of the Storting while at the same time being within the commitments of the Natural Diversity Act and the Berne Convention.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e581	In the nation yesterday, it emerged that the Left will vote against increasing the stockpiles of wolves, yews, gloats and bears – despite the fact that the Left went to the elections on the opposite side. The head of the Energy and Environment Committee, Ketil Kjenseth from the Left, says to the Nations that ‘here we simply see one of the consequences of going to government’. Can the Minister for the Environment confirm that the Left is no longer associated with the Green Party in this matter and that one accepts that it is the Right and the Advance Party's predatory policy that has been fully won by the Blue Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e589	I do well to confirm that what we as the government are going to follow up is the decisions made by previous magnification, both in the previous period, with the majority that was then, who set the stock targets for wolves, and what is in the 2011 stock targets for the other large predators. But we also need to follow up on the Berne Convention and what is in the nature diversity law, and it sets the framework for the work that the government is going to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e596	There will be follow-up questions – first Per Espen Stoknes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e601	I understand that the Left is going to vote against what they went to elections on. If we're going to be able to lift the wolf population away from the status of "critically threatened" on the Red List, we need to get more grips. The stock target needs to be increased, and there is also room for several family groups within the existing wolf zone. In addition, we should consider the extension of the zone. There have now been wolves in the East for several years, which have been well received by the Oslo people most, and by many of those who use the East for outdoor life. Will the State Council consider extending the wolf zone to Nordmarka and Krokskogen?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e610	I believe that there is no doubt that you have a wolf in East Marka has been an enrichment for Oslo. It is a quality at East Marka that I think there are many who have not been aware of there, both their own people and their own country, and which I think is truly enriching. Although we are now within the stock targets and are to follow the Storting framework and the law, it is clear that we need to have an evaluation of the predatory policy we have, an evaluation of whether we make the right decision, or whether we can make adjustments in the years to come – but I have to come back to the Storing later.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e617	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e622	In the Easter week, the International Natural Panel launched a difficult report on the status of global natural diversity. The conclusions here are gloomy: the food security, the economy and the quality of life for all of us are at risk. The natural diversity in all parts of the world is declining. More than three billion people suffer because of ruined nature. This wallpaper costs us more than 10 pst. the economy of the world. It exacerbates climate change, which in turn exacerbates desertification and makes it more difficult to reverse. At the same time, the report also shows that restoration of damaged nature pays off. We get again ten times the investments in the form of cleaner water, cleaner air, more food – all that nature gives us. In Norway, 21 is pst. of our species endangered. It is mainly because their areas of life are being destroyed. Two years ago, when the Council of State of Elvestuen himself was a representative of bigoting, he and Stortinget adopted several measures to prevent more nature being destroyed, including: at 10 pst. the forest shall be protected and that 15 pst. of the degraded ecosystems shall be restored by 2025. The Committee considered that around 400 so-called priority species should be designated, which was the objective of the law. Now, nine years after the law came into force, only 13 species have received such protection. Our new Environment Minister started his career with the need to defend the call for 103 new oil exploration areas the day after the launch of the Jeløya platform. What concrete steps are being taken to follow up the decision of the Storting in relation to the treatment of the nature diversity notification?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e631	First, I have to say that the report from the Natural Panel is really discouraging if you look at the global situation, in terms of loss of nature, loss of species diversity and population size. So here it has to be worked not only internationally, but at all levels, from international cooperation to the local responsibility that needs to be taken into account in the individual cases. I am pleased that the representative of Moxnes is very pleased with the nature diversity message, which was presented and adopted in the previous big time period. I am also very pleased with it and the goals it has set. As for the scope of the measures now to be implemented to follow it up, I am not going to have time to go into all of them, but it is about bringing up more priority species and more priority cultural landscapes and all the measures within the framework set. I think we should be satisfied that the natural management system is quite good in Norway. It is about driving it forward and implementing more concrete measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e640	In November, the then State Council of Helgesen answered a question asked here in the Questionnaire that he had commissioned the Directorate to prepare a package of endangered nature that would cover around 90 species and 60 natural habitats. It is a good start to reach around 400 priority species, which were the target of the adoption of the Nature Diversity Act and were repeated by the Energy and Environment Committee in 2016. My question is, when will this notified package come, and what does the Minister do to select the remaining around 387 species that will be needed to achieve the target of 400 priority species?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e647	This has to be taken after each other. The first is that this package will be developed via the Environment Directorate and will be presented. The exact time I have to get back to, but the first parts of it have to be close at hand, in terms of both priority species and priority natural areas. Priority cultural landscapes are also worked with the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. That'll be the first. Then there's the work done to achieve the goal of protecting 10 pst. of the forest. In the last four years, almost 1.5 billion have been used. kr on this. It's the same amount that was spent on the eight previous years. There is a great deal of work that needs to be done to achieve the goals, but there is no doubt that there is more to be done in this field than it may ever have been done in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e654	There will be follow-up questions – first the Bears of the Moxnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e659	The newspaper referred to the reports of the Natural Panel, and then the Council of State stated to the newspaper that the most important thing in the future is to take better care of Norwegian nature, with a ‘whole ecosystem-based management’ – which sounds good. How does the government’s programme policy – which, according to the JELUEA platform, will facilitate the so-called profitable production of oil and gas and continue today’s practice of regular concessional rounds on Norwegian soil – fit into this global ecosystem-based management, all the time we know that climate change and natural disasters belong closely together, and that Norway’s oil sector emissions also contribute to destroying species’ habitats worldwide?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e667	To have an eco-based approach and governance is, of course, to have overall governance. We have to get a lot better at looking at the whole thing, not just at what are the protected areas. It is nature as a whole that must be followed up – not only to preserve biodiversity but also to preserve population sizes. A lot of policy needs to be developed here in the years to come, as we have also talked about in terms of both priority species, protected landscapes and protected forests. In Norway, we will lead the fight for better, stronger climate action. Then we have to do it in all areas, we have to work internationally to get an enhanced Paris Agreement, international commitments, and it has to go all the way down to getting our own reductions in Norway. There it will be important to reach agreement with the EU, with 40 pst. reduction up to 2030. Getting a commitment in Norway does not stand up to what is our own goal. As far as petroleum policy is concerned, we have had important natural areas – the Lofoten, the Vestralen, Senja, the ice edge and other areas – which also set a framework for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e674	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e679	In the context of the ratification of the Paris Agreement in June 2016, the current representative of the Grand Duchy of Elvesuen stated that it is essential that all countries, especially the richest countries of the world, should adjust their ambitions in the nationally determined contributions to 2020. Furthermore, the then representative Elvesuen said it was positive that the Stortinget, in connection with the ratification of the Paris Agreement, asked the government to come back to Stortinget with a proposal for reinforced climate objectives in advance of the dialogue to be held in 2018 on how to proceed. These were wise words. My question is: how does Elvesuen state council address these opinions of the then representative Elvesuen, and how does he intend to follow up that decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e686	I can then confirm that the Council of State, Elvestuen, is very much in agreement with the representative of Elvestuen. The most important thing about the Paris Agreement is that we get to the continuous reinforcement, that it becomes the virtue of this agreement, that there is international cooperation, that there are national obligations, but also where both businesses, organisations, local authorities and all the way down to individuals know responsibility and feel that what they are doing is important, and that what they are doing must be constantly strengthened. Then we need a process in Norway to work with our reinforced goals. It is quite clear, as I also said in my previous reply, that an agreement with the EU of 40 p.m. reduction by 2030 is crucial, not least because it creates a commitment to what we have to do, and it creates a commitment regardless of what the majority of the Storing looks like in the years to come. In addition to that – and there is no contradiction in it – you have to set your own goals. Now we're going to have the process towards 2020. Then we'll come back to the Stortinget, when Fiji has got the leadership of the COP, with the so-called Talanoa dialogue. During COP24 for the autumn, there shall be a discussion – not to set new targets, but – on the new objectives, to be notified by 2020. I would like to invite the Stortinget to have a debate on this. I think it's right at this point to have a debate about it. We're also going to be part of the talks and dialogue in the COP coming in the autumn, before we're going to present our plan and our recordings in 2020. We have said that when we have the agreement with the EU in place, we will also come back to Stortingen with an action plan on how to implement these projects in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e699	I thank you for the answer, and I look forward to the dialogue we are going to have with the government here from Stortinget on these very central questions about the COP, which was mentioned. But I want to follow-up on the relationship between international and national requirements, because there is a broad consensus that, in the case of the ETS, we should seek to achieve our emission targets in close cooperation with the EU. It has a large majority in the Stortinge behind it, and I think it will stay standing. But is it not precisely in this that the government, especially before the entry of the Elvessu State Council into the government together with the Left, placed great emphasis on the fact that in the non-quota sector it was precisely through the effort allocation mechanism that many of these commitments were to be made in cooperation with the EU in such a way that they were actually opened up to buy out of making important and demanding national choices here at home? So I'm a little incomprehensible to the claim that there's no contradiction to this, and I'd like the Council of State to complement that point.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e706	No, I really don't think it's any different. The most important thing right now is to reach an agreement and agreement with the EU, so that we put ourselves on the same footing as countries in the EU in terms of how we will achieve the target of reducing emissions by 2030. The expectations are that we will get a demand that we reduce by 40 pst. towards 2030. 40 pst. in twelve years is going to be very demanding. On the Jeleia platform, the commitments are that we should take as much of this as possible in Norway. There is no contradiction between having a commitment and agreeing with the EU and then setting their own national targets. EU countries are also doing so. You have that in the Netherlands, you have it in Sweden, you have it in Germany. We also need to look at how much of this we are able to do in Norway — while it is true that we are part of the European Union’s efforts to achieve this goal together. We must also be able to have the flexibility that lies there.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e711	It opens up to follow-up questions – first the representative Åsmund Aukrust.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e716	In 2015, when the blue-blue government, in cooperation with the Left and Christian People's Party, agreed on climate goals, the left-wing leader said: ‘This is a historic shift in climate policy. We're no longer going to buy ourselves free with fictional facsimiles and UN quotas." It was called a "historical line break". Now, for three years, there has been a lack of agreement with the EU. Now we hear the Minister say that the most important thing now is that we have an agreement with the European Union. That has been said for three years by three ministers. When this was launched, it was said that this would be so tight that everything had to be done at home. It is followed up with a big message that is really about how to avoid doing the most at home. So the time for the quota purchase was definitely not over with the Left's entry into the government. We have now received a climate policy where no one can answer what is Norway's climate target, and what should be our emission figures. Will the Council of State make sure the Storting will get it?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e726	But the climate targets are increasing, and by 2020 we are dealing with the Kyoto Protocol, how we follow it up. It also implies the purchase of allowances, it is a necessity to achieve the objectives, and it has also been a driving force for the previous government. Then it's the climate deal, with its goal of getting down to 48.6 million. tons, as far as I remember – getting as close as possible. Then climate policy does not stand still. On the contrary. You used to show the electric car sales here, which were up to 37 pst. last month, 20 pst. last year, the effort in public transport, the effort in green shipping – there are nearly 40 zero-emission ferries on the way. We do things in the transport sector in Norway that no other country is near. This is about doing things as quickly as possible, while at the same time creating a system, towards both 2020, 2030 and later on, which ensures that we are driving this policy forward and making it stronger and stronger.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e733	Åsmund Aukrust – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e738	It was not an answer to the question of whether we will achieve national targets in the climate strategy we are now addressing. When Ola Elvestuen himself sat on the Stortingen half a year ago, he said that what's important is that everyone who wants to take part in the green shift knows what goals they're going to relate to, and how much they're going to cut in the time that's coming, here at home. That the government has not been clear on this is a significant weakness in the climate communication. This must be left to correct. Now it is Ola Elvestuen himself who is the climate minister, and who is going to do exactly what he says, to make sure to correct what the previous government did wrong. So my clear question to Ola Elvestuen is: Will he ensure that there will now be clear targets in the climate strategy that the Stortinget will address during April-May?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e746	It was submitted before I came. What is important now, as I have said before, is that we should follow up on reaching an agreement with the European Union on how to achieve the target of 40 pst. reduction by 2030. That is a clear and clear objective. The 2020 targets are there. Then we will have a process, as I mentioned, with the Talanoa dialogue with the EU and also in the COP in the autumn on how to strengthen the targets, both as a country and together with the EU, towards 2020. This must be reported to the EU. So the government of the Jeløya platform has said that when we have agreement with the EU, we will present an action plan on how to achieve these goals by 2030. As I said, one thing is the commitments contained in the international agreement we need with the rest of Europe – it will commit the size, commit all parties – and then it is to set the figures. There is no contradiction between that and having own targets, but this will come back to the government when we have an agreement with the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e757	Arne Nävra – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e762	It is a well-known matter that the climate targets for 2020 have been abandoned by this government. The targets have been pushed out in time, and now, of course, applies in 2030. It's the easiest thing to do. I expect the Left has more ambitions for emissions cuts in Norway than the Right Party government had. We received that, among other things. hearing from the last representative, how the Council of State was in a way confronted with previous positions. This is the question, in order to follow up the Aukrus question: What new measures can we now expect that will cut emissions, as a result of greater ambitions in the climate field in Norway? I would ask that the Council of State be quite specific. Not only do I expect that, but I'm sure the Left's voters as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e769	It's going to be a big width of. I mentioned green shipping, which is operated forward within the different vessel categories. There is not one instrument that works in this respect. It's about following up the weaknesses of industry and industry, which we've been working on in green competitiveness. There's a lot of sides to look at. It is not at all that the 2020 targets are stated, but it is terribly difficult to achieve them – terribly difficult. We're betting as much on zero emissions as we can, and at a pace that no other country is near. And then we're going to fill in with measures for the use of biofuels, with all of the dilemmas that this represents, that the representative knows very well. It's not just running on as much as possible. We also need to ensure that it has a quality, including an environmental quality, that it can be used, and that it has to be done in such a way that it receives investment in what is advanced biofuels over time. I do not think the representative has any simple solutions for how to do this faster by 2020. We're at the forefront of what's possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e776	The next main question is from Siv Mossleth.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e781	My question goes to the Minister for Transport. During Easter we witnessed many closed roads in the north. Nord-Troms and Finnmark were this time hardest hit by the snow races that led to closed roads. A number of settlements and agglomerations were unconnected — and it lasted several days — because of race. Only on the E69 went 40 races during the Easter week. Well, we can say that it's funny that human life didn't go along with these many races, and we hear that people are considering moving because of uncertainty. Breeding teams and local people have been on to get their everyday lives around, but unfortunately the government has over time down-prioritized scaffolding, especially on the highway network. In the state budget for 2014, which was the last of the red-green government's proposals, the grant for roadside protection on the national road network was $1150 million. kr. For 2018, it is 638.2 million. kr. That's a reduction of over 500 million. kr, and in the new NTP there is also no very high level of ambition to secure the road network against slip. But let me get the Council of State a little bit in advance this time, because I know that the Council of State is spending time in the Questionnaire and in a line change to tell you that the government has overfilled the NTP. He might as well say that the government has spent as much money as the red-green government has added to the transport plan for 2014-2023. But the question is, with the down-priority that this blue-blue government and Solvik-Olsen have stood for, what will the Council of State say to those who live on their roads with a pacebreak? And do we want to see a change in priorities?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e792	Let me first give tribute to all those in the State Road Service in local municipalities and in counties who have done a job trying to keep the road open. There's been a lot of snow in some areas, and there's been a lot of bad weather. It has created challenges on the part of nature. Nevertheless, there is a clear – almost heroic – to keep some roads open. In other places they have been shut down, simply because of their availability and security. They deserve honor, and I also see that the Road Service is working hard to open roads. So it's not right that the government has down-prioritized this area. I think it is good that the Centre Party admits that today's government has fulfilled the electoral commitments that we ourselves made in the 2013 election campaign, and has carried out much of what we agreed on in the national transport plan. But we have also done much more – so we have over-filled the national transport plan, because we thought it was too little effort that the red-green government had made. This applies, inter alia, to: on the road network in North Norway. The road network in North Norway has tripled the investment level in 2014-2017, compared to 2010-2013 – a triple. It doesn't give the impression of a down-priority, but a powerful prioritization. In the current year, North Norway is the second largest part of Vegvesen's investment funds. Once again, it's a wrong image created by the Center Party. With regard to the appropriations for racial protection, there is also something that has been prioritised, not down. It is true that it varies from year to year, depending on which projects are then under construction, what funding is needed. But if you compare the period 2010–2013 – that is, the four-year period in which the Centre Party headed before us – and the four-year period we have now gone through, you see an increase, not a decrease. In the case of E69 to Nordkapp, it's the path that's been most exposed to right now. Many of the problems that have occurred at the most vulnerable racial points will be addressed when the new Skarvberg tunnel on the E69 is in place around 2021. So also there we're now working on solving that problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e805	It is good that the Council of State gives homage to incubators, locals and municipalities. They deserve that. That's very good. I had thought that in a situation where we experience not a day or two days, but a week with a closed road, the government would focus more on what kind of responsibility the government takes specifically for tailoring. I feel the answer so he won't change the priority. It's a fact that this year it's 500 million less than in 2014. But what will the Council of State say to all the peoples of this country who live with great pace on the roads they daily use for work travel, school road, leisure activities? How do they make everyday life work? How will he give priority?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e812	I just answered that. We're going to bet more -- we've invested more in the four-year period we went through than what was done the four years before that. We have committed to a further strengthening of the safety framework overall over the next 12 years in the national transport plan. So there will be, as I said, variations from year to year in terms of which projects are running, which are clear, how much they cost. But if you look at the bet over time, there's no doubt that there's much more to bet on on the road in general and on the slip protection now than what's been the case. The centre party refuses to admit it because it doesn't fit into the picture they're trying to draw that everything goes so badly in the districts. That's not right. I just want to remind you of the figures, which can be documented, the representative can send me a written question and ask me how much money has been allocated for road use in North Norway in 2010–2013, compared to 2014–2017. Then you'll see that it's a triple. What the Vegvesen now does more of is that they trigger the advance by using helicopters. It is also part of the prevention work to avoid accidents occurring on open roads. So it bets more.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e821	There will be follow-up questions – first Geir Adelsten Iversen.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e826	With the answer the Council of State gives, I'm not calmed down. I myself live in Hasvik and was locked up for a week. The shops ran out of goods, and we got nowhere. Even though we're used to tough weather and long journeys in the north, the sense of security goes away when the situation turns out to be what it was now. People need medicine and food. Some people need medical help and need to be transported to hospitals. Local health professionals worked at some point triple shifts to care for people. They must have all the praise they had for standing on. On the other hand, the councils saw a little more. It didn’t seem that someone took overall responsibility – besides the municipalities, who knew what local resources they could play on. We need a better coastal preparedness in such situations. Will the Council of State do anything to improve preparedness when normal years of travel are not feasible?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e838	In my previous answer, I pointed out that much of the reality description of the Center Party is incorrect. I believe that it is important to inform the Storting about, so that we do not discuss this on the wrong premises. I also pointed out that we are going to build among others. The E69 Skarvberg Tunnel, which will solve some of the challenges that have been there. The center part gives the impression that it means we don't care, it just makes no sense. The fact that the Road Service's resources are also used to trigger steps ahead in order to control the situation, and that a user's resources are also being cleaned up, shows that the Road Service has resources available. But we can't stop the snow from falling. Then we have to make sure that we handle it in the best possible way, both with road traffic clearance and not least by cleaning it up. Then it's an evaluation when this is done. Is there something we could do differently to get this even better? Can we cooperate with counties and municipalities in another way? If there are places where one sees that there was resource scarcity that meant that we didn't keep up and not just on-going bad weather, we have to be able to do things differently. That's what I'm opening up, I haven't said no to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e847	Ingenilla Olsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e852	Well overcome dream Easter in South Norway! But Norway is long, and it uses to be the opposite: when it's great south, it's bad north – and it's been. The coast of West Finland has had closed roads because of race and great snowfall. Easter holidays have been changed too many. Flights have been cancelled due to closed road, cabin trips have been cancelled, trailers with fish have been stuck, and the wartfish is well underway, and there are great values to get out quickly. My hometown, Havøysund, has had a closed road for over a week. We're used to it, but the whole community has stopped. Does the Minister for Transport assess this in such a way that the State has provided adequate emergency assistance to residents and businesses in the crippling areas along the coast of Finnmark? And to the question from Mossleth about road vehicles: I have asked a written question to the minister about funds for Finnmark, but got an answer to Nord-Norway, not to Finnmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e857	The last one is quite correct, because the Road Service itself does not distribute the money per county. However, I have registered that the representative has claimed that Finnmark has received less money, and I imagine that the representative can provide documentation on his claims. It has not yet been achieved. We have documented all of our claims. I want to pay tribute to all those in Vegvesenet who have done a great job trying to keep the roads up, who have done preventive work to trigger the steps – 40 places have done so – and who are now doing a job to open the roads again. We want, as I said, an evaluation of whether this has been good enough. I think it's natural that we also do with those who run the Finnmark County, who are the Workers' Party, to see if there's anything we can do even better both to ensure better traffic while it's bad weather and – not least – to open the roads even faster when the weather has gone down. To give the impression that this is something that has arisen now because of today's government is a bit strange. But what we're pointing out, on the other hand, is that there's more money for road construction and road maintenance in Finnmark and North Norway now than it's ever been.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e864	Let's go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e869	My question goes to the Minister of Culture. A sure spring sign is that this year's elite football series is kicking off. People flocked to the football courses on Sunday, and for many, this is the beginning of the best time of the year: the football season is finally going on. Being a pro footballer is too many a dream, perhaps especially in childhood. But living as a footballer on a team, or as a sportsman in any sport, has its sides. It is important to ensure opportunities for transition to a new career after an active life as a sportsman, football player or other. This must apply regardless of whether you are engaged in individual sports or playing football, handball or ice hockey. I would like to remind the Minister of Culture that it is only sportsmen in individual sportsmen who have access to savings in so-called exercise funds. In June 2013, the sport raised this case through NISO and wanted to remedy the unfair system. The working party said at the time that we were ready to do that. Can we now expect the government to promote a proposal that ensures fair access to savings in exercise funds, thereby giving individual and team players the same opportunities for transition to professional careers?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e880	I have also noticed that the football season has begun, and that Vålerenga is quite well off in this series – I think it was the third or fourth place last time I checked – sail if there have only been three laps, and that the more high-end towers are a little further down. I have to admit that I have not gone into the depths of what the representative is asking for, but I think it is important that the top athletes we have should have the opportunity to have a lifelong career where the football or other sports are part of their professional career, and that it should be possible to combine with other things. I really perceive that Norwegian sport is quite good at directing people to have different career paths, and that they also support many in combining education with sports careers. I feel that the understanding in Norwegian sport that people should have a lifelong professional career where sports may only be part of their professional career is quite great. I haven't had these suggestions on my table, so I have to get back to the representative about that, but I think it's important that we have arrangements that allow everyone to have a lifelong career, sail if sport is just a small part of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e889	I fully agree with the Council of State in the rose she gives to sport, which is nice to organize. Therefore, it is also important that we, as politicians, follow up and listen to sport when they point to perfectly obvious unfair schemes, schemes that we can benefit from. I have full respect for the fact that the Council of State needs time to look at the matter, but while the Council of State then thinks about and looks at the matter, I can only remind the Council of State of what the Party Left replied to NISO in 2017: ‘Yes, this discrimination against sportsmen seems unreasonable, and there is something Left that is willing to look at with a goal of changing the rules. For the Left, it is important to safeguard the independence and distinctive character of sport and civil society and it is unfortunate that political decisions make it more economically attractive to be a performer in certain types of sports.» I hope that with this quote in mind and the obvious positive attitude of the Council of State today, we may see that the Workers' Party is getting through, and that the Council of State is dialogueing with us and perhaps promoting a case, so that we get cleared up in this obviously unfair discrimination.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e901	We will look at this matter, but it must be reassuring for the representative to know what the basic position we are going into the work on.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e906	Then the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-04.ana.ud33e920	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
