ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e73	The representatives Fredric Holen Bjørdal and Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. Two permit applications are available: by the Group of the Left on sick leave of the representative Abid Q. Raja from 29 November until further notice from the representative of Fredric Holen Bjørdal on parental leave for the period from 1 December 2018 to 31 January 2019 On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For More and Romesdal counties: Tove-Lise Torve 3 December–31. January 2019 For Akershus: Solveig Schytz November 29th – until further notice
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e118	Solveig Schytz is present and will take the seat. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's Storting meeting continues beyond noon. 16 until the current map has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e138	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e147	The Nord-Jären urban environment package was adopted unanimously by Stortinget in March 2017 and was launched in October 2018. The Storting Decision is based on local decisions in all four municipalities and county councils, which are common in this type of case. The urban environment package is later hit by an urban growth rate, to which all municipalities and county councils have joined. This is an agreement that takes into account the projects and funding included in the urban environment package and at the same time demands zero growth in passenger car traffic. These agreements also trigger 50 pst. State co-financing of large collective actions, in this case Buswegen, which is an important step in expanding and improving the provision of collective services in the urban region. It has been an important principle that urban packages and toll projects are locally anchored. This also applies to the Urban Environment Package for the North-Jear and the recently concluded Urban Growth Agreement. The Labour Party is asking the government to take the initiative in a renegotiation. In this case, we believe that there will be an over-management of local authorities and a new practice. We want to see it as very unfortunate if this kind of renegotiation comes as a demand from Stortinget, and not as part of the local process. It is also a point that the process of renegotiation of urban growth agreements was already completed when the Workers' Party promoted this proposal for a representative. There is therefore good reason to ask questions about the motivation of the Workers' Party in order to promote at all a proposal for the renegotiation of an urban environment package which is enshrined in local decisions and which was adopted unanimously in the Stortinget as late as 2017. The Minister for Transport has on several occasions confirmed that if the municipalities and county councils agreed to make changes to the toll scheme, he will present this to the Stortinget. But that initiative must come from local authorities and require local consensus. That principle should be able to continue, even if we feel that the Workers' Party is faltering in this matter. In this proposal for a representative, a number of other proposals have been made in addition to the one on renegotiation. The working party wants to test out road pricing on the North-Jear. There are now two separate representative proposals on road pricing, which will be discussed in the new year. In addition, the government is already carrying out an investigation into road pricing for heavy goods vehicles. We think it makes sense to wait for these investigations and to deal with these matters before we decide on any testing. The urban environment package is also subject to portfolio management. This means that revenue and expenditure have to be reconciled. Projects in the portfolio are carried out only if they have revenues. This principle is important for efficient cost management of the Urban Environment Package. In our opinion, the Workers' Party's proposal for alternative cost increase financing will remove this incentive, which we believe is very unfortunate. In the national transport plan and in the current budgets, the government has added 50 pst. State financing of large-scale collective projects. This is a significant improvement compared to the level that we had under the red-green government. We follow this up in the annual budgets. At the same time, I would like to remind you that an increase to 70 pst, as proposed by the Workers' Party, will in the NTP period mean 10 billion. kr in increased funding for the four largest cities. This is money that in case must be taken from other important transport projects, and in our view will be a significant redistribution of funds from district to city. The right will vote against all the proposals relating to the draft representative of the Workers' Party. That the Storting will take the initiative to renegotiate the Urban Environment Package for the North-Jearth is to reverse the process. The urban environment package and the urban growth agreement are anchored in local decisions. Changes in the arrangements must come as a requirement and as a wish from local authorities. It's a principle it's important to keep going.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e168	The North-Jear Urban Environment Package is initially a positive case for the region where it will be used over 30 billion. to improve accessibility, to develop the provision of collective services and to facilitate walking and cycling. The country enters with approx. One third of this money. The municipality of Rogaland contributes by approx. One and a half billion. kr plus the operation and development of a better collective offering. 18 B.C.E. kr shall then be financed by tolls. The background to the proposal for a representative is that former Minister of Transport has raised doubts as to whether funding has been provided by large or local/local authorities and who can make changes to the Urban Environment Package for the North-Jear. We believe one must stop pretending that local and regional politicians have any choice other than tolls. It has also been communicated by the representatives of the State in the negotiations. The income system of municipalities and counties is not designed to finance as large a billion-dollar development as this infrastructure requires. We in the Workers' Party also believe that the level of tolls is now too high and affects unfairly, not only in the urban packages, but also for the other major road projects in the region. The government parties have voted against our 70 p.m. proposal. State financing of large collective investment, which would have meant that the urban packages would have, as the place was also in, close to 10 billion. kr more for the development of metropolitan regions or reduced bomb tariffs. The Progress Party also says that they are opposed to road pricing, even though the Council of State in its reply to us in this matter says something different than he said last week from the Spokesman of the Stortinge. Portfolio management means that exceedances must be financed within the framework. This means that exceedances on a national road project are to be covered by the urban package – and also by an express cycle path that Stortinget has also adopted, or by the implementation of the tunnel safety regulation. Then it becomes smaller for the other projects and perhaps also for the other projects that are most important to the city, and a better collective offer for the whole region. If one is to succeed, the state, state and municipality should agree with the premises. Population growth in our big cities and areas is great. Road networks, collective, bicycle and pedestrian routes are not designed for this population growth and not least for the expected increase in traffic, which poses both noise and climate challenges. That is why we have set targets and requirements nationally. We do that by saying that if our cities do not reach the requirement, the state will not contribute. The urban environment package is a good thing. This is something we do together, both the state, the county and the municipalities, and not least the inhabitants. We get the bus route, new and safer roads for those who cycle and walk, and new roads for those who drive, plus their own roads for collective and commercial transport – in total better access for everyone. It's really a shame that the Progress Party, with its double communication, makes it impossible to build the community that needs to develop a global climate-friendly metropolitan region. Then, on behalf of the minority, I will address the proposals of which the Workers' Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e183	The representative Kirsti Leirtrø has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e188	The party wants the government to take initiatives now to ease the burden on people on the North-Jear. The centre party participates in the presentation of proposal No. 1) on initiatives to test new technologies and road pricing, proposal No. 2, on the renegotiation of equipment at the rush time charge because we want a lower toll load for people on the North-Jear, and proposal No. 3, on clarification of processes related to the urban environment package. It is quite surreal that, after five years with a government in which the Progress Party is involved, we are going to experience a people's uprising against tolls. One of the fights for the Advance Party before the 2013 Grand Prix elections was a Norway without toll stations. Drivers throughout the country were promised that with the Advance Party in government, all toll stations would be removed, all as one. The guaranteed NOK 0 in tolls with the Advance Party in government. The result is that former Minister of Transport Ketil Solvik-Olsen has become historic as perhaps the world’s largest toll collection – at least Norway’s largest toll collection. The Central Party sees that the Minister for Transport will not take responsibility for the North-Jear toll system, but that he still requires zero growth in car traffic. Progress Party State Councils waive responsibility, but do not provide any alternative. The last time the Transport Committee had the matter up in this room, the representative Johnsen from the Progress Party in particular invited the Workers' Party, but also everyone else, to join in, so that we could get rid of these tolls. I tried, but perhaps I didn't quite manage to explain to the representative Johnsen of the Progress Party that they don't have to persuade the Labour Party and all the other parties. It actually keeps persuading the government parties and a supporting party. In this case of renegotiating the Urban Environment Package for the North-Jear, it is in fact the Workers' Party and the Centre's party which, in the form of decisions, asks the government to take the initiative for a renegotiation, and we will ‘investigate a new model of device on the Raising Time Tax that will be less burdensome to the population’. Here comes the invitation that the representative of the Progress Party asked for – I shouldn't say that he was praying on his knees, because he was standing on the pulpit, but I still saw it as a serious recommendation and the prayer that we should help to reduce the toll. However, in the Transport Committee, the Progress Party voted against this proposal, which would be a flagship for a fairer distribution of tolls. The situation is that North Jären is trapped in a network of 38 toll stations – around Stavanger, around Sandnes, around Forus and around Sola. I have understood that some people have to pay up to NOK 30 000 a year in tolls. I had hoped that we could get a new start and a new assessment to reduce the toll burden – first on the North Jären, and then maybe elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e199	Most people know enough that SV has the clear view that we need to have a combination of car regulatory measures and a strong commitment to collective, bicycle and times so that we can achieve the cross-political objectives of the Stortinget – that is as simple as that. But I agree with the local representative that it should in principle be negotiated locally. That's where the consensus is to arise. The size is going to set the framework for that debate, and we're going to put in the tools that they're going to use. We still support a renegotiation of the Urban Environment Package for Nord-Jären, but believe that the purpose of that renegotiation must be to make it easier for people to choose alternatives other than cars for the job. This is done by increasing ambitions for public transport, and by increasing ambitions for bicycles and corridors, without weakening the car regulatory measures that we know are effective. We just have to admit that: it's effective. That is why SV proposes proposal No. 6 in the setting, that the purpose of the renegotiation must be ‘to increase the bet on collectives, bicycles and corridors, including ensuring that the planned bus route is converted into urban runway’. I also think we should note – as the representatives of Leirtrø and Mossleth have mentioned – the response the Council of State gave in letters to the Committee on Transport and Communications on the question of whether it is possible to achieve the zero growth target without tolls: ‘I have more faith in measures that are positive in achieving the zero growth target, such as better public transport and better walking and cycling roads, than restrictive measures [[...]] The faith of the councils is thus strongly opposed to the conviction of his own government as expressed in the National Transport Plan, where it is very clear: «Consolidation and restrictive measures are expected to have as much importance as investments in collective, walking and cycling measures.» The government continues: ‘The road authorities of the Member States, in cooperation with the Directorate-General for Railways and Local Authorities, have carried out urban studies showing different ways of achieving the zero growth target at: [[...]] And that's what the point is: ‘tolls/road pricing, compact urban development and congestion, increased parking charges and reduced availability of parking spaces, improved collective provision, walking and cycling facilities and reduced road capacity/competitiveness of the car’.» So it's both whip and carrot. That's what works. We've seen it, we've got the fasit anywhere. That's what our research communities say, and that's what the government's own professionals say. I find it strange that the minister, in reply to the committee, is facing a different view from that of the government itself recently presented. That he can have that personal vision is now, but then it's fine if he maybe emphasizes it. SV is a party that wants justice on many levels – it is well known – both to our descendants and to the state of the planet. Therefore, we need to bring down greenhouse gas emissions, but also have as principle that the polluter has to pay. For the fair distribution of burdens: we do not want those who labor the most to be hit hardest, either by tolls or by other taxes or taxes. Then I have two comments: firstly, it is actually such – and it is under-communicated – that today’s system of tolls and rush-time charges appears statistically redistributive in several of the places where it has been implemented. Overall, surveys show that men with relatively high incomes run more during their lifetime than women and persons with lower incomes, who often use the collective offer. This means that if we strengthen collective, bicycle and times as important measures, it is also important distribution policy. But I also acknowledge that toll collection is unfortunate for individuals who can get excessive toll loads depending on how far they are running and where they live. A road pricing system where charges are calculated on the basis of how much you actually drive is more efficient and more socially fair – therefore the proposal that road pricing on the north-east is being tested, after the full investigation has been carried out, because it should be done first. SV has long believed that we need to cover a greater part of the state's costs for large collective projects, and that is why we are also involved in that proposal. I would finally like to address the SV's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e241	The representative Arne Nävra has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e246	User payments are currently a natural part of the funding base for new projects. It makes sense to extract part of the toll potential that exists, provided that there is a wish for it locally and that there is a basis for local policy decisions. That's exactly what's the whole nucleus here, local anchoring. An urban environment agreement or package shall be requested locally and shall be based on local decisions. The State then provides funds to enable it to build important projects that can benefit its citizens. The proposers will now have to take the initiative of the State for a renegotiation. The Christian People's Party likes to look at other or new solutions if there's a case about it at Stortinget, but it has to start as a local initiative. The urban environment package is part of the North-Jear urban growth agreement, and the parties have already started the renegotiation of this agreement. If there are proposals for changes to the toll package, we will of course look at it if the matter comes to Stortinget. The Christian People's Party sees that the toll load can generally reach a pain limit. In order for user payments to be maintained as part of a funding basis, it is important that the scheme does not experience unfair or very unfair. In some areas, there are trends in the density of high-priced toll stations, which may be particularly stressful for some. It would therefore make sense to look closely at the whole of the user payment system, precisely for the purpose of ensuring the most robust, fair and sustainable system in the future. Today's toll station system appears to be old-fashioned and less flexible, in our opinion. A more forward-looking, more dynamic and fair user payment system should therefore be developed. Satellite road pricing can be such a system, and I fully agree with the proposers when they bring it up, but such a system and such a conversion must be done properly and properly. That is why the Christian People's Party has made a comprehensive proposal to this effect, so that we can determine the overall cost of road pricing. We want the government to investigate and plan the introduction of satellite road pricing to replace today's toll system. We have proposed this, and I hope that the parties that are in charge of road pricing in Northern Ireland will also support us in our proposal to do so throughout the country. The framework for urban growth agreements provides for a State sub-financing of up to 50 pst. of the project costs of major county collective transport projects in the four major urban areas, including the bus route project in the Urban Environment Package Nord-Jären. I now register that the Workers' Party is once again running an over-the-counter policy. It doesn't seem very credible. Looking back at the red-green period of government, where we from the Christian People's Party tried to raise the government's share of this type of project, it was consistently no from the red-green. Now the Workers' Party wants 70 pst. State funding. An increase to 70 pst. will mean a need for 10 billion. kr extra during the NTP period. I wonder where the red-greens will cut, what projects they will postpone, or how much extra toll they will take into the districts to finance large projects in the cities. Then there are many people who experience a rush-time charge that is very unfair. This is a problem we understand. At the same time, there is an attempt to improve traffic congestion in the area today. I believe that, after all, this is the best thing we have to get better traffic resolution solutions in the period of the day where there is the most traffic. Along with a better collective offer and the development of bicycle and walking routes, I think this will in the long run provide a better situation than today, and that people will experience this as a clear improvement. I also hope that road pricing can become a technology that can be put in place in less time and provide a fairer distribution of costs in the north of Europe than at today's arrangements for tolls and rush time charges. But as it is now, it is clear that the Christian People's Party stands by the agreements we have concluded, we stand by the NTP, and we stand by the political decisions taken locally. This is not least about respect for local self-government. We therefore vote in favour of the Committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e265	I'm going to start this article a little differently than I'm using to do, simply by giving the honor to SV. In the debate we have had so far, they are the only opposition party that has behaved somewhat consistent – it is worth noting. Because I'm not too heavy a toll load than is strictly necessary, but I'm in order for the state not to take the initiative to impose people's tolls. It shall be the result of local policy decisions. The Workers' Party's proposal is, in effect, turning this upside down. When one now asks for a renegotiation of the urban growth agreement on the North-Jear, one knows – even when one suggested it, and when the committee deals with the matter, one knew it – that the renegotiations are in progress. The state's and my position, which is clearly communicated to the areas, is that there is great local flexibility through the renegotiations if everyone becomes a few about repriorities in the urban growth agreement. There are only two statements: One must now measure the zero growth rate, as the size has been calculated. The size has clarified the state funding through the national transport plan and must therefore also serve as a basis for this. Of course, it has the consequence that one cannot take on a larger bill than one is willing to pay for, once the Storting has clarified its financing. When the Central Party now calls for a reduction in the burden of tolls without increasing State funding, it is to a large extent easy to adhere to. But then the Senterpartie must be honest about what kind of project they're going to have, because the consequence is that fewer projects are being built on the North-Jear. What is the important infrastructure project that the Centre Party does not want? There must be some clarification in connection with this process. The government is stepping up its efforts on the metropolitan areas to remedy the problem of collective provision. In the national transport plan, we're going to spend 66 billion dollars. kr primarily on tasks that are not state-owned – in Oslo, on the North Jären, in Trondheim and in Bergen. There is a need to ensure that the provision of collective services is as effective as possible. At the top of it has a larger local plan than the one alone. They're the ones we're biting at, too. So choose one local — by local initiative — to use tolls as part of the funding. I have said that if one of them in Northern Ireland finds out that one will take out the project, work down the project costs or make other toll schemes, I am able to go to the Stortinget at any time, as long as there is a balance between income and expenses. You can't take an account and then run from it. But if that's the case, I'm capable of coming to Stortinget again as soon as the renegotiations that are now taking place are over. This proposal for a representative is a clear example of the fact that the opposition is not preoccupied with the realities of the matter, is not occupied with what kind of solutions a well on the north, is not concerned with the local anchoring of the tolls, but on the contrary says that the state should assume that responsibility and take the initiative in tolling cases. I am absolutely sure that the only thing that will contribute over time is a higher toll load for the caristas. That is what the Labour Party is actually addressing in this proposal for a representative – if the state is given the right of initiative on important toll issues around the country. It has to happen locally. It has been a principle, and it has to be a principle, and I am very pleased that the Storting agrees that the state should not be able to impose a certain amount of toll without it happening as a result of a local policy initiative. I am therefore pleased that the Stortinget today rejects the proposals of the Workers' Party, and I am pleased that one is still going to renegotiate the urban growth agreement on the North-Jären. Local parties have been informed that the State will contribute constructively to these negotiations, so if there is a local political desire to do other priorities than those that have been done so far, the state will also demonstrate flexibility in order to achieve a set-up with which the North-Jearth car list can live.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e289	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e295	This issue is about what authority local and regional politicians actually have when they are going to achieve goals. We see a toll riot out here. State representatives in the negotiations say that without a toll contribution there will be no contribution from the State. What really happens to local and regional politicians now says no to the whole agreement, as we see for example. in Kristiansand?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e300	It is voluntary to enter into an urban growth agreement with the state, but once a legally binding agreement has been concluded, a non-departure cannot be made from the bill. This means that the areas that have not entered into such agreements can be perfectly fine, entirely on their own initiative, denying state contributions to solve their collective challenges – and solving them themselves. We will not force any urban area that has not today entered into a legally binding agreement, to conclude them. But we offer to remedy the situation. That's what the Workers' Party didn't do when they ran. That's the whole difference. The toll load would be higher when the Workers' Party ran – including in these cities – because they didn't put money on the table. We have, but one can say no to them. For the areas that have concluded legally binding agreements, to which the Storting has addressed and concluded, we are also open to renegotiation, but this must be done as a consequence of local initiatives. This is very clear for the cities, they know what they have to stick to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e307	The city packages were established by the red-green government, and it was then, in the previous NTP that now, plans for a escalation. In this urban package there are both four-field highways and the fulfilment of the tunnel safety regulation. It is a challenge for local and regional authorities to have large exceedances. Does not the Council of State think it is right that it is the state that takes it, so that the city and the region can use the money for what is most necessary, namely better collective, bicycle and times?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e314	In the urban growth agreement for the North-Jear, the state spends more money than the state's own project would have cost. That means that we could have financed all the projects for which the state is responsible, without a penny in tolls in this urban growth agreement. I'm going to think about that. That means that the wishes that are beyond it are actually a contribution to funding with tolls into the Urban Environment Package for the North-Jear. It selects itself - one has the initiative to do it, one itself, and renegotiates the urban growth agreement. And I'm assuming that if one comes up with a change in the urban growth agreement that takes care of the concerns I've already had, I'm going to come back to the Stortinget with proposals for changes in line with the local wishes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e319	Eleven bombs around Stavanger, ten bombs around Sandnes centre, ten bombs around Forus, two bombs around Risavika, two bombs around Sola airport – and they will form a ring around these areas. In addition, there are three bombs against the municipality of Randaberg. An impact assessment shows that some people have to pay up to NOK 30000 a year in tolls, even with a discount. Is it really true that the party that promised zero dollars in tolls in the 2013 election campaign is now at the head of demanding $30,000 from the people of Northern Ireland? Is the Council satisfied with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e324	The answer to that is no. The progress party is not in the head to charge for this money. It is local political desire, will and initiative. Based on local political desires, wills and initiatives, we, as governments, have promoted the local political desires of the Storting. It has gained broad support in the Stortinget, including, as far as I can remember, the voice of the Center Party. Populism comes in many forms, but the variant that the Center Party is now running with is quite special. The center party says we shouldn't spend any more money. We're not going to have these toll projects, but they don't want to tell you what kind of road project you're going to get rid of. The centre party here is not at all credible – not at all – and I therefore believe that there is local political support for this. If a choice to renegotiate and arrive at other solutions, I will present it to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e331	Since the council had such a nice greeting to SV, I can say back that I am very pleased that he once again confirms the zero growth target for the cities, and that the council underlines it. But then the question is, how is the Council of State going to achieve that goal? We may agree that there has to be some kind of whipping – or? Is the Council of State in agreement with its professional environments – it is its own professional environment in the ministry that writes the NTPs, and the research communities in Norway – that are unisone? Also, the road manager, Terje Moe Gustavsen, has been looking up in some newspaper a few months ago where he says that tolls are effective, perhaps the most effective. Do the councils agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e336	Tolls are effective if there is a minimum traffic on the roads. I'm not going to substantiate that. One can set prices so high that no one can afford to use the roads, but then the question is why we build them out. So there's a balance here, and I've been busy that when we build infrastructure, people should also be able to use it. Then we have special challenges in the metropolitan area, and that means that a local package has to be put together, through the negotiations where the state has contributed, which means that one can reach the zero growth target. Good collective provision is crucial for it, several offers for bicycles and bicycles are important for it, land policy is important for it, and different car restrictive measures may be important for it. I admit it, but what I've said is that it's local one that has to make these decisions. There is a local one that has to make these deviations, and if the cost of the whole package had been lower, the toll burden for the car list could also be lower. This has been done locally. It's settled locally, and I stick to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e343	I thank you for your answer. It goes into a template that I've heard several times now, but in the name of honesty, we have to distinguish between highways in the districts, the motorway projects that the Progress Party loves, and the urban environment agreements, the urban growth agreements, that is, our policy for urban centres. There's a big difference. I have recorded several times that when I have had dialogue and debate with the State Council in the past, and former government councils from the Progress Party, they refer to the use of oil money; oil money can be used instead of tolls in general here in the country. Then I have to say, how much oil money can a municipality use, or a county municipality? I assume that it is those who must prioritise quite hard if they are not to put tolls on these packages.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e350	Norway has an oil smurf economy, so the municipalities and county councils are also enjoying it. We would have had significantly less income for both municipalities and county municipalities if we had not had an oil sector that delivered money to the state budget, and which we distribute further, so that's another discussion. Nevertheless, it is such that a well in some of these areas also very expensive extensions. The whole Nord-Jären package is 30 billion. And that's a terrible amount of money. If one had wanted it locally, it is quite possible – but I don't know – that one could see if all the projects were necessary, and if one could dampen the toll loads, etc. But there are local authorities that have to make those assessments, because they are the ones that are set to do them. They're the ones that the Storting asked to make these assessments. I think it's a basic healthy principle that if you're going to have tolls, it has to be done as a result of local initiatives and not as a result of government imposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e357	Of the four municipalities covered by the urban growth agreement for Nord-Jären, it is enough in the municipality of Sandnes that the resistance is greatest, a municipality governed by the Workers' Party, the Progress Party and the Center Party. Whether to terminate the city growth agreement. As far as I can understand, even if Sandnes went to the step, both the consent of the Storting to collect tolls and the council's toll decision is firm. Then is my question to the Council of State: What will happen to the tolls and toll stations on the North Jury if the municipality of Sandnes now takes a decision to terminate the urban growth agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e363	I believe that we are in renegotiation. This means that questions about different positions are clarified in the specific negotiations. It is such that the Storting has agreed on a toll proposition that is the basis of the North-Jearn collection. There's also a financial commitment, and as I've said before today, one can't jump from them. If a person assumes financial obligations, one must pay for them. At the same time, in the renegotiations there will be many different options that can come on the table. I think it's wise that the renegotiations take place where they are going to happen, especially in the negotiating room, and that any questions that need to be resolved are settled there. So I'm going to brief the Storting if we come up with changes that make the Storting should take new initiatives or take new decisions to follow up the agreements that are then renegotiated.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e368	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e375	The Minister claims that the Workers' Party is not concerned with the realities, but I can already signal that we are. I want to focus this point on increased expenses. The majority of the comments state that the urban packages are portfolio-driven, and this was explained by the case-rapporteur. But we are asking the government to investigate alternative financing arrangements for possible increases in the cost of highways and bicycle routes in the urban packages. It is unreasonable when, in addition, the State, which owns and maintains the road, is often the party that causes cost increases. To show this, I'm referring to a concrete example. The agreement on the Urban Environment Package for the North-Jear includes a unified solution with a medium-term coal-rich E39 between Stavanger and Rofast. The municipality initially wanted a long tunnel because this road passes through a residential area, but the Vegvesen wanted a short coal yard past a school. That's why it became a compromise: a long coal host. When Stortinget then adopts a tunnel regulation that increases costs by well over 400 million. kr, the Vegvesenet will turn the coal-vessel back into a short coal-vessel, which will degrade the living environment of many dwellings located up to this future four-field motorway out of Stavanger to the north. We all want safe tunnels. But that this cost now has to be taken either into the bomb package at the expense of something else, or pushed into the living environment in the form of increased noise and dust, is completely unreasonable. That's why we want others not to experience similar confrontations. Stavanger's rapporteur from the Right said to Stavanger Aftenblad in June that this matter had a long history and that the solution with a long coal host was a compromise several years ago. At that time the options were long tunnel or long coal-colvert. This is inside a city. There are a lot of people living here, and it will affect a free area for the population. This is just one example of overcosts that will be a challenge for the control groups for bomb packs in Norway – therefore our proposal to address another form of response to these challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e388	Five years with the Progress Party in the Ministry of Transport has caused otherwise sensible rogallings to establish that enough is enough. What's This By? I believe that one of the main explanations is that the responsible Council of State, and especially former Minister of Transport Ketil Solvik-Olsen, are running an extensive double communication in the field. One made up for tolls, but one refused to take responsibility for it. The speech is quite clear: Solvik-Olsen put Norwegian record in tolls in 2014, in 2015, in 2016 and in 2017, and he would make it in 2018 if he had not left. This is also a story of the fact that the red-green government made an important move to prevent the tolls from being too high when one said no to build a precious urban path and pointed to the Busway option. So it is also wrong when the Minister of Transport owes so much to local authorities, because it was a decision that central authorities took. Delegations from Randaberg, Sola and Stavanger – and even the Sandnes chairman of the Progress Party – met with the previous government and wanted higher tolls to get the city track. I'm glad the government said no to that. It is also wrong, I think, when the Minister for Transport makes the Central Party's policy irresponsible. This is portfolio management. There is room to cut costs in the project. It's time to build up at the rate at which the money goes. But I think it's important that you get a project going, so that people in the North-Jearth see something happening. And so it is also clear to me that the rush time charge has to be reduced somewhat, because it is also important to be aware that the toll package, and the devices on it, which one has now received, are far more fair than the one before. Siv Jensen said that if the Progress Party came into government, it would say "free" on all the signs. Today's Minister of Transport has solved this in a proper way in the North of Europe, simply by deciding that it should not be divorced. I thought it was special that the car stops, which could run through three toll stations, pay 44 kroner for each one if you don't have a chip, and are not known, should do so without getting information about how much it costs to pass the toll stations. It has to be in place. I hope you can get a renegotiation, and that you can reduce the running time charge. This will increase support for the package.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e401	This harvest includes, among other things: have been characterised by high toll resistance, not least on the North Juice. I believe that all of us who are politicians and who are involved in adopting toll packages – and there are actually most in this room – must take on board that the total level of tolls in this country will soon be on the roof. We're getting a lot of money, we're not going to stick it under the chair. It is being expanded to a greater extent than, for example: only through state funding. The need for new and better roads is precisely what makes local and county policies involved in projects requiring toll financing – because they know that their roads are not being built for a long, long time if they do not agree. The Labour Party has been, and is, included in this type of funding, which is soon all ways funded, namely tolls. Nevertheless, we have to assume that it is starting to get enough, and that most people who have to pay to run through the bombs, believe that the limit has been reached. That recognition is the reason why the Workers' Party has delivered this proposal, to which Kirsti Leirtrø so well explained. Furthermore, the Workers' Party has taken the initiative to assess road pricing in order to obtain, if possible, a different and more equitable distribution of the drivers to be paid. The North-Jear had been excellent for such a test of a new and better system. In addition, we have seen a double communication of another world from the previous Minister of Transport, where he pointed out that this was a wish from the municipalities and county municipalities. Toll proposals are provided by the government, and the Ministry of Transport and the Minister of Transport at all times can never waive responsibility. The Minister of Transport cannot pretend that state and government are only a forwarder of local desires completely disconnected from overall and state governance. The Labour Party takes responsibility for what we are involved in, but we also listen, and we record that there is a limit.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e412	When I hear this debate, I get a déjà vu feeling, because this is something I have lost before. I have been the county rapporteur at Akershus for six years, and I have been negotiating with the Secretary of State of the Central Party on how we would not have new government expenditure into a toll package. We had exceedances on a project at Ulven–Sinsen in over 2 billion. kr, and we spent a few months negotiating with the then Minister of Transport, Liv Signe Navarsete, that this would not be on the toll cap. It was on the toll cap. When we negotiated Oslopackak 3, the local authorities had over a few months negotiated a local package with which we would have done something, because we realized that they did not receive government money. At the end, the state came with all its road projects in Oslo and Akershus and put it into the same package – E6, E18, E16 and Rv. 22 became part of the package. Of course, it got much bigger than it was supposed to be. So this was the Working Party and the Center Party. The second is land policy. The only thing that came out of the regional reform in 2010 was that Oslo and Akershus had legal cooperation where we were to go through the land policy in Oslo and Akershus, all municipalities and counties would cooperate to find some kind of distribution of the settlement in Oslo and Akershus. It was a legal requirement, and we did. It was useful, so we've been able to live up to it afterwards, but it was a state order to make a spatial plan. We didn't want a rush-time charge. For seven years, we did not receive a reward scheme from the Labour Party administration because we did not want a running-time charge. We didn't want a rush-time charge. We did not get a reward order. Despite the fact that we had a huge growth in public transport and were good candidates for the reward scheme, we did not get it from the Centre Party and the Workers' Party because we did not have a running-time charge. The active substance was more important than the result. Today we are talking about road pricing. Yes, I think it makes a lot of sense with road pricing, but the point is that the money is going in. It's not going to be less expensive on North Jären with road pricing. It's going to be another way to get your income. Is it the justice that now others have to pay the price of the measures on the North-Jear, or is it such that road pricing is just another way, instead of tolling, so that more people who live there are going to be involved in paying? It might be a solution, but basically it's not a solution. I think it is sad when the Workers' Party today actually troubles something they have been a backbone in, namely the urban growth agreements. The right and the Working Party have been local back-grades which have allowed this to be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e427	After hearing the representative I used to be interested in posts, I could actually refuse to take the floor, because he explained a lot of what I was going to report. However, I would like to say a little about the fact that there are several representatives here talking about double communication. I think the post to the representative Igstad shows very well that many people are doing double communications in this kind of case. At the bottom of the Urban Environment Package for Nord-Jären is the local decision, for the first time from 2014, which formed the basis for a unanimous decision on the size of the city in March 2017. In addition, the urban environment package has been further affected by an urban change speech signed by the four municipalities, the county council and the state. There is quite a broad consensus that it is important to implement this package in order to expand the urban region on the North-Jear. The instruments used have had a broad political consensus on how to use them. We have here a toll discussion that is really a big exercise in double communication from many sides. Now, in my opinion, we must soon take responsibility for what we adopt in this house, and for the local initiatives and decisions that are taken out there. I think we're about to respect what we ourselves are into, and create predictability about what we're going to do. One's talking about reducing the toll percentage. Well, I also have great sympathy for the fact that, for periods of time, toll packages, which we now have for the North-Jear, but then the initiative must come in the ongoing renegotiation process, from local authorities, from the county, if you want to make adjustments. If someone wants to bring down the toll percentage in this type of package, there are several ways to do it. One is that we have portfolio management here. We can go in and assess the portfolio and see if you can make adjustments in it, see if you can reduce the toll pressure. It is fully possible, but it must come as a local initiative. The other thing is, of course, that we could put even more government money into this – but where are we going to take that money from? I hear nothing about that from those who are now talking about lower toll rates. How does a plan to finance any state contribution involved? Should a take from other road projects? How is this to be implemented? I think one has to be a little concrete if one wants to help bring down the toll percentage. First of all, there is now a renegotiation process. The initiative must come from below. That is really what this matter is all about. At least I don't want to help turn these processes upside down. The initiative for any changes to the package that are both locally anchored has been adopted in the Stortinget and is now being renegotiated locally must come from local teams.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e444	Today, the centre party has received criticism from the Progress Party in this toll case. We have been criticized for being populist, and I want to complain that I am perceived this way in this case. What I'm really trying to do is point to the double communication and the double moral progress in these toll issues. If the Progress Party wants greater silence around the toll collection, representatives of the party must stop being so populistic. Progress party representatives must stop talking against tolls in propositions made by the Council of State. The party of progress in this room acts as if they were in opposition to the government. The party of progress must stop taking credit for all the asphalt laid, without at the same time taking responsibility for the toll collection. This double communication is extremely difficult to deal with, and we have to point it out. I don't want to drag this debate out very much, but a stop to double communication on the part of the Progress Party had in many ways made us have experienced a completely different climate of debate. So this is an insistent call for the Progress Party to take responsibility for everything they do in government, not fine-doing the art of being in government and doing something in layers and then – in the staging room and out among people – saying that no, this does not want the Progress Party, we just had to give ourselves to the Left or something. Had we had a unified government to deal with, and not always see the sunberg parliamentarianism, where people are allowed to be in both position and opposition at the same time, I think this had changed very much.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e453	Actually, it's a shame that we're spending time here in such an important case for attacking and suspecting the intentions. Both the representative Grøvan and the representative Placen say that the 70 pst. as proposed by the Working Party, must be taken from something else. Yes, of course they must, that is what politics is all about. We also promoted that proposal in the NTP, and as I said, we would spend 10 billion. kr on it. If we're going to achieve climate goals, urban development and rail are some of the areas we're going to bet on. Two years out in the NTP period, today's government – if I don't remember completely wrong – is almost 16 billion. kr according to your own plan. We agree that the projects should be locally anchored, but we believe that collapse and government must end with double communication, and then we must take seriously the frustration that is out there and that our citizens signal. We've taken it seriously. With regard to the tens of billions, in the attitude of the last two years, we have put forward proposals for the 70 pst, i.e. the gap between 50 and 70, and we have taken it from the tax base to the richest. The representative Igstad pointed to the frustration regarding exceedances in the project when the red-greens sat in government. I'm always using to be right, in that way, but he points to something that's important, and it's that Akershus and Oslo, after all, came into a position where there were negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e466	Listening to this debate is quite strange. When the Workers' Party later comes to me as if they are against tolls – this is how it might work – I would remind you that it was the Workers' Party that introduced that system itself. When the Workers' Party and the Centre were in government, they granted from 0 to 20 pst. for these projects. When this government grants 50 pst. of the costs, the Workers' Party comes and promises to grant up to 70 pst. But in December last year at least the fractional leader of the Workers' Party, Sverre Myrli, stood and almost promised from this pulpit that the 70 pst. would not reduce the toll burden. It was promised, emphatically. When the Central Party accuses the Advance Party of engaging in double communication, I would like to remind the Siv Mossleth of one thing: On the North-Jearth, the Progress Party has voted against locally in all the municipalities. So it's been an important principle for most people to have a local democracy and listen to it, and the same parties that have introduced this and fought to get it in, now come to the Storting, because it's demonstrations. It wasn't a surprise that there would be demonstrations, it's nothing new. It's just that the Workers' Party is seeing its own policy, and it's getting uncomfortable. It's no use blaming the Progress Party. The progress party does not engage in double communication. In every toll debate in this big deal, we in the Progress Party have said that we have not won the fight against tolls, but we influence in the right direction, and together with the Right, Left and Christian People's Party, we have agreed that we should cover up to 50 pst. in these urban growth agreements. The Progress Party has also agreed with the other three parties that we should reduce toll tariffs with a subsidy scheme of half a billion dollars outside the urban areas. It's not double communication. And yes, it's a high toll level, total, as Siv Mossleth says, it's on about 10.5 billion. kr – about the same level as when the Siv Mossleth party was in government. But all the increase in traffic is on the state budget. It's something new. This is because the Party of Advancement, together with the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left, have been committed to a journey, for it is important. So it's very special that the Workers' Party is now later like they're against tolls. They're not. And then you get to run a pilot project, because it's uncomfortable. It is time for the Workers' Party to be honest – they have introduced this, they have said it is good, and they also say it here in Oslo. Raymond Johansen – we have to believe that he is still a member of the Workers' Party – says at least that this is good, and that it will cost to run through it. The Progress Party believes the opposite, that it is too expensive, but at least we are doing something about it in practical policy – giving more money to reduce toll tariffs.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e477	Now I ask the representative Stordalen to listen to what I say. We've never said we're against tolls. We've said that we don't like tolls, but we see that we have to have it. Can Morten Stordalen now take note of it, so does he not repeat it every time we talk about tolls? But one thing he has right in. We've previously said that with our 70 pst. should be the interval between 50 pst. and 70 pst. go for other purposes in the municipality. In the meantime, the world has changed – along the way – and we have changed our position that now the municipalities themselves or the project groups themselves decide what they should use it to do, namely because the toll rates have become as high as they have become. It's not populist, it's looking at the realities, which the minister claims we don't. We want to discuss road pricing. We haven't said that we're going to introduce road pricing next week or next year – we want to investigate it to see if there's a way we can use GPS-based road pricing that gives a fairer distribution of the costs. So to these 70 pst. Both in the NTP and in the 2017 proposal, we proposed 70 p.m., but were voted down. It's true, as Leirtrø says, that we've initially wanted to finance this by reversing the tax cuts to those who have the greatest income in this country. But anyway, despite the fact that they haven't been reversed, we've cleared up space for that in our alternative budgets over the last few years to be able to do something with these urban packages.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e489	It has called for us, as representatives of the government parties, to take responsibility for the policy we are pursuing. So let's do that -- we're doing it improperly. We are voting today on proposals to take care of it, so we take responsibility. We take the responsibility we have. We're the ones who have put forward a proposition for the Storting. It's the Stortinge who voted for him. Our party has also done so, on the basis that it has our local political initiative. That's the premise of the minority in the Storting today trying to change, and that would turn upside down on the whole toll discussion. We take responsibility for maintaining the system that is, for it ensures local anchoring. So to the attempt at overwhelm policy, if it had been a threat. But what's the problem with the opposition is that we take them seriously. We'll see what they're proposing. The working party says that they will finance 70 p.m., but it is only to look at their alternative state budget for 2019. It's missing over 100 million. kr only in 2019 to fund 70 pst. – in their own alternative budget proposals. People don't stick to some kind of money in these debates. People stick to reality. The reality is that to lower toll rates on the North-Jear – and this may be the outcome of the renegotiations – renegotiations are actually required between the municipalities that have taken the local policy initiatives. But I hear the Center Party won't put any more money on the table. They only want to remove the project. Is it the collective project that's going to go away? How, then, is the North-Jear to achieve the zero-growth goal that the Centre Party has been pursuing? The problem with the opposition is that this does not hang together. There is no hope, and therefore their proposals are also put to a vote, because it must be suspended if it is to be feasible. Therefore, in the introduction I gave credit to SV, because they are at least consistent in their arguments. I think there are fundamental errors in some areas, but at least it's consistent. So there must be renegotiations on the North-Jear. It's going on. There is great local freedom to choose other projects, to scale down, to change how the tolls happen. They have gained greater flexibility with this government, which has said that new municipalities that merge with those that are established should not be included in the zero growth target, and that we should look at the location of the bomb section, so that it does not have unfortunate, unintended consequences. All this is to be done, but it is to be done in renegotiations that are locally initiated, because tolls require local support. The option today is that the Storting concludes that the state is given the right of initiative. This will increase the toll burden in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e504	It's probably in the kind of debates we have now, that we have to demand some honesty. I have to say that. From the Council of State it was said that populism comes in many different versions. The Council of State is right in that. We see very often that exactly when it comes to the toll debate. In the last TV series I put in my last life – that was the future of the earth, that was the future of Norway, that was how it was going with the greenhouse gas emissions, that the world has a fever – I remember that several of those I had in the series, said they wanted brave politicians, those who look a little longer, not just for tomorrow, not just for the next election. When the toll debate comes, we'll see again that when it comes to one of the tools that actually works in urban areas, you have a tendency to back out just because there are enough people in the streets. It's looking to see, and I see the trends in my own block. The Center Party and the Workers' Party have some tendencies towards it. Obviously we're vulnerable on the left side, because we don't like injustice, that families of children are hit. That's a good point. SV is very vulnerable to it, but we point out that it is the means that works, and then we take it back to other parts of the policy: on the tax profile of ordinary people with normal incomes, on the support of kindergartens and different devices on the fees. In total, families with children and ordinary income will benefit from our policies. We have to be tough enough to say that the tool works, but we also have to be good at distinguishing between urban tolls, urban growth agreements, and tolls on major motorway projects, which the majority of the hall is behind, all of them – the big parties. They agree on this – the major motorway projects to cross land and beach and link Norway together. These are the numbers of tolls that are summed up and which are also faced with the Progress Party. I don't want that toll, me. I don't want many of those motorways at all, so I'd like to join them in a demonstration against them, but then it's against the motorway projects themselves. I call for the concepts to be cleaned up, sorted a little between highways, motorways and urban environment agreements, or urban growth agreements, where the tolls are absolutely central to achieving the goals we are going to achieve. We have to agree that this is an incredibly important tool. I also notice that the Council of States is now using it implicitly in its argument, and I am very pleased about that. He doesn't say it explicitly, but it's between the lines, and I'm very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e517	There's been a lot of discussion around tolls, and at least I, who haven't been sitting on the Stortinget for so long, are absolutely sure that when someone sits in the driver's seat and has been doing it for five years – and the Progress Party runs a department where they depend on tolls to achieve their own goals, regardless of whether there's a package on the Jären or whether there's an E6 in the Gudbrands Valley – then they probably have, and others, a sense of what the tolls are for. What's a little special about this case is that we might discuss something quite different than that at least the center party is busy here. We believe, of course, that when people want to develop their own society – they want collective services, they want a pleasant center, they want pathways, they want a holistic planning – we have to appreciate it. It's very important. What we have said when we want to renegotiate is that we want a new arrangement on the rush time charge because we want to use less whip and more reward. We want to test out road pricing. I don't know how it'll turn out, and I think there's a lot of others here in the hall who don't know that either. But to test something, we have to try it out. We believe that through a renegotiation we can test out the way to get money, and then you find out if it works. We think that is positive. In developing their own community, it is important that the State, which, after all, is committed by significant funds, 50 pst., can also have an opportunity to initiate a renegotiation. That is what I feel we have added to this matter. So we in the Center Party are not in favour of increased government funding in this project, because we believe it will affect other important projects in the rest of the country. When we think about zero growth, we agree, as the representative from SV has said many times, that there is a very important prerequisite in such a package. I am then in favour of the proposals that the minority have put forward in the matter, with the exception of what goes on in the kroner and ear in the case of 50 pst. and 70 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e528	It was the representative of Stordalen and the Council of State that brought me back to the pulpit. When the Progress Party calls other parties populistic, you have to listen carefully, because they can. They've almost evolved it into an art – an art that, at least I think, is disgusting. The working party later not as we are against tolls. I'll quote a sentence from my previous post: ‘The working party has been, and is, included in this type of financing, which is soon funded by all roads, namely tolls.’ There's no doubt that we're in on it. We don't see the Labour Party policy here, as Morten Stordalen says. We see Storting's policy, a unanimous policy, and our proposals are to improve it because we see that this is actually not good for people. We stick in the roof of areas that go beyond ordinary people, some of which they are so incredibly concerned about — sometimes. Don't pretend the Progress Party is against tolls. Act like what you are – a party in government and responsible for government policy. To the Council of State, I would like to say that the Workers' Party is funding our 70-pst proposals in our alternative budget. coverage. We are a governing party even though we are not in government now. We never suggest anything that we can't implement and that's not funded. And for information, I could say that we took 700 million. SEK in our alternative budget in this field in 2018, and we have set aside 500 million. kr in 2019. So, councillor, speak true from the pulpit. Use the correct numbers if you want to comment on something. That's just how we can trust.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e544	The President will ask the representative to use words other than ‘disgusting’ to characterise the policy or argument of other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e549	It is nothing new that the Progress Party in this Chamber has been a trendset, and that the other parties are coming after, as when I hear that the Workers' Party's Ingelill Olsen is concerned about the high level of tolls. This has been the intention of the Progress Party for many, many years – always – and therefore I am happy, on behalf of the drivers, that there are several parties who see this unfairness. But I'm also very concerned about local democracy, which I also thought the centre party was. If you agree locally to come back and renegotiate the agreement, and if you want to reduce the amount to bring down the toll costs too, yes, then I warmly welcome it – of course. I trust local politicians. Then I might also recommend the Labour Party politicians to, for example. even to vote against locally, if you are opposed, or at least in a subsidiary way, you can have suggestions to reduce the scope. There is no doubt that these urban growth agreements add up to a lot of Rolls Royce projects, which means that costs are increasing sharply for the drivers. So if you can do mitigation measures that can have the same effect, we warmly welcome it. I don't think I've said that someone is a populist, I've just said that it might seem that the Workers' Party is now later that they're opposed to something they're really in favour of. Then I will end by saying, as the Council of State was also concerned: I think SV's Arne Nävra has had an honest and sincere approach to this debate. I can disagree with politics, but I actually think it is honest to stand for what you think – just as the Progress Party is honest that we have not won the fight against tolls, but that we have managed to reduce quite a lot as a result of being in a government where the majority sees the unfairness, and sees the importance of expanding transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e566	I had a profitable hope of getting the last words in the debate, but I couldn't. It is tempting to continue the debate on both populism and double communication and everything that belongs to it, but I think it does not bring us much further forward. I would like to try to get back to what was the starting point of the case, namely a wish and a demand from the Labour Party representatives who promoted the case, to have a renegotiation of the urban environment agreement on the Nord-Jären. Our starting point for this is the decisions that have already been taken: The urban environment agreement at Nord-Jären is anchored in local decisions in the municipalities, in the county municipalities. A unanimous increase adopted the toll proposition promoted on the basis of local decisions. An urban currency has been established after that, which hits this, where there is both a zero growth requirement for passenger car traffic, and at the same time additional government funds with 50 pst. financing of Bussveien. That is what is the starting point for the matter. And the principle that the Workers' Party is trying to promote in this matter is that they want the Storting to oblige the Government to launch a renegotiation of this agreement, a renegotiation that is already in progress, relating to the urban growth agreement, and which also incorporates the financing mechanisms contained in the urban environment agreement adopted here in the Storting. If they agree locally to make changes to the toll scheme, there is every possibility. This has been confirmed by the Council of State, and that is the attitude and will of the Storting. But then one has to agree locally on wanting changes, as the next session of the Council of State may present to the European Parliament for treatment. That's the starting point for the whole thing. So, of course, we've managed to develop this into a whole toll debate, but I think we have to at least get back to what was the starting point. We don't want to change that principle, we don't want to reverse that decision-making process. We want to make changes to these types of toll agreements, which are localised, adopted in Stortinget, so that the initiative must come from the municipalities and county councils, which are responsible locally, and which are also the best ones to make the local assessments of what is best for their inhabitants. I believe, at least for my part, that what this matter is about is the principle that this type of renegotiation must come from the municipalities and county councils, from local authorities. That is why we are voting against a renegotiation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e589	If the representative Helge Place did not get the last word, I can at least say that I agree very much with him in what he said in this post now, so I will not repeat it. But it's a little encouraging to hear how you're in this room -- if there's words that are allowed to use, and I think so -- considering that you actually agree a lot more locally. I have had the great pleasure of being involved in local politics to work with these environmental packages and now, not least, with urban growth agreements. In Trondheim, the starting point was that NTP was not at all present; a local initiative was needed to solve the problem of queues and the challenges that were there. So it sounds a little bit like this on the North-Jären now, that this with cow pricing, the hours of the day where you double the price, has not been tried before. It has been in Trondheim for nine years – for nine years – because we had to do it this way to have it as traffic regulation measures. It was absolutely necessary for Trondheim to do it that way, with double price at some times, so that someone got a different traffic pattern, and it has helped. Now the big project – E6 south of Trondheim and in towards Melhus – is over in two months, and I think the drivers are actually happy for every penny they have paid when that road is revealed, and they see how nice it is to get the new solution, not least for the goods transport and the big commercial vehicles that are going to use it. The left is very concerned about the local initiative, that's what's going to trump here. They're the ones who actually have to decide. And I hope that these four big cities that use these urban growth agreements, now get even closer cooperation than they might have had in recent years, so that they can draw the good things out of each project. Because, of course, I see the social aspect in terms of too high a load for some groups, which is absolutely necessary to run at those times. It's also going to be possible to do something about it. The drama, for example, has put a ceiling on the crown payment, and not the number of passages. It's a good idea to think about new things there, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e600	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Add User-ID Succeeded
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e616	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e625	I would like to thank the Committee on Good Cooperation. In the proposal, promoted by representatives Arne Nävra, Karin Andersen and Lars Haltbrecken, the proposers point to emission-free hydrogen as an important part of the transition to zero-emission technologies in the transport sector in Norway. The proposers therefore propose a pilot project for hydrogen driven trains on one of the country’s non-electricated routes. The case has been updated by putting two hydrogen trains into normal operation on 17 September 2018 in Lower Saxony, Germany. The Transport and Communications Committee received good information about the project from the manufacturer Alstom and German politicians when the Committee was travelling in Europe at the end of September 2018. These trains can run the network all day thanks to a total action radius of 1000 km and the factory can inform that this type of train is now ready for series production. The plan of the authorities and the train company EVB is to phase in an additional 14 hydrogen trains from the end of 2021. Like the proposers, the Committee welcomes the use of hydrogen as an energy source in the transport sector. Much indicates that hydrogen can be a good alternative in heavy transport. At the Transport and Logistics Conference a few years ago, ASKO summed up its visions for future transport by saying that electric battery operation was natural in the urban areas for shorter transport. But in longer distances, hydrogen will be a good alternative to diesel. The reason was that it would take too long to upload the cars. The hydrogen can be filled in much shorter time, and it does not have as much weight as a battery pack wants. The company underlined that the production of solar fuel from its own roof surfaces was also possible. This also gives rise to a gain by the fact that it will not be necessary to transport fuel to the large storage facilities. The second was that the range of hydrogen is several times longer. Another option, which also applies to both charging stations and hydrogen filling stations, is to operate both cars and boats on ferries and/or cars and trains at common traffic nodes. It is clear that hydrogen has not had the same development as electricity in Norway. Hydrogen cars have cost too much in purchasing, and the infrastructure is also not sufficiently developed. One comes from the other. The dream of the Oslo–Stavanger hydrogen route disappeared when Statoil dropped the bet for approx. 10 years ago. Oslo Municipality and Akershu County Municipality had to take over and have managed to keep it going. Today, five hydrogen buses are on route in Oslo and Akershus with a hydrogen station on Rosenholm. There are also some hydrogen filling stations for private use in other parts of Akershus and also in other parts of the country. In this setting, reference is made to the letter of the department of 17 October. It points to both safety and economic challenges. Hydrogen is one of several technologies involved, together with biodiesel and biogas and battery power. Like biogas, hydrogen has some safety challenges specifically related to the tunnels in the event of an accident and major gas emissions. Hydrogen requires both the purchase of rolling stock and the construction of other necessary infrastructure. Finally, hydrogen investment needs must be balanced against costs and environmental benefits of electrification. Not least the latter is specific to Norway. We produce a lot of clean energy. The question is whether hydrogen can be a cost-effective alternative to electrifying sections that are currently not electrified. The majority will refer to the solution proposed by the Central Party, and will signal that we will support this. The SV proposal is too large and, in our opinion, the time factor is unrealistic.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e648	First of all, I would like to thank the proposers for including, through this proposal, a very important topic such as hydrogen-powered trains. Both the Nordlandsbanen, Meråkerbanen, Rørosbanen, Solørbanen, Raumabanen and Bratsbergbanen are all non-electricated tracks. Our diesel railways represent one third of the Norwegian network and one fifth of the total train traffic in Norway. According to the Environment Directorate, the rail represents greenhouse gas emissions of 100 000 tonnes of CO2 equivalent annually in Norway. Even if 80 pst. by rail electrified, the railway sector remains a not insignificant source of greenhouse gas emissions in Norway. Trains acquired in 2020 will have a life expectancy up to 2050. This means that acquiring diesel trains will therefore continue to result in long and long-term rail emissions. After all, we have been told several times by the government that two bimodal train sets have been ordered to replace two of the 40-year-old train sets that go there. They can go on diesel until the promised electrification is in place. But these two trains do not arrive until 2022, we have been informed now. Now the Trønderbanen and the Meråkerbanen have been electrified in the current NTP, and both Sweden, Tøndelag and the Railway Directorate have spent a lot of resources on investigation. The plan is clear – there is only a lack of financial resources and a start-up order from the government. But instead we're going to spend another 10 million next year. kr on a new investigation, where one of three alternatives is non-electrication. In the SINTEF analysis of alternative modes of operation for non-electrical railways in 2015, it was established that zero emissions will be cheaper on both hydrogen and battery-powered trains than on normal electrification or biodiesel on long distances. Therefore, Sintef concluded that, on some of the remaining sections of the track, alternatives such as hydrogen and battery powered trains should be considered. Now the whole committee shows that the Storting has decided that the government should develop an overall hydrogen strategy. That's good. The minority, consisting of SV, the Centre Party and the Working Party, believes that this strategy should include a pilot project for the use of trains with fuel cells with zero-emission hydrogen on at least one of the non-electricated routes in Norway, for the purpose of operating on one of the lines by 1 January 2020. The time has now come for this, and this is why the proposal of the minority has been promoted. The Labour Party subsidizes the solution proposed by the Central Party in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e663	The representative Kirsti Leirtrø has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e668	Even if 80 pst. by rail electrified in Norway, it is still a source of greenhouse gas emissions some places. Hydrogen-electric trains will be a good alternative for replacing diesel trains on the Northern Railway, Raumabanen, Rørosbanen and the other sections requiring an emission-free directive. From a pollution point of view, I just have to mention that the Nordlandsbane is responsible for emissions of 37,800 tonnes of CO 2 equivalent, and that is a very large proportion of the 50,000 tonnes mentioned in the letters of the Dale Council. I'm recording that someone uses the number 100,000 tons, and the letter says 50,000 tons, but in any case there's a potential for reduction. Conventional electrification will be expensive. SINTEF has calculated that the total cost of hydrogen trains is half of the cost of diesel trains and one third of the cost of electricity trains with electricity lines, so hydrogen is so absolute the most profitable transport for the remaining distances. If we can help get both zero emissions and cheaper operating costs, it is absolutely amazing. Knowledge of hydrogen production is available in Norway, among others. in Glomfjord. There, the industrial environment has been up in a day-to-day production of 65 tons of hydrogen, so it's pretty serious. Hydrogen is not explosive, but combustible matter, such as petrol and diesel. German hydrogen trains are already approved for traffic and tunnels up to 5 km in length with regard to the international railway standard. The longest tunnel on the Steinkjer/Bodø railway is less than 3 km. I guess there's only two tunnels over 2 km, and the longest one is 3 km, so that tunnel argument seems somewhat upbuilt. For it is not possible that only the Norwegian tunnels are designed in such a way that they are not flooded by water. But the Central Party stands wholeheartedly in proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox We want to include a pilot project for the use of hydrogen trains on at least one of the non-electric routes in Norway – for operation by January 2020. But I see that we're maybe a little too eager and going too fast. I was pleased to hear the representative Igstad's signal that they wanted to support our proposal No. 2, for the feeling I've had for a long time, is that the whole committee is positive for the use of hydrogen to get emission-free trains on the remaining distances. That is why I have promoted the proposal, which reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for an assessment of the start-up of a small scale hydrogen train test to test whether the technology can be scaled up to and applied to the long distances currently using diesel propulsion.’ I'm addressing this proposal. The second proposal that we are in is already mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e691	The representative Siv Mossleth has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e696	Politics is weird stuff. These include: stories about attitudes that are changed slightly according to circumstances, an attitude that is free and frank whether you are alone or with friends, or without political ties or agreements. This thing is a story like that. The case rapporteur, Mr. Jagstad, explained in a great way the reason why hydrogen trains had been good. He also had a nice story about the committee's trip to Germany, where we got a good writing from Alstom, the manufacturer of trains. I got the impression that we were all standing there with stars in my eyes. We saw hydrogen taking both here and there in Norway. It has been mentioned here several times: 80 pst. is electrified, but we have some big – excuse the expression – diesel sows that go up in our valleys, and there should be hydrogen. So you could say, why not electricity? Those who have been a little bit inside it know that electrification is incredibly expensive, especially where there are tunnels. They have to be opened up, they have to be larger, they have to be further, they have to be higher, they have to be larger, they have to be higher, they have to be larger, they have to be larger, they have to be higher, they have to be larger, they have to be larger. Combination solutions or pure hydrogen trains are very interesting. I also underline what the representative Mossleth said, I also have the same impression – I believe the committee as a whole, and it is important that the Council of State takes over, wants a commitment to find out about the possibilities of the hydrogen train in Norway. Then to the proposal. This is a concrete proposal, which was put forward in a way as soon as we came home from Germany. We checked out a lot ourselves and checked where this could be in Norway as a pilot project. It's pointed at several distances. I have not fallen in love with anyone – several of them are absolutely possible. We write that the Nordlandsban is very topical because of, among other things, the supply of hydrogen through Glomfjord. We also mention the Raumaban and others. So the question is what happens when we get home. What happens is that you have some political bonds, as we know of course. These are the mechanisms of Norwegian policy and, perhaps, of all possible policies everywhere. It is not that simple anymore after you come home and see it gray everyday. It's a little colder, too. We were quite clear in our proposal. We wrote that it was going to be part of the government's overall hydrogen strategy, because we figured it was working on a hydrogen strategy. Now I'm a little uncertain about that too, but we'll get a clear explanation from the government council afterwards. So it was an invitation for the entire committee to give a small lead to the government council, to the ministry, that we wanted it to go in the direction of a pilot project on hydrogen trains, and that this could be incorporated into the government's work further. It is also very ideal to imagine that hydrogen filling stations can be combined with filling stations for example. heavy duty vehicles — few fillers, nearest. We can imagine Dombås if it was the Raumaban, we can imagine Trondheim if it's northward, etc. Then there's another point that's very important to me, and that's that if we're going to put something in the so-called green shift, what we really mean by that -- and I've mentioned this many times -- we need to get some knives that are concrete, which points forward, which Norwegian industry can take on. We have a proud tradition of hydrogen production in Norway. In the case of electrolysis, we can go all the way back to the arc of light, to Sam Eyde, to Rjukan via Notodden. We have the whole production line in Norway. We make the equipment that produces hydrogen, on the Notodden. It's being sold all over the world. It can be scaled to whatever size we want. And then we have clusters and old industrial sites like in Glomfjord, which have enough power and can make the hydrogen itself. We have the whole sequence and the whole production chain. I think it's very sad, everybody understands that we don't get any more support than what we do, including from the government parties. We had hoped in the longest time that the Christian People's Party too would join in on a variant of a proposal that was more obliging than it exists, for the proposal of the Center Party is very thin, it is very weak. I'm a little uncertain about how we stand – I'm going to get back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e715	I must first thank Mr SV for the initiative for this debate. It is important that we have an open debate on hydrogen bet in Norway. This may not only apply to trains, but it has been seen that hydrogen as a product can be used on a larger scale than today, because the transport committee was on this trip to Germany and was told that the first two trains were now delivered, it is in order, and it is going very well, after a long test run. For the Left, which is technology optimists, this is a very good step. Rail in Norway has been electrified mainly by a pantograph, i.e. by picking up the current in the air, to say it like this – there are some wires hanging there. Just that arrangement, this old-fashioned electrification system, becomes too expensive for the remaining sections of the track. We're talking about electrification even when it's using hydrogen. Also, if we had had battery power on the trains, that's exactly what we're talking about. It is mainly the hydropower in Norway to be used to produce this energy, and it is the same engines in the locomotives to be used, i.e. electric motors. For the signals given by the government, e.g. on the Trønderbanen and other sections in Norway: In the revised budget a few months ago, there was an option on the booking of bimodal trains, or hybrid trains – people understand better – where to use both electricity by bringing down the current with a pantograph and possibly diesel where it is not built out. On the Flirt trains, where you have seen this, you have a technical solution with a separate set of vehicles where you initially store the diesel, but where you might switch to producing electricity using hydrogen instead, or you could install a battery package. I think it is a very good signal, and it is clear that we need to cooperate with the manufacturer of these trains for further development, so that we prevent the use of diesel at all. The Left is sceptical about the SV's proposal, is clearly the time perspective. I think it is simply unrealistic to think about it on 1 January 2020, and to carry out a test project already before that. I think we're going to be much more honest and say that we need time. Then we get good solutions that can actually be implemented in a smooth and nice way. We get with us those who are going to own the trains, and those who are going to run them, when we have a good dialogue in advance. 2020 isn't far away, to say it like this. I have more faith in the government's hydrogen wagering, and that we're thinking about technical solutions to bring down the greenhouse gas emissions. The majority and the government have said that all public transport should be done with zero emissions by 2025. That's what I and left have a good hope of being able to achieve if you do the right actions. I must say, when the Ministry of Climate and Environment now provides support for two filling stations in Trøndelag for hydrogen on passenger cars or large trucks, in Stjørdal and Trondheim, you are on your way to see if hydrogen can also be useful for passenger car traffic and heavy-duty vehicles.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e730	The railway must be a competitive transport alternative. The train shall play an important role in the future, in particular for commuter traffic around the major cities and freight transport between parts of the country. This is the broad cross-political agreement. The appropriations allocated to the sector have increased sharply. In recent years, a lot of money has been invested in the sector. It is deliberately due to the priorities of the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Advance Party and the Right. This is a proper priority. The railway sector must be given priority in order to meet the transport needs of the future. That is why we are also in the process of implementing a rail reform, which can provide more and better train services for the money. We want a renewal of the railway. During the eight years of red-green driving, the maintenance crew increased by approx. 1 billion. kr per year. This came at the top of a system that was already tearing away with old and degraded infrastructure. The accumulated backlog was more than 17.5 billion. kr when the non-socialist majority took over. Now we see that the aftermath is going down. I'm glad it's a cross-political desire to bet on the railway. The train shall be a central part of the future transport system in Norway. The SV proposal is exciting in the sense that there are two key issues, both the challenge of emissions from the transport sector and issues related to green fuel. In the national transport plan, we have a clear ambition to implement new zero-emission solutions on the railway. As the Council of State also refers to in its letter to the Committee, hydrogen may be one of several relevant technologies that can contribute in the long term to making trains on non-electrified sections of the railway without emissions. Other relevant technologies that can reduce emissions are biodiesel, biogas and battery operation, which have also been the subject of several others, as well as conventional electrification, of course. Then I see that the Council of State considers it so that the time is not now for hydrogen trains in Norway. I agree with him on this point, but at the same time I believe that we must be offensive in using different measures and instruments to promote new technologies. I see that the Council of State is also on that track, to say it that way. It is apparent from the timing that the government batches assume that hydrogen fuelled trains are considered as an alternative to electrification of non-electricated lines on the railway. It can be joined by the Christian People's Party. Government parties indicate that the government is now preparing a plan for fossil-free public transport and that hydrogen will be a natural part of this plan. That's good, too. But I think we can draw it a little bit further. I understand that the timetable laid down in the proposal by the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV is unrealistic. We must be ambitious, but not unrealistic. Operation on one of the lines by 1 January 2020 is not possible, if one will never do so. On the other hand, I see that a proposal has been made in the case where a request is now being considered by the government to start trials on hydrogen trains on a smaller scale, without one locking itself to an unrealistic timeframe. This is a proposal we support. We therefore vote in favour of proposal No. 2, which is promoted by the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e747	It was about to become a collision with the Christian People's Party down on the floor here, and we want to avoid that for a while! By default, there is no need to make conflicts bigger than they are. I'm a basic technology optimist. I believe that there are modern, new solutions that are not yet tested on a very large scale and that are not used, but that can solve many of the basic challenges we face in the future. Therefore, I think it is wise that the Committee joins in the loose proposal that the Centre Party has put forward today, and we will of course, on the basis of it, assess how one can also use hydrogen trains in the future, on the basis that it can be a cost-effective solution as well as other solutions. We are in a new era for the Norwegian railway. We build more, we build faster, and we keep doing just as much better than we did in very, very many years. We are in the most hectic and ambitious construction period since the Nordlandsbanen was completed in 1962. In many ways, we are in a new age. But the railways are already, to a large extent, already characterized by very low emissions. 80 pst. railway is already electrified and Norwegian rail emissions are low. In my letter to Stortinget I have pointed out that they are about 5000 tonnes of CO 2 equivalent, or about 0.1 pst. of the collected emissions in Norway. For example, road traffic has an emission of 8.8 million tonnes. What's important in this argument is that if one wants hydrogen as an alternative to electrification because one generally wants a conversion to the kind of technology or technology development, it's one type of argument. But if you want very climate-efficient measures in the transport sector, this is not the best proposal. And I need to be honest with the Storting, as I was in a letter, and as I am now, because there are other ways to spend the same money on and achieve greater greenhouse gas reductions than using them here. However, it may be right to do so on the basis that one would also like to pick up the margins of such projects. We're going to do this distribution work, based on what the Storting now seems to conclude with today. Then we will also have to rely on the experience that is now gained in Germany, from which we find that the Committee has taken inspiration. The first commercial train was put into service in September this year, and 50 new trainsets have been ordered in Germany. This means that the original proposal to put it into operation on 1 January 2020, even if the Storting had agreed, would have been outside the actual range, because if one is to do so, a trainset must be purchased, and one must be in line until they have completed the pre-ordered ones before getting hold of it. So it'll take longer than what SV's proposal initially suggests. But we're going to do this distribution work seriously, so that for the future we have a basis for assessing whether hydrogen trains in Norway are a good alternative to electrification of those paths that are currently not electrified. That is how I feel that the mission that Stortinget is giving today is meant to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e766	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e771	There was a far more unanimous committee and a calmer tone in this matter, and things are quite clear. However, I have a question, because the Minister for Transport said in his reply to the Committee that in the competition basis of the Traffic Package 2 Nord there was an economic bonus for testing zero-emission technology, but that the choice of technology and time of operation had to be left to the train operator for legal reasons. So that means that it's the train operator who decides what kind of technology we get on the Norwegian railway in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e776	This means that when the Traffic Package 2 Nord is evaluated, there will be assessments in the package north that will be a bonus if one adopts new, better technology. We're going to have more competition packages after that. It is also possible for us, at a later stage if you wish, to engage in dialogue with those who have offered them at any time on the Norwegian railway, if they want to choose other solutions, or if they want to pay for them. There are still large areas of action following the current supply processes, but it is true that the situation today is that the hydrogen infrastructure is not built out, we do not have the train sets, and new actors, if any existing actors, will continue to operate on the routes in the North Package. It makes it too early to clarify in detail how to handle it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e783	I think I've written a little bit here, so now it's asking if I can keep track of it during the line change. As I see it, this German train authorised for traffic in tunnels or tunnels up to 5 km in length must be quite well equipped to be able, for example, to run on the Salt pendulum, which runs between Bodø, Fauske and Rognan, where the tunnel lengths are from 36 metres to the longest of 2078 metres. I want to ask you a little bit about progress. If the Council of State is to estimate a timetable for when we could get a hydrogen train in operation, what would he think?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e790	When I'm in the Storting, I don't believe. I have other arenas. That means I'll sort out the possibilities, and I'll come back to Storting when I have an answer that the Storing can stick to. However, the important thing to remember is that some of the risk assessments on hydrogen trains are also about how the tunnels are built, making hydrogen, which is lighter than air, collects on the roof. Some of the tunnels don't have a mechanical fan that's going to pull it out. It's a challenge and makes it not only a technological issue – whether we have trains and materials available and able to do so, but also whether we can operate safely on the roads. I assume that the Storting also believes that we should not take undue safety risks when testing new technology. This means that we have to sort out the measures and make a more thorough assessment than we have done so far, in the light of the proposal of the Central Party, it seems to bring the whole Biggest thing with us today. I will of course do that before I get back to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e797	I see it as both the Raumaban and the Salt pendulum are very current sections – which are not very long and can get an early start. I know that you can drive the Salt pendulum five times a trip-return per day on one tank filling. Between Mo and Bodø one can drive twice per tank filling. I know that Bodø Municipality and Meløy Municipality work together for a filling station in Bodø that can fill both trains, boat and bus – what it should be. I think it would be very natural in such an investigation work that contact is made with the relevant environments. But is there any way in which the government can help to get more filling stations in place? It was also mentioned by other representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e802	When the Storting is going to ask me to sort this out today, I ask for respect for the fact that it has not been completed. This means that we have to look at all the security aspects of it, what is going on in infrastructure around it, and what upgrades of the network may need to be put in place. First of all, we need to look at which sections are best suited to test it – and, secondly, to expand it. There is a job we have to do, and that means that I am not going to process any answer to it now in addition to the fact that the risk dimension that lies in part of the tunnels – which was the background to my reply to the Stortinget when I first got the question about the representative proposal – is still the reason. That's what we know now. And then, when we've done further distributions, we get to come back with the assessments that follow from it, in line with what seems to be the decision of the Greatness today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e807	I notice that the Council of State now refers to the solving of the proposal of the Central Party, which seems to have a majority here, and that he will then start an investigation. Then my question is: I understand that the government has for the longest time initiated such an investigation, that they are in the process of an overall hydrogen strategy. Then I have to get an explanation from the Council of State: Is the department not doing such an investigation, so that the Council of State does not start from scratch, but actually has a basis to answer some questions around, for example. The time horizon? It would have been very interesting to get answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e812	The answer is that parts of this we have knowledge of. But I feel that what Stortinget is now asking for is a greater assessment than what we currently have, for example. link to the infrastructure, if we are to make good judgements. Now the assessment is which actual upgrades of different sections of the track we, for example. concrete steps must be taken to make use of this technology. So in detail, we haven't done this yet, we've done it on a superior level. We're doing a lot, it's working on a hydrogen strategy directed by the Ministry of Climate and Environment. There are many things that happen in this area, and that are under work. But I feel that what we're asked for by a possible plurality of Stortinget today, means that we have to go deeper into this, consider simple sections, not only in terms of what technological solutions we do well, but also in terms of what upgrades it may require in the infrastructure around.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e819	Thanks for the answer. I wonder a little bit about the Council's assessment of business opportunities, with the tradition – as I mentioned in my main post – of producing hydrogen in Norway in a clean way, that is. electrolysis. That's what it's all about here, we're never talking about the use of fossil sources in the production of hydrogen, if we're going to talk about a green shift and zero emission solutions. How much emphasis will the Council of State place on the possibilities for the environments we have in Norway, for business, which are far-reaching in the production of both equipment and – in addition – hydrogen, i.e. the raw material itself? How much emphasis will he put on it in his assessment in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e826	In Norway, we are blessed with a fantastic business life, that invests, that innovates, and that develops new technology. It's important to Norway. That is why we will also pursue an industrial policy that will enable these kinds of activities to grow, grow and strengthen their competitiveness, whether it be in fiscal policy or through the instrument we are making it – at least in fiscal policy, in stark contrast to the Socialist Left. I think this is also a business area for Norwegian companies, of course. What technical assessments of the railway infrastructure we have to do, what it needs to do to use hydrogen trains, and what ringing effects it might have, are too early to conclude now. We're going to make that assessment. At the end of the day – and I know that the Storting seems to be a very demanding thing – all of this is about how we can spend the money most effectively. We also need to give priority to other important things when it comes to the railways. We get to come back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e836	I thank you for your answer. It sounds like an initially positive attitude — including from the government side — to assess hydrogen even more strongly as part of zero-emission solutions. My question is more of a concern: I think it is rather strange that the government has not come any further in this assessment, that there must be a loose proposal on a matter like this – that the Council of State cannot disclose that there are investigations already, or that they are well on the way that hydrogen should be one of our important carriers. It's surprising. I know several request decisions from Stortinget where hydrogen is placed in the center. In the last period, one could refer to more. A request decision – quite unanimously from the Energy and Environment Committee, I believe – also came in 2016/2017, where hydrogen should be an important element to investigate. Can the Councils comment on that?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e843	Yes, I can. I said we're doing a lot of work in this area. A hydrogen strategy is being developed by the Ministry of Climate and Environment. It has our judgements with us. We have followed developments and the tests that have been done in Germany. We're still following the project, we're going to continue to do it. We have looked at challenges in the Norwegian infrastructure, on the basis that it will require many investments. It will be technologically challenging – especially in the old tunnels – if one receives hydrogen at the top of the tunnel. There's a lot of challenges there. We've done a lot of work in this area. But I feel that what we're being asked for now, goes one step further. I had believed that SV also felt that it was constructive when we said that it meant that we had to look at the specific distances, what it takes to get it done. It's another step in what I feel is the SV mean is the right direction. Then it must be allowed to never forget so little.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e850	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e857	First, thank you to Igstad for a fine review of the case. Politics is wild. Politics is to seize the opportunities ahead of us. Norway has all the possibilities to develop and exploit hydrogen as a source of energy in a sustainable way, not least because we have so large wind resources that can be used to develop zero-emission hydrogen. We all have a common vision of reducing emissions in large monn. We see that in shipping there is a lot of technology development related to electricity and low-carbon vessels, largely driven by the maritime industry itself. Another option is the development of hydrogen as a source of energy for transport — all types of transport. SV's proposals will be included and start a similar hydrogen development. By taking action that affects the actors, a few can bring about a valuable development in the area. It has been mentioned that hydrogen trains are in regular operation in Germany. We can do that in Norway too, but then we need an overall hydrogen strategy. It doesn't come of itself, it needs to be helped. Starting a hydrogen train pilot project on an appropriate route would become a wild policy. In addition, it will provide us with the possibility of a new energy source that is sustainable and emission-free, and it will complement or strengthen the possible overall hydrogen strategy that is or is not. That possibility should not be missed by Transport Norway. The Labour Party, in addition to the proposal in question, will vote in a subsidiary way for the proposal of the Centre Party, and we are pleased that the position supports it. I would like to comment on the Countess' visit to the red-green retreat on the railway. We're all aware that we have a aftermath, we are, but Bane NOR says that in 2018 there is a lack of railway maintenance for 19 billion. kr, it increases by 3.5 billion. kr every year. So these are the numbers of the day. This is completely a responsibility for today's government, and can't be a red-green aftermath in the last five years.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e874	I must, as many others have done from here, start by thanking for the initiative that the Socialist Left Party has taken by promoting this matter. This is an important matter, and when, in addition, we get a good case-rapporteur's statement from the representative, Mr Igstad, as an introduction to the matter, and a good follow-up of the other colleagues in the committee, in addition to the representative, Mr Gruvan, we are able to move a step further. When it is so clearly informed from the Council of State that this is also interesting for the government to find constructive solutions in terms of this with hydrogen-based trains, we have come a good step further. As I also said in the previous case we debated, on the Urban Environment Package for Northern Ireland, I always think it is important to test new solutions if possible. That's really what we're talking about here, I feel like we're now getting some of the distances figured out and getting tested out the solutions that might be part of future solutions. That's what the NTP says, something to electrify, something to be based on hybrid solutions, so hydrogen solutions are other possibilities. I think it is exciting that a country like Norway with so many challenging sections is willing to accept what is good for the future. Although this is not a matter of time, the will is present here to put in place the possibilities that exist. I hope that it can be followed up by the government as soon as possible, when it then looks like a total collapse supports the solution proposal from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e881	I would first like to stress that SV would of course prefer electrification where possible. I think most people who are interested in zero emission agree. There's no game of energy, and where it's convenient, it's absolute preference. We are well on the way in other areas of the transport industry and in the transport sector, so in the case of trains, it is clear that we are talking about the Tronderbahn as the turn to be electrified – there is no doubt about it. But it's the paths where there's obviously a lot of money to earn by thinking hydrogen instead, we're talking about. The government parties, and perhaps Gunnes in particular, said that 2020 is too early. Yes, I can admit that, 2020 is very ambitious. I had a little tête-à-tête with one of those who worked in Alstom when we were there, and it was said that if we wanted the train within a year or so, we should order now – that was said in September. So I see the concern for that. That's why I put out a little bait during the committee reading – it's a dynamic process in a committee – to check the position of 2022, 2023. There was no support to get then either, so it must be a substitute argument that it is too early. All representatives also have the possibility to use exactly the same proposal, but write 2022 or 2023. We would also have supported that – a much better proposal than what is now available as a loose proposal, which is relatively pitiful. But the councils see it as a kind of game changer, or some sort of direction orientation. That's good, and of course I won't announce that we're voting against it now, based on the signals that have come from everyone else's room. It would be pointless, so we will support it subsidiaryly. Remember one thing about this with the year because when we can realize a hydrogen train in Norway: we're not talking about a test route. It's done in Germany. They've done it for us in many ways, the process that's done. Well, there's something colder here, there's a little bit different terrain, but pretty much it's done. It is in regular operation in Germany – remember that. Another point is that many of the diesel engines now stand for replacement. It costs a lot of money to replace diesel trains too, and that's when we have a golden opportunity to think hydrogen instead of diesel. This must be part of the assessment, and I am convinced that then the Council of State must also include it in the assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e892	The President will point out that it will be possible to find other parliamentary expressions than 'wretched' to characterise the proposals of other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e897	The left will also support the loose, good proposal from the Central Party in order to get a little further on this matter. It's a good suggestion, which points out that we can take the challenges even a little bit more into consideration and start defining sections of the track. Every debate about hydrogen teaches me new things. I must commend those who were in the line change today. It was a very good line change: environmental weighting from the providers, safety, infrastructure, innovative solutions – all of this was asked. And that was a good answer from the fact that you didn't have the fasititude on everything, but you wanted to be involved in investigating, and took the signals from Stortinget seriously when SV took an initiative, and we get even a little more speed on this. I think we're going to be positive for these solutions in the future. I understand that the whole Storting is behind and see that hydrogen can be the solution to many of these trajectories. There's one thing in this new hydrogen community that might not be solved, and that's the price itself. So what's the final price going to be? It will be the challenge of the Council of State: the operating costs of using hydrogen. Today the price is for the car, compared to petrol and diesel. It's not sure that it's going to be the price, we're going to hope that it's actually lower, so it's going even more towards using hydrogen on the different modes of transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e912	Hydrogen can be produced cheaper than diesel, it is clearly based on the signals coming from among others. Glomfjord. Now it's also a market aspect of how cheap something is sold. But the reason I took the floor is that the State Council of Dale said in the change of line that it's okay to be happy. And I have to admit, I'm actually happy today. I would like to thank all those who have contributed to the fact that on this matter we have had a very constructive and good debate and a solution that brings us closer to the goal. Although the proposal of the Central Party is called somewhat different, there is a willingness to progress in this Chamber. I now trust that the matter will continue, and that we will progress as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e919	The representative Arna Nävra has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e925	First, I'm sorry that I used an expression I'm not going to use on the proposal of the Center Party. It's maybe a little bit weak, that suggestion. It might have to be, because the right has also got behind it. I just want to say I like the debate, so do I. I think we've got a lot of things out there today. Usually there are people in the government who are going to take some of the state considerations that the representative Jon Gunnes has done. But I totally agree. There are several people who have pointed this out. And we've come a step further. Unless otherwise, we have had a good deal of debate here today that has been very good. In the end, I just want to say one thing that has surprised me, and that is the safety aspect. I think that's almost some kind of substituting argument. So heavy-load trucks are running through many tunnels, and it is not mentioned in great detail.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e934	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e950	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that – within the allocated speaking time – up to six rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e959	In this case, there has been good cooperation in the committee, and I would like to thank you for that. The working party is a technology optimist party, we tend to say that we don't fear new technology, we fear old technology. And this is agreed by the majority in the Chamber, because there is a broad majority in the Committee – without SV, which are otherwise proposers. Autonomous ferries are likely to provide great opportunities in the future, both as carriers and industrially. The majority also agree with that. However, the majority do not agree with the proposers in using investigative capacity at all fjord crossings in the projectfergefree E39. Ferry-free solutions on the route between Stavanger and Trondheim are chosen at some of the fjord crossings because they provide great savings both during travel and in regularity. As an example, I might mention that crossing the Bear Fjord will take three minutes with a ferry-free connection, while today's ferry trip takes about. Forty minutes. It is a strong value creation region that lies along the E39, often called the Gold Coast. It is important that a person derives the effects of ferry-free connections to larger residential and working areas along the way. In practice, the road is open for five minutes before it closes again, to open again in 30 minutes. Is an unfortunate, one will spend a lot of time just waiting for the next opening. The new fjord crossings will also contribute in other areas to strengthening the important competitiveness of key export industries in both a regional, a national and an international perspective. Three fjord crossings are currently under investigation and partly planned. It's Rogfast in a tunnel under Bokenafjorden, it's Hordfast in a bridge over Langenuen and up Bjørnefjorden, and it's Møreaken in a tunnel under Romsdalsfjorden and bridge over Midtsund. These cruises are important to get ferry-free, as there are also major weather challenges to some, especially in the winter months. It is highly likely that more fjord crossings will be made with both emission-free and autonomous ferries in the future, but the technology for autonomy is not ripe for use for a while yet. Within a few years, the main focus of non-emission ferries in Norway is well worked on. Here Norway is leading the way in technology development, which we are likely to do in the case of autonomous ferries. We know that there is research going on on autonomous ferries in Trondheim, and the committee got to see this example of its journey in Trøndelag a short time ago. Yesterday we were able to read on sysla.no about Norled's ferry MS 'Followup' which went autonomously in a two-day schedule with three different calls. But here Norled shows that there is better efficiency, there is better safety and lower fuel consumption that are gains, no faster crossings or regularity. The working party honors those who work on these projects and hopes that we will also be leading this technology when it matures – and that it can take over many of the ferry sections where it is not socio-economic to build bridges or tunnels to replace the ferries. I will stop where I started: the working party does not fear new technology, we fear the old one.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e980	I would like to thank the rapporteur for a good cooperation in dealing with this matter. First of all, I have to tell the representative Nävra that I am in danger of disappointing SV in this matter as well. Ferry-free E39 is an important project for the West and for Norway as a whole. Strong value creation regions become even more competitive by significantly reducing travel time through ferry-free solutions. It means a larger and more attractive housing and labour market, which in turn provides the basis for the value creation of future generations. The project Upgraded and ferry-free E39 was first anchored in NTP 2014-2023. The initiative was continued in the National Transport Plan 2018-2029. Three projects are prioritised, it's Rogfast – already started – Hordfast and Møreaksen. It has been crucial in the priority that these projects make a significant contribution to linking strong value creation regions between Bergen and Stavanger and the North-West through ferry-free solutions. SV suggests that autonomous ferries be included as an independent alternative to bridges and tunnels when ferries-free E39 are to be planned. Autonomous ferries will certainly be part of the future in Norwegian fjords, but they will not be able to contribute to the travel time gain of bridges and tunnels. For many of the projects we find on the E39, it is precisely the benefit of travelling without ferry that helps to create larger and more attractive housing and labour markets. The freedom to travel at your request and the release of waiting time are of great value in the development of attractive regions. When e.g. The journey time between Molde and Ålesund can be reduced from one hour and three quarters to less than one hour, expands the labour market, and we get a more well-functioning region for both value creation and settlement. We will not be able to achieve this advantage by using ferries even if they are autonomous. However, we are positive in trying out autonomous ferries on sections where it is not appropriate to build fixed connections in the form of bridges and tunnels. Autonomous ferries may be cheaper in operation and it will be possible to look at an increase in capacity and the expansion of the offer that one would otherwise not be able to achieve using today’s technology. There may also be an intermediate solution for some ferry sections pending a more permanent solution using a bridge or tunnel. We agree with the proposers that this is an interesting technology that could contribute to a better offer for travellers. However, we will not include this in the Upgraded and Ferry-Free E39 project, nor will we consider whether autonomous ferries can provide an improvement in the offer on sections where the bridge or tunnel is not a realistic alternative. It is important to follow developments closely and to facilitate the testing of this type of technology in Norway. There are already a few test areas where autonomous solutions can be tested. The maritime industry in Norway is the world leader in the construction of advanced vessels. It is obvious that this is a technology that can both provide a better supply to travellers, strengthen maritime safety and, at the same time, help create new and exciting jobs in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e995	I also thank you for the cooperation that has been in the committee. Norway is a long-distance country with a demanding topography. People live around – on islands and deep into the fjords. A forward-looking business and community with different travel time requirements makes it necessary to think differently about transport solutions than was done 20, 30 and 40 years ago. The Upgraded and Free E39 project is about upgrading the infrastructure between ferry routes, but not least about the establishment of ferry-free solutions. This will provide a better offer to the population and the business community. The project will contribute to a significant reduction in travel time, which is important for building up during the Western settlement and business. Autonomous ferries will not contribute so much to reducing travel time and transport costs for business as vacation-free solutions will do. A 30-year professional life in many of the world's oceans, as well as the Norwegian coast, has taught me that nothing is done about it, nor will it be an autonomous ferry. Most often when a ferry does not go, the technical solutions on board have failed or have been simply put a damper on it. The main element of the phase-in of autonomous ships is the removal or reduction of crew costs. Yesterday I was in a meeting where you lifted this very element. Even Yara Birkeland, as you can see, will be operational in a well one-and-a-half year, will have some crew on board because you are in a test phase. But in the case of passenger ships, the crew has a completely different function. You have passengers on board and maybe not just a container. This means that the capacity of the entire crew on board has a function in an emergency. You're not even close to solving this. What happens if a ferry has a fire or a base? Who shall guide those on board to do the right thing in an emergency? These are elements that we haven't gotten on the track with how we're going to solve. The Maritime Directorate has started the job. It must be resolved against the IMO organisation. This will take time. But most importantly, autonomous ferries will not help make the E39 free, and that's what it's all about. We must keep that in focus. The Progress Party is not afraid of new solutions. We believe that at some point it will force itself forward some places. Where it is socio-economically correct to continue to have a ferry, it will probably be possible to use an autonomous ferry at shorter distances. But we're not there today. This project has the main element to get a free E39, and then autonomous ferries are not the solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1008	SV is clear in its proposal that emission-free and autonomous ferries are to be considered as an independent alternative in the same line with tunnels and bridges when the ferry-free E39 is planned. This is justified by price, environmental considerations, capacity, flexibility and societal benefits — good objectives. The centre party is positive in putting new technologies into service where appropriate, and technological developments, together with demands from policy makers, have led to the deployment of nearly 70 low- and zero-emission ferries over the next two to three years. We are a leading country in the phase-in of more environmentally friendly technology in both the ferry and boat sectors, which also has a high transfer value for the maritime sector in general and contributes to new and exciting jobs. High expectations are attached to the development of autonomous solutions for ferries and other shipping. The centre party will support this important work. We believe it is particularly important to note the opportunities for environmental benefits, as well as the development of Norwegian business and Norwegian competence environments. We will follow the development of autonomous solutions, which are at the testing stage, close and include them in future assessments when new ferries are to be released. In addition to the introduction of zero and low-emission technologies in ferry operations, we see an increasing number of connections introducing a system for ferries to cross the fjords and automatically add and remove berths – an exciting future. This can be done in parallel without autonomous ferries being included and placed as a premise in the assessment of this large and important project – and I mean E39. The centre party is dedicated to keeping the progress plan of the project on an upgraded and free E39. First of all, the project is about upgrading the infrastructure between the ferry routes and the establishment of ferries-free solutions, providing better provision for the inhabitants and extended housing and labour market areas. Important fjord crossings are, as mentioned many times, Rogfast, Hordfast and Møreaksen, and also the Sognefjord. The projects included in the National Transport Plan 2018-2029 contribute to a significant reduction in travel time and will strengthen these housing and value-creating regions, as I have said before. This is the deciduous most important effect of a free E39, in both a regional, a national and an international perspective. The centre party is of the opinion that the holiday relief projects on the E139 already prioritised in the national transport plan are good examples of the benefits of ferry-free connections to develop already strong value creation regions throughout the West Coast. Free solutions for E39 are under planning because they provide a significant reduction in travel time. It will not be possible to achieve the same travel gain using ferries. Of course, we are in favour of developing autonomous ferries and their use, but we are opposed to this being introduced as an independent alternative in the further work on E39.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1023	After all, the whole E39-free project sounds both logical and reasonable – think of linking the entire outer West together, with a coastal line without ferries, the hated ferries – right? In order to assess how sensible this project is today, we need to consider several important issues. We have the environmental aspect – it is obviously important. We have the use of public funds – I see the Minister of Finance has entered the Chamber, so it may be important for the Minister of Finance to follow these figures. We have the development of economic activity, for example: the tourist industry towards other industries. Point four: Has the situation changed lately? Yeah, maybe something's happened on the technological front. First of all to the environmental aspect: it is quite obvious that we are talking here about environmental aspects that are frightening. I do not find one environmental organisation supporting this. If anyone in the hall knows about someone, they have to tell me. I guess that's proof enough. We're also talking about costs. We're talking about investments of about 200 billion. kr only for the fjord crossings – 200 brd. Just for the fjord crossings! Hordfast, 39. kr – they're trying to push it down, we're going to see how it works. The mortar axis, at $38. kr – we'll see how it works. Rogfast, 17th. kr – we'll see how it works. The maintenance costs are about 8 million. kr per running kilometre for four-field road. That means that such distances as Rogfast or Møreak will cost – how much is it going to be without a marble frame in front of me? – a few hundred million a year in maintenance expenditure. Think about this! We can almost operate or purchase ferries for some of the sums that go only for maintenance of these tunnels. We're talking about assessments of well-being and safety in these underwater tunnels. Farewell? It's doubtful. Do they see anything under there? It's doubtful. Security? Yeah, that's pretty important. I'm not going to go into that right now, it's pretty obvious. For industry: the truck industry says no. The representatives in the Chamber know that. The cargo car association is opposed to these fjord crossings with tunnels that are determined, where they are on layers with SV. The common labour market is being said, and I also heard it again from the local representative. Eivind Tveter in Møreforskning has argued strongly that Ålesund and Molde are not at all becoming a common housing and labour market. I heard a talk from him. He says that only about two percent commutes longer than 45 minutes. So despite a severe reduction in travel time, from two to less than one hour, he believes that the labour markets in Molde and Ålesund can only be viewed to a limited extent as a common labour market. So he doesn't think it will be. As far as the tourist industry is concerned, I am quite convinced that they realize that tourists will rather see fjords and mountains, they will have a coffee and a swell and not be sent under the sea. That's a pretty important point, I think, because we're leaning pretty much on the tourist industry right now. Has the situation changed in technology in recent years? Of course it does. And the strange thing is that most people here in the hall applaud the electric ferries that are now coming in for full – 50–60 electric ferries are phased in. It's amazing. The county councils are in the front line. We also get the Colosse – I guess I say – container ship Yara Birkeland, which is going autonomously. It will also be applauded! But to discuss just planning autonomous, electric ferries on these enormously expensive fjord crossings, that won't be the big picture! Is it possible that you don't even want to figure it out? This is strange to me. We have environments like SINTEF and others that stand behind us and say that of course this is possible. Holidays can be scaled to different sizes. They're more flexible. Both bridges and tunnels are fixed on each side, and we are bound to it forever and ever. The ferries can be scaled, and we can also adopt new places to add the ferries. That gives you a lot of possibilities, and in my next post, I'll say a little bit about what this means for the industry. I'm addressing SV's suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1046	The representative Arne Nävra has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1051	Then I can say that we should vote against that proposal from the SV. This is because the Left has been involved in a settlement in the treatment of the national transport plan – adopted a little over a year ago – and I think it is quite clear that some ferry routes should be replaced by tunnel or bridge solutions. E39 is one of the most important transport years, particularly for payload and freight transport. That's a priority. Arne Nävra says the truck industry is against. At the hearings I've been to, they've said that they'll give priority to the ferry owners before they find a new solution. That's what I've heard that they will give priority, because there are major challenges to safety in tunnels, there are major challenges in racial areas, and there are challenges with bridges that can be in too poor a constitution, and with maintaining a breadth of security. It's the feedback I've heard from the industry, which is going on these roads all the time. That they are completely opposed to thinking about new bridge and tunnel solutions at all, I have not understood. I hope Arne Nävra can correct this if he has heard something else and has something else to say to it. At least it's nice that you also think about new technical solutions here. Autonomous ferries I think are also coming, and as Helge Orten said and pointed quite strongly, there may be a need for them as an intermediate solution. It's also important to bring it with us, and that's why we still have to be innovative and talk nice about those solutions. Now you're electrifying, and you might have to have even more automation and eventually maybe completely driverless ferries. I think that will also be the future, but that it will replace all the solutions mentioned in the NTP, I think it's too early to conclude with today. SV is impatient, I understand, but we will have this debate when we are going to give further priority in the future – some adjustments may be needed. But nevertheless, this is too early in terms of how far we have come with these solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1060	Technological development gives us new opportunities to develop good, efficient and environmentally friendly transport solutions. The transport sector is facing major changes. It is being reformed in several fields. The car fleet is electrified because electric car policy is working, and green shipping is on the rise with framework conditions that encourage development and innovation. Of course, we know that the main drivers of development are not political but are governed by international markets and megatrends. However, political decisions and policy-making framework conditions are important. And the state itself is an important market player. In the time that comes, we will, and we must, use our resources more effectively. New and more environmentally friendly fuels will be developed, the use of intelligent transport systems will provide more efficient solutions, and a more modern and adapted infrastructure will provide a better transport everyday life for all. This Christian People's Party welcomes this. In particular, solutions are important to reduce emissions from the transport sector. In the proposal, the proposers point to the potential of using new, emission-free and autonomous ferries. There is no doubt that autonomous ferries will arrive and that it will be part of the transport solutions ahead. It is already a reality. That is why, in the Christian People's Party, it is good that both the majority in committee and the Ministry of Transport are now so clearly expressing that they will follow closely the development of autonomous solutions. This should be included in the evaluation when new ferry connections are to be released. We know that technology is currently at the testing stage, but as the majority of the suspension writes, technology can in the long run help to provide travellers with a better offer on those ferry routes where it is not appropriate to replace regular ferry services. We need to take forward-looking and good policy decisions, which further develop the sector in terms of autonomous means of transport. But we probably have to put this into a slightly different context than what SV is doing here, so for my part, I refer to the majority's reason in the vote. Of course, the Christian People's Party also adheres to the assessments made in the National Transport Plan with regard to the E39. We therefore vote in favour of the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1071	This SV representative proposal is not initially a technology proposal. The government party is too new and modern technology. We are in order to facilitate autonomous ferries, but if one is going to define this representative proposal first, I think it is an advantage that I use my background from the slaughtering profession. This is a targeted attack on the bus and labour market regions that will be developing as a result of the free E39. It is a very targeted attack on the Western regions to experience the same dynamics as intercity development in central Austria. This places SV as it is: a party that is not busy building bus and labour market regions and facilitates commercial transport in the West. That's what this is essentially all about. Then we can always keep up in this discussion about autonomy and new technological solutions – extremely, extremely exciting. The Norwegian research environment is far ahead. We update the regulation quickly from the government's side to actually facilitate testing and testing new technology, but this proposal is not about it. It is about SV not wanting to spend money building construction and labour market regions in the West. Then we get to call a spade a spade, and this is a targeted attack on the bus and labour market regions of the West. Enterprises in the regions that are involved and build the country, which provides for value creation, which ensure that we have export goods in this country, as incentives for trade, growth and well-being, say every time we visit them, that there are two challenges they have: one is tax pressure, and the other is too bad infrastructure. Thus, through the National Transport Plan, the Storting has taken active steps to come much further in the next NTP period – to build new bus and labour-market regions in Rogaland, to build new bus and labour-market regions in the district of hot Western Europe, to build new bus and labour-market regions in More and Romesdal. This proposal is nothing but a solid attempt to reverse the current developments. We're going to work on technology. Also at weddings, there is a huge technological development to bring down costs, which is suddenly the SV's crown argument in connection with these investments. They never think about when they're going to build up the railroad in Austland, but here it's important. It's clear that we're going to bring down the costs. We're actively working on that. Only at the fjord crossing at Hordfast did the government announce that if one were to keep up with the priorities of the national transport plan, costs would have to be reduced. What happened then? Well, only so far has one said that one should be able to bring down the costs with another 8 billion. kr. Obviously, we're not going to spend our taxpayers' money if we can, but then we can't use the technology discussion about autonomous ferries to distort the necessary transportation projects in the West. Therefore, I am very pleased that the Storting does the only thing right with this proposal – put it aside and hopefully forget it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1083	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1088	I guess it wasn't so surprising that I took the floor. I first had a very positive view of the new Minister of Transport's form of debate, I had, but now I'm beginning to doubt a little bit. So he says outright that this is an attack on the labour market and business – I didn't get it all with me – more than it is a proposal for new technology, which is environmentally friendly and which will be forward-looking. So he sowed doubts about the motivation for our proposal. That's what I think is gross – that's now one thing – and I think it tends to be unfair. Does the Council of State not believe that the road between the ferries is the biggest problem – or is it the ferries themselves?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1097	Those of us who live and live in the West know that the roads between the ferry routes are also challenging. But it's the fjord crossing that makes the road stop at eleven o'clock in the evening, which means that if one didn't get the last ferry, one didn't get there with their goods, or home again. One did not get the dynamics that caused one to have more flexible working hours, simply because the ferry didn't go early enough, or stopped going too soon. For this reason, not only on the basis of the proposal of the representative, but on the basis of the arguments presented by the representative Nävra himself in his statement, I believe that this is not an open technology proposal. For the technology part of this, I'm for, but when a systematically connects it to the free E39 with the argument that it's too expensive to realize, so we shouldn't do that, shows one's true face. This is a targeted attack on the bus and labour market regions that need development in the West, and I am therefore pleased that the Stortinge says no.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1102	I thank you for an answer that was quite similar to the previous one. Has the Council ever reflected on how the government could use 200 billion? kr – let’s take it as a thought experiment – between the ferries in the West? Let's say that SV had supported that whole sum that had gone there. Would we still have been Western enemies or enemies of a common labour market in the West? Can the council imagine how much road – safer road, middle parts, yellow stripe, shoulders, straighter road, racist road – he could get for 200 billion. Do you really want to delete this item?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1109	Yes, of course it would have helped very much in the West, as in all other places, but it wouldn't have removed the fjords, and that's what's the basic structural challenge. I hear from the representative from SV that it may seem like a long time since he was in the West, at least in the evening, and saw the food transport that stops because the ferry doesn't go, and saw that a good transition, including mountain crossings, which are not really spared, which makes the goods stop, which makes the people of Molde really unable to commute to Ålesund today, but would have made it clear in the future, which makes the people of Sunnhordland active and attractive when Bergen, as a Bu- and labour market region, reaches Hordfast. That's what's basically about, and what surprises me is that it's the argument SV uses when they're building up intercity in Austland, while they refuse to use it when they're building E39 in the West.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1116	I think it's sad that this is using methods and a speech technique that makes us suspect that we're setting up the East towards the West. I know that the previous state council did the same thing. He went out in several locals and suggested it, and we had to answer that. But I'm not going to take a former state council on more than this. In order to take a new calculation, the Council of State has assessed how many departures we could have had on the ferries after eleven o'clock, and how much champagne could have been served on it for free, for the means we're talking about here? Probably they could go in one set every half hour for the means we're talking about. So that argument I have to say is very weak in terms of the use of funds and frequency on ferries.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1123	Not only for the sake of the Christian People's Party, but also for the sake of road safety, I will depend on the combination to drive a car and drink champagne – also on ferries in the West. Now I think we're at the heart of the matter: it's obvious that SV has forgotten what it's like to live in these areas. That is what I think is evident in this proposal for a representative, because it is about the fact that we do not have a choice. We have to get in the car, and we have to go on a ferry today. And we know, those of us who live there, that once in a while the ferry is hindering new bus and labour market regions, for greater flexibility for families, for greater flexibility and increased profitability for Norwegian business. It's okay for me that SV means what they're doing, but I don't think it's okay that you're not real about what the proposals mean. Therefore, I have called this, and will call it again, a targeted attack on new bus and labour market regions in the West.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1132	I record that the Council of State does not assess my question and my comments. He's talking on the side of my question. I would like to have an assessment of whether not frequent departures for parts of the funds it costs with tunnels or bridges could alleviate the problem that the Council of State mentions, with too rare departures on the ferries. That's a really important question. In addition, I just have to say that I have been quite a lot in the West. In my old life, I went after the deer in the West – I can tell the Council of State – and I know what it looks like in the West, I know there's a lot of raspberry and shit. Maybe some of the funds should have gone to it as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1139	The last one is completely correct. This is why Norway keeps up with a government that is investing in road construction – sometimes to strong criticism from the Socialist Left Party. I know that ferries can go more often if one buys more ferries and let them go more often. I admit that, but then we Westerners are obliged to go on ferry forever, where other parts of the country get bigger construction and labour market regions, with the dynamics it triggers. It loses business, it loses its inhabitants, and it will cause what SV often criticises us for, simply centralization in and around the big cities, to get extra speed, simply because one has to move there if one is to bow and have work there. It is a policy that is totally anti-district, it is a policy that destroys the capacity of the economy and the labour market in the West, and it is a policy from which I come.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1146	Then the cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1153	I want to make a pretty important point here, by referring to the Council of State and the Council of State statements before today in other matters, where he has referred to the investigation all along. He has referred to the fact that one and the other must be examined first, and in principle, of course, I fully agree with that. We are not going to make wrong decisions or decisions on the wrong basis. But in this case, the Council of State will not explore the possibility – and save a whole lot of tax money or apply it in another way that is good for Norwegian business – of developing our maritime industry. He won't even be involved in the planning of possible fjord crossings, the option of tunnels and bridges. Is it the case that the Council of State – I have to ask myself and would like to ask the Council of State – also does not take the technological environments seriously? SINTEF supports us in that it is absolutely possible, relevant and timely to include it in the planning, and there may be a lot to pick up. As we stand here talking, people sit and plan all kinds of technical solutions for fjord crossings – all kinds of things. For the time being, 1.3 billion have been used. kr, maybe 1.4 – this summer it was said 1.2 billion. kr – to plan something that it might not be of. I think there are more people in this room who are going to get cold feet every now and then, when they see the costs and what possibilities there are with autonomous zero-emission ferries. It's unfortunate that you're not more forward-looking in this room than choosing old technology and technology that we don't in Norway, especially, are good at exporting – it's not where we're in the driver's seat, it's in the maritime industry. I would say, as an important argument in the end: remember, in this green shift that we all want, at least verbally, we have to have these concrete knives to hang it on. We see it in connection with the phase-in of electric ferries, zero-emission ferries, we see it in the debate on environmental requirements for the coastal route offer, for example, we see it on the offensive proposals of the Hordaland County Municipality, we see it for Trondelag, with the speedboats, which are to have zero emissions. The maritime industry itself, to a large extent, wants us to be in the forefront. We can export technology within autonomous ferries, it's a very good bone to stand on in the shift we have to go through. And then you don't want to get involved in planning or figuring it out, along with the other options -- it's a little disappointing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1163	I would like to comment on Mr. Navra's statement. He talks a lot about technology development. As the Council of State said, major technological developments are taking place in bridge solutions both to reduce costs and to reduce safety by crossing the fjords with bridges. In addition, major tunnel and tunnel safety technologies are being developed. Based on the long tunnels in Rogaland — both Rogfast and Ryfast, which open next year — what is known as Norwegian Tunnel Safety Cluster, is the largest cluster of tunnel safety in Europe, if not in the world. There are 150 companies in the cluster. For food and work regions, as the representative Nävra mentioned: both LO and NHO, especially from the West, traveled to the Stortinget and asked for a ferry-free E39 which also contained upgrading. It was with the support of the organizations centrally. At the end of the day, in order not to drag this debate beyond what is necessary, I can say to my own amazement that I am – if not agreeing with the rhetoric of the Council of State – fully in agreement with the content of his statement on working regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1172	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee, the President shall propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 4 and 5 were debated together. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1207	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to three rows of replies be given to members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1216	Proposition 91 LS for 2017-2018 contains legislative proposals and decisions concerning changes to the Road Traffic Act requiring CO 2 emissions, consent to the approval of the inclusion of the EEA Committee, as well as regulations and related acts. So this is the same thing, but it is treated both as a law decision and as a case. We've put this together for practical reasons. This case specifies requirements for average emissions of CO 2 from new passenger cars and vans respectively. It is important to point out that the emission requirements are not targeted at individual car owners or car buyers but at car manufacturers. In this way, this case will not directly affect Norway as we do not have car manufacturers here in the country. The proposal is positive for the environment and will lead to lower emissions. It's a positive case for the environment, obviously. As the rapporteur, I have been contacted by several environments that are very positive to this proposal, which seem to be very good and have been concerned that we should approve it. It's also the committee. And the Committee's recommendation is unanimous and recommended by an overall committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1231	This is good news from the EU. It says in the case that it does not matter to Norway – it also referred to the rapporteur on the matter – because we all know that we do not have car manufacturers in Norway. But it actually matters. A total EU emissions requirement for car manufacturers means that they have to produce a certain number of non-emission vehicles. As we are all familiar with, we are very happy in electric cars in Norway, and this will lead to more electric cars being produced. That means we get a larger sample. In particular, we are very happy that we are going to get a larger sample of the cars that business demands, namely vans. So it's also good news for car dealers in Norway, and it's good news for us politicians who are busy bringing down the emissions from transport. It is a bit polite to comment on a positive news from the European Union at the Stockholm Chair.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1236	I shall not withdraw this substantially in time, because it is simply the adoption of regulations that really favour a greater ability to regulate car manufacturers. Besides that, I see that the committee has done a thorough and solid work with relatively few comments. I therefore intend to close the post and enjoy the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1241	The councils will be glad, because no one has asked for the word in reply. Nor has anyone asked for the word to the case no. Four and five.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1259	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that – within the allocated speaking time – up to six rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1268	Global trade by international companies has updated the challenges of moving profits out of Norway as intra-corporate transactions to countries with lower tax rates, so-called internal pricing. When this government reduces the tax rates, we can expect that there might be something less of this. There have been a number of discoveries in recent years about how international companies have tried to avoid taxation in Norway. In order to prevent tax evasion, in accordance with Norwegian law, internal pricing shall be based on the arm's length principle, i.e.: prices and conditions for goods and services shall be set as if they were concluded between independent parties. The internal pricing regulatory framework is based on internationally developed guidelines. International cooperation in this area is of great importance, and we are pleased that the government is actively involved in this. The aim of the National Audit Office’s investigation has been to assess the control of such transactions by the tax authorities and the results of such controls. The controls carried out by the tax administration from 2009 to 2016 have resulted in revenue corrections in the order of 79 billion. kr, or about 10 brd. kr annually. The main findings and recommendations of the National Audit Office are: The tax rate carries out few checks on internal pricing, but the checks carried out result in significant corrections of income. The National Audit Board recommends that more controls be considered. The implementation period for domestic pricing matters is long and there are unclear deadlines. The National Audit Board recommends that the obligation to provide the necessary documentation on internal pricing and deadlines be clarified. In addition, it should be assessed whether the penalties in domestic pricing cases are sufficient and whether they are sufficiently used. The Ministry of Finance does not have a good enough overview of the tax effects of the internal pricing controls, and this should be improved, according to the National Audit Office’s recommendation. The Committee considers it important to step up efforts to ensure the tax base and to prevent distortions of competition in Norwegian companies. Another aspect highlighted by the Committee is that the loss of tax revenue, which may be in the billions class, may also exacerbate the competitive situation of Norwegian enterprises. The Committee points out that the Riksrevision considers that it is being carried out for a limited number of internal pricing controls and that there is therefore a possibility that the State may over time lose significant tax revenue as a result of the significant revenue corrections resulting from the controls carried out. We therefore recommend that the Ministry of Finance assess whether the scope of internal pricing control is sufficient and give the necessary priority. The Committee has noted that the Council of State considers that the tax rate is closest to assessing its resource and instrument use based on risk and materiality and is therefore best suited to prioritising resources between the different tasks and areas. I expect that the tax rate also assesses this report from the Riksrevision very carefully. The Committee has noted that the tax rate will be reorganised from 1 January 2019 so that the current geographical breakdown into regions will be replaced by units with nationwide responsibility for each of their respective disciplines. Responsibility for internal pricing will be added to a separate internal pricing section, which will have a comprehensive responsibility. The Committee points out that the objective is to strengthen the tax base’s work on internal pricing, including the possibility of joint risk assessments, control selection and overall use of instruments. The Committee's observations are broadly unanimous, with a few exceptions. The National Audit Office considers it critical that the Ministry of Finance has not carried out evaluations and analyses of the tax effects of the income corrections in internal pricing cases. The majority of the Committee, the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV, agree – not unexpectedly – with this assessment. The other parties don't. Finally, it may be appropriate to mention that the tax rate is not the highest possible income, but that taxpayers pay the right tax in a timely manner. If the tax rate were to be governed by a maximum proceeds target, this could give unfortunate incentives and therefore also underlines to an overall committee that it is the right tax base and the correct tax decision that is the most important.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1298	I can essentially join the rapporteur's posts. If I ignore the small additional comment on the blessings of tax relief in this area too, it was a very broad comment from the Committee. I want to stress the seriousness of this matter, because we see it now, and I think the Minister of Finance has also said that as a current problem area in the future, the increasing tendency for multinational companies to be able to move profits by domestic pricing and not to enter the tax position in the countries where the values are actually created. I'm glad there's so much consensus about it. But that is precisely why I would like to mention briefly, before the Minister of Finance has the floor – so that I may even not take a reply – that I hope that the Minister of Finance will comment on the fact that the case-rapporteur was at the end, that the criticism promoted by the Riksrevision does not come from an overall committee, but from a majority of the committee. And perhaps even more specifically: with regard to what is very common in the control committee, that we repeat and endorse the recommendations, possibly some of the recommendations made by the Riksrevision, the majority do so – all except the Right Party and the Advance Party. So you're not in on those recommendations. That is why I think it is time to say – this matter is important, so I think I have to be allowed – that the answer letter from the Minister of Finance to the National Audit Office points to some extent too much on the subjectates, i.e. on the tax haven. It is clear that it is those who run the daily and the professional, but nevertheless it is that we know from Stortinget's side only the Council of State. And in this matter – if we agree on the importance of it, as I have the impression that we are – it is also important that the Council of State itself assumes responsibility for implementing e.g. the recommendations made by the Riksrevision. Therefore, I would urge the Council of State to comment in its statement on whether she takes seriously the criticism of the Riksaudition as the majority has given its agreement to the Committee, but not least whether the recommendations made by the Riksaudition and endorsed by a clear majority will form the basis for the further work of the Council of State on such an important subject area both for Norwegian business and for Norwegian taxation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1309	The efforts of the tax authorities in the field of internal pricing are important in order to ensure the Norwegian tax base. At the same time, this is one of the most challenging areas for both the tax rate and for tax authorities in other countries. Internal pricing is about setting the right price in contracts between related companies. This is an important work because wrong pricing will typically reduce the income of companies in Norway. It is often referred to as profit-moving, which may result in lower tax revenues. I agree that control of internal pricing is important. The controls of the tax revenue account for significant corrections of income. Let me immediately stress that these income adjustments are not necessarily the same as increased income to the state. Decisions are often appealed against, and many companies have carryable losses. However, I have a great deal of understanding that the Committee is committed to ensuring the proceeds from these matters. However, these individual amounts must be held up against the total proceeds provided by the tax haven — well over 1000 billion. kr every year. I believe that the overall proceeds are best protected by the fact that the tax rate has to make an overall assessment of the priority of the resources available to it. A specific feature of internal pricing is that changes by Norwegian tax authorities may result in double taxation if no similar changes are made by the party in the other country. Internal prices are rarely determined on the basis of exact sizes but as a result of several discretionary considerations. It's not always obvious what the right price is. These conditions result in complex and time-consuming control of the tax base on internal pricing, with the need for specialised professional competence. It is therefore limited how many cases the tax rate can control. I think the tax rate works well in this area. There has been an investment in internal pricing in the department in recent years, which is also referred to by the National Audit Office. The floor now spends about 100 years on internal pricing. The framework conditions for this work will be even better with the reorganization of the tax rate from New Year. The environments involved in internal pricing in the establishment will then be grouped together in a single unit, which was also presented by the rapporteur. This provides better opportunities for joint risk assessments and control selection and more holistic use of instruments. I have noted the Riksrevision's findings and recommendations on the tax haven's control in this area and will follow up on the etat's further work on this. And to the committee chairman's question: I always take seriously the views and criticisms of the National Audit Office. I believe it is important to go through it thoroughly and follow it up properly, and I agree that it may be reasonable to make further assessments as to whether the sanctioning funds of the tax haven are sufficient. In 2019, the Ministry will launch an evaluation of the documentation rules that companies must follow in their internal pricing. An assessment of the means of penalties should be seen in the context of this work. Then I would like to stress that progress in the field of internal pricing also requires international cooperation, and that we continue to participate in the development of good international standards. Here we have already achieved a lot, among other things. through the OECD BEPS project. In addition to following the OECD guidelines on internal pricing, the government has taken several initiatives to counter profit movements, including: by strengthening the interest rate limitation rule and introducing country-by-country reporting to the tax authorities. Our objective in international work is to contribute to good and agreed solutions that both tax multinationals effectively, reduce the possibility of unwanted tax adaptation and prevent double taxation. This work is important to the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1334	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1350	At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will suggest that, within the allocated speaking time, six rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time are given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1359	We are a lucky country when it comes to accessing energy. Yes, even if we ignore oil, we have great potential for further development of, among other things. bioenergy, wind power, hydropower and other environmentally friendly energy sources. Biogas is part of bioenergy with great potential, but this is mainly about other bioenergy, especially from the forest. Bioenergy is practically outside our house, in forests and fields. The aim was to increase bioenergy expansion by up to 14 TWh by 2020. The result is now in the Riksrevision report: one has only reached the puzzle 1.6 out of the 14 TWh a set of goals. The National Audit Office points to three main challenges. The one is little growth in the consumption of bioenergy, which I've been in for. The second is that the instruments used by the government have produced weak results. The third revision of the Riksrevision is the lack of overarching targets and strategies for increased production. Whether or not to build a long-term industry, governance needs to ensure that the long-term framework conditions for nutrition are in place. Unfortunately, this has not been the case for the bioenergy industries in this country. For this reason, I am pleased that the Committee, regardless of party and different governments, is self-searching when it comes to different approaches that have been taken in recent years. By changing the framework conditions from year to year, it has not been easy to build up the industry. What did e.g. Would the oil industry be here to land if it had conditions where we overnight changed the framework for both taxes and taxes? The investment in bioenergy that has taken place in the last few years has almost failed, not because of political governance. This is not the case, and the Committee considers that the Council of State and the College of Government will follow up the coordination requested by the Riksrevision and a Joint Committee towards the bioenergy industry. Norway's goal is to be far-reaching in the field of bioenergy. But to promote bioenergy here to countries, it must be based on political will. Market alone is not enough to produce the bioenergy industry. If we want Norway to be a big energy actor even after the oil age, we need to have a much faster pace in this area. It has emerged from the Committee's work that we want to be in favour of facilitating a future-oriented transformation of business in a greener direction. A straight-forward and forward-looking green business, local ownership and anchoring is, as I see it, the key to a lack of jobs across the country. Bioenergy is essentially about putting nature into action in a gentle way. In this work, we must never lose sight of the main objective, namely a better climate by reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The energy from biological material that bioenergy is involved in releasing CO 2, which is already part of the natural crop cycle. It is about district heating, local energy centres, industrial heating, houses, commercial buildings and public buildings that use this as a source of heat. Bioenergy is by far the only large cheek egg, and in this cheek egg there are five things at once: it is better climate, access to renewable resources, local resource use, local value creation and security of energy supply. However, in order to benefit from bioenergy, the means must be targeted and risk capital made available for new projects. We need to ensure that our renewable natural resources are developed in a way that ensures that both the builder and the community receive their legitimate share of the values created. The national audit has recommended that the three departments involved should evaluate the results, establish a common understanding of the objectives and priorities set, and develop a common strategy for bioenergy in this country in order to ensure the best possible and sustainable future. This has been agreed by the Committee. As spokesman for the case, I have said, together with the Committee in our configuration, that this area should be the theme of a separate big message, just to get a common understanding, which seems to be necessary to get in place. But let me add for my own account: it's not just the departments that have to coordinate with each other, the same thing should be the directorate that is also involved in making the premise for the industry in the future. Finally, there are many actors around our long-range country who stand ready and want to be involved in the further work and get more bioenergy in place. The goal must be that those who are the value chain for this can ultimately be involved in building Norway as an energy nation with multiple legs to stand on. I'm glad we have a common setting from everyone. Finally, there is one particular comment here, which I expect the representative to put forward himself. I thank the Committee for its good cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1390	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on the Work of the National Audit Office. To achieve the climate targets set by Norway, we need to turn production and consumption in a climate-friendly direction — and this must be done quickly. We have to apply zero-emission solutions where possible, and we have to use bioenergy to replace fossil energy. The Government attaches great importance to following up the objectives and instruments adopted by the Storting. A number of instruments have therefore been put in place to support increased production and use of bioenergy in recent years. Innovation Norway provides support for bioenergy in agriculture and for pilot plants for biogas. Support is also provided under the agricultural agreement for the supply of manure to biogas plants. Enova provides support for, inter alia: district heating, which facilitates increased bioenergy production. Enova also supports biogas production plants, advanced biofuels and biogas vehicles. Enova has also provided significant support for the production of biopellet and biocoal from forest raw materials. For example, a new biocarbon plant is supported on Follo by 138 million. kr. The Electricity Certificate Scheme may support power generation based on bioenergy in the same way as other renewable power generation. Biofuels are strongly promoted through the turnover requirement for biofuels for road transport. The turnover requirement is escalated and in 2020 it will be 20 pst. From 2017, a sub-requirement on the share of advanced biofuels has been introduced, which is also stepped up. This will provide strong incentives to use e.g.: biofuels from forest raw material. From 2020, we also introduce marketing requirements for aviation. Bioenergy use has increased significantly in the transport and district heating sectors in recent years. In the wood processing industry, use has fallen, and in households, use may vary, depending on winter temperature. Persistently low electricity prices have made bioenergy less competitive. In the wood processing industry, which has traditionally been a major user and producer of bioenergy, several plants have been closed down in recent years. In the construction sector, increased energy requirements have reduced heating requirements. In addition, competing technologies, such as heat pumps, have emerged. These are external factors that have shifted towards less competitive bioenergy. In my opinion, such moments could also be more clearly seen in the conclusions of the National Audit Office. I would also like to stress that the objective highlighted by the Riksrevision in the report is as follows: ‘Safe targeted and coordinated use of bioenergy for increased bioenergy deployment by up to 14 TWh by 2020.’» The wording is also explicit on the increased development of ‘up to 14 TWh’. The National Audit Board recommends the establishment of a common understanding of the Storting's objectives and assumptions for bioenergy. Over the years, we have had a targeted and coordinated use of instruments aimed at both the production and use of bioenergy. The government presented its biogas strategy in 2014 and a bioeconomy strategy in 2016. In addition, we have the bioenergy strategy from 2008. The government is constantly working to improve the use of instruments in climate and environmental policies in the light of new knowledge and changing assumptions. It is important that we take with us the National Audit Office's analysis of the government's commitment to bioenergy in the further work, as well as the lack of target achievement that we have had since the decision in the Stortinget in 2008. We also take with us the Committee's position and will constantly look at possible points of improvement.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1419	Bioenergy is a good renewable resource in the Norwegian energy system and is relevant in both industry, district heating, building heating and increasing transport. The Government places great emphasis on following up the objectives and instruments adopted by the Storting and a number of instruments have been put in place to support increased production and use of bioenergy. Let me mention someone. Enova has supported the development of heaters based on bioenergy and for biogas and advanced biofuels production plants as well as biogas vehicles for many years. Enova has also provided significant support for the production of biopellet and biocoal from forest raw materials. The Electricity Certificate Scheme may support power generation based on bioenergy, in line with other renewable power generation. Innovation Norway provides support for bioenergy in agriculture and for pilot plants for biogas. Support is also provided under the agricultural agreement for the supply of manure to biogas plants. Biofuels are also strongly promoted through the system of marketing requirements and sub-requirements for advanced biofuels. Bioenergy use has increased significantly in the transport sector in recent years, and also in district heating. In wood processing, use has fallen, and in households, use may vary, depending on the winter temperature. Some external conditions have influenced the use of bioenergy. Reduced power prices have made bioenergy less competitive. In the wood processing industry, which has traditionally been a major user and producer of bioenergy, several plants have been closed down in recent years. In the construction sector, increased energy requirements have reduced heating requirements. In addition, competing technologies, such as heat pumps, have emerged. These are external factors that have shifted towards less competitive bioenergy. In my opinion, such moments could have been more visible in the National Audit Office's assessments. The National Audit Board recommends the establishment of a common understanding of the Storting's objectives and assumptions for bioenergy. I have no objection to that, but nevertheless I would say that the Riksrevision could have been something more precise in the representation of the Storting's formulations on the bioenergy investment. The size has been busy that we're going to ‘Safe targeted and coordinated use of bioenergy for increased bioenergy deployment by up to 14 TWh by 2020’. Over the years, we have had targeted and coordinated use of instruments, targeting both the production and use of bioenergy. The government presented a biogas strategy in 2014 and a bioeconomy strategy in 2016. In addition, we have the bioenergy strategy from 2008. I will refer to the government's ongoing efforts to improve the use of instruments in climate and energy policy in the light of new knowledge and changing assumptions. We're taking with us the National Audit Office's analysis of government's commitment to bioenergy into the further work, and we'll look at possible improvement points.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1441	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1446	Now two state councils have said a lot about what has been done, and there is no doubt that hard work has been done. But in working on this matter, I have received many feedback from the industry working in this field. What they lack most is a proper review and a real message, so that you get a whole plan for this, so that they have a little bit more to stick to. They feel that there are too many single things and too few forwards. What would the State Council like to do to correct this?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1453	I want to refer to the post I kept and the review of the job done with this. The government presented a biogas strategy in 2014 and a bioeconomy strategy in 2016. In addition, we have the bioenergy strategy from 2008. It is important that the instruments are well coordinated between departments and there should be a common understanding of the objectives and assumptions of the Storting. Then we'll take the recordings from the Riksrevision, and then we'll think that we have a good tool for the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1458	What matters to me is that when the industry, despite the plans that lie there today, feels that they are not able to exploit the potential because of its uncertainty, it is important that a person not only looks at the national audit report, but also the messages that come from those who are active in the industry. That's after all the people who know what's going on to build up that bet. I hope the Council of State can be positive about taking a review.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1463	The government keeps looking for improvements, and so do we in this area. I would also like to refer to what I said in my article about the review of the instrument.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1468	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1474	As the rapporteur said, I have what my committee colleagues refer to as a special comment, and I have no problems with accepting it. It sounds like this: ‘The Committee’s member, Carl I. Hagen, shows that he is well-known as a climate-realist with the view that climate change has always occurred and that it is largely determined by nature and the planet itself. This member believes that the use of large amounts or legal rules or obligations to reduce the emissions of the life-giving gas CO 2 is very unwise. However, this member accepts that the basis of the government’s policy is the ‘Jeloea Declaration’, and will therefore refrain from making alternative proposals, even if this member is personally opposed to the directive on blending biofuels.’;» In the next case I also have a special comment, where I end up like this: ‘This member, however, takes part in most of the Committee’s comments because its views are on the follow-up to the deliberations of the Ministry, and any department has to comply with the decisions taken by a magnificent body, even if they are unwise.’ The background for this is in the note. I have great problems with logically understanding that if the CO 2 content of the atmosphere were to increase from 0.04 pst., as it is about today, to e.g. 0.045 pst., it will have great meaning. We also know that during the Viking period the globe was approx. three degrees warmer than it has been in recent years, and it was, as I used to say, not so many Vikings who drove around in diesel cars. We also know that back in time, the climate has changed many times. And we have seen that those who are followers of this new religion that CO 2 has a great impact on the climate, those who believe in this religion, because it has become a religion – often referred to as deniers, that is, that we deny a god, namely the United Nations Climate Panel, the IPCC – has never succeeded in explaining the reasons why we have had climate change for thousands of years – if it were to be suddenly emitted by the living gas CO 2, which all those involved in agriculture know is very good for the plants and, as we learned at school, it was absolutely crucial for the existence of humanity and the planet. The logic suggests that there is no reason to believe in that religion. We know that around the Viking Age there was also grain production in Greenland, and we know that the forest border in Norway has gone up and down. So to all intents and purposes logical thinking suggests that the climate will always be changing, and that it has little meaning what we humans do, as from outside, from space, looks like some small ant, like an ant. There is little reason to believe that, and fortunately, more and more scientists around the world say that they have no faith in the UN Climate Panel and the Assembly that makes up the Summary for Policymakers, which consists of government missions – not scientists, but government missions – that negotiate. This theme is also used to – in particular – transfer large amounts from the so-called rich countries to the poor countries, on the grounds that when we prevent developing countries, which often receive assistance from Norway, we refuse them access to reasonable energy. Reasonable energy, the most reasonable, is in the form of coal, and there we now fortunately have new technologies that generate less emissions of the harmful things from coal-fired power plants. And what would we in the five-million-year-old little Norway have of impact on the global climate, when we know that hundreds of coal-fired power stations in India and China are planned and under construction? So if we in Norway reduce slightly, it has no impact on the climate. I allow myself to be one of the few who still dare to say this also here in Stortinget, but I speak of course on my own behalf and know very well that the Progress Party and the Advance Party Group are bound by a government cooperation based on the Jeløya Declaration, where I assume that our people lost this case, and then we get the best possible implementation. But personally, I'm of a completely different opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1511	The national audit carried out a thorough and good analysis of the bioenergy input of the authorities. There are several departments responsible for policy in this area, but the departments still have a slightly different role to play. The role of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food is primarily to facilitate supplies of raw materials for bioenergy production. Forest resources represent the main raw material for bioenergy and increased bioenergy production has been a priority area of agricultural policy since the early 2000s. Norway has large unused forest resources. The forest volume has tripled in the last hundred years, while the highest level has remained unchanged for several decades. This has led to a accumulation of mature forest now accounting for 400 million. m 3, or 40 pst. of all Norwegian forests. There was an analysis of the raw material potential behind the target set in 2008. The formula to facilitate increased bioenergy deployment by up to 14 TWh was not intended as an obligatory objective, but to clarify an opportunity room. Later, the potential is intended to be much higher than 14 TWh. We've expressed to the Riksrevision that they've done a good and thorough analysis. At the same time, we have pointed out that the analysis should address two important issues. One is the dynamics of political goals over time. Changes in society and thus changes in the energy market have led to changes in energy policy since 2008. The second aspect that should have been clarified is the impact of the introduction of the ECS in 2012. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food, in cooperation with the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the Ministry of Climate and Environment, led the THEMA Consulting Group to carry out an analysis of this in 2016, confirming a weak competitive position for bioenergy. How the departments will follow up the results of the report is under assessment, but we have not yet concluded. The government’s policy is to facilitate the profitable production of renewable energy in Norway. In addition to the role on the raw material side, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food has also chosen to support the development of a small scale bioenergy market. In 2003, the Bioenergy Programme was established. The programme provides investment support for farmers and forest users who will produce bioheat for other sectors of society or convert their own energy consumption from fossil energy to renewable bioenergy. The main customer for the sale of bioheat has been the municipalities. In this demarcated market, very good results have been achieved in relation to the potential. In total for the years 2003 to 2017, 2 000 installations with a total energy capacity exceeding 400 GWh have been established. The annual greenhouse gas savings are estimated to be 78 000 tonnes of CO 2. In addition, it is history that many farmers have been reduced in energy costs and that it has contributed locally to profitable jobs. Since 2008, it has developed a recognition that biomass resources should be given greater priority to the production of biofuels rather than heat production. The need for emission reductions is greatest in the transport sector, and biofuels will be an important part of the solution alongside electrification. It is therefore important that governments support both research and other instruments in the development of a Norwegian production of so-called advanced biofuels. Such fuels provide the largest greenhouse gas savings, and at the same time we have a unique opportunity to establish a new value chain based on Norwegian raw material. Tuesday this week we were able to read in Today's Business News about the company Biozin's plans for billions of investments in a biofuel production plant – so-called advanced biopetroleum. The raw material must be by-products from sawmilling, deciduous trees, bark and other forest waste. This will contribute both to the re-creation in Norway of by-products from the most valuable use of timber to plank and to lower greenhouse gas emissions. I think the time is working for higher ambitions for the use of bioenergy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1540	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1545	We just heard the representative Carl I. Hagen explain his special remark. My question to the Hoksrud State Council is: Does the Hoksrud Government Council agree with what Carl I. Hagen presented here?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1556	I think the representative Carl I. Hagen explained very well that it is the way that, as the Council of State in this government, I follow up on what is the government's policy, and what has been adopted in connection with the Jeløya platform. I do. The representative heard here – I hope so – a government council that was very offensive and thought this was an important and exciting area. It's about exploiting the potential of some of the things that would never have been used, or would have been poor sales of, and that a company is now trying to see the possibilities for – getting into a position to exploit it even better and use it in Norway. I think it's very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1561	I'll be willing to interpret the answer as no. I hope that's a correct interpretation. But then a question to what the state council said, it concerns his assessment of both Biozin and other opportunities for tiles and other products from the forest. I heard the Council of State say that he has an assessment of how to follow up the recommendations of the National Audit Office. None of the two former state councils have been precise on that, so then the state council Hoksrud gets answers on behalf of the government. There are recommendations supported by a unanimous committee in Stortinget. And one of those recommendations is to develop a common and agreed bioenergy strategy. The strategy should also include fiscal instruments. And then the question is, has the government now begun to consider whether to follow unanimous remarks from the Storting? Isn't it that the government should absolutely do that, and could say clearly yes to it?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1568	The government has not discussed in concrete terms whether it is appropriate now to develop a new bioenergy strategy. My immediate assessment is that bioenergy investment should be mentioned in the context where it is part of a professional whole. The paper on energy policy, as the government presented in 2016, addressed the role of bioenergy in energy policy. We're going to follow the recommendations of the National Audit Office. Of course, we will also follow up on what the Storting has decided.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1575	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1580	The document we are discussing today points to important factors such as the reasons why we have not come as far as we wanted and should have been, in increasing the element of bioenergy in the total Norwegian energy production. The conclusions of the National Audit Office are clear and there is no doubt about the outcome, which is far from the objective of the area. Small growth in bioenergy consumption has made a significantly less climate contribution than the resource potential of Norway offers, but also the report’s focus on lack of instruments, lack of coordinated strategies and not least predictability tells of major weaknesses in the bioenergy strategy. When the consumption of bioenergy has only increased from 15.4 TWh in 2008 to 17 TWh in 2016, it says the most. There has been very limited growth in the production and use of bioenergy, which is much lower than envisaged in the 2007 Climate Change Communication. It is also alarming when the report can tell that the growth in bioenergy consumption has mainly come from imported biofuels and little from the resource potential in Norway, which could have been exploited in a much better way than is the case. The rapporteur has given a good review of the Committee's assessments and conclusions, which I agree with. I therefore see no need to repeat it, but also focus on one aspect that the report points to as an important reason for the discouraging outcome of this initiative. Not only the National Audit Office, but also the State Councils of the Ministry of Climate and Environment, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Ministry of Oil and Energy agree that foreseeable framework conditions on the part of the authorities are important if such a commitment is to be successful. However, the study shows that changes in instruments and unclear signals from the authorities may have inhibited increased production and use of bioenergy. For example, in 2010 the Ministry of Finance imposed a user charge on biodiesel, and businesses that had based their investments in biodiesel production plants on a continued exemption from the user charge, felt that this charge significantly reduced their expected profitability. It is therefore worth noting that the Riksrevision considers that the authorities have been too under-coordinated in the design of measures to promote the increased production and use of bioenergy, and that this has given little predictability and greatly impaired investment in this area. It should therefore be a central task for the government to coordinate the management and use of instruments in the departments concerned. Today, when we talk about a successful electric car strategy in Norway and like to show it to the rest of the world, it is not least about predictability. There have been effective framework conditions that have remained unchanged for many years and have contributed to the creation of a market and attitudes among purchasing groups that have produced results. People have dealt with the tools and believed in them. Therefore, there are good reasons to conclude that a few for a bioenergy production in Norway of a certain volume must be able to relate to framework conditions that must last over time. Constant changes in the assumptions and lack of coordination of resources do not underpin new efforts that contribute to increased demand and the establishment of an industrial environment that dares to invest in bioenergy. We need a policy in this area that can learn from what we have not achieved – despite bold goals. I have no doubt that predictable and stable framework conditions over time are of great importance.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1601	I take the floor because the Committee on Energy and the Environment is working on future policies and how we are going to implement this, and then set goals that create the effects we want. It is therefore commendable that we have the National Audit Office, which has gone through this sector and pointed out the challenges we face in governance, and also to exploit the tools we want to provide. Predictability in policy is important. We have now had that with regard to the integration requirement for passenger transport, from 8 to 20 pst. By 2020, and we see that we actually have biofuels to blend in. The government and the majority have now also agreed that we will establish a biofuel integration requirement for aeroplanes, from 2020 onwards. There is predictability to which investors can relate. We also need to keep an eye on it. We've been through some crises -- a financial crisis, a halving of the oil price. We have also had some challenges in the forest and wood industry in Norway, which has closed down in recent years, as well as changes in the user tax from 2009. Now we see that the timber prices are so good that the entire capacity of the forest industry is filled. All forest contractors use all the capacity to extract wood because there are so good prices. Much goes to export, but at least it has saved our forest sector through a turbulent time. The challenge now is that the part of the logging that remains in the forest is not today the capacity to extract. We have to do something about that. We need to make the instrument work to extract branches and tops to create the energy chips we need for the heat market and for biofuel production. When Biozin points out an investment direction of 3.5 billion kr in Åmli, it must be tile to put on the tank. So we have to build that part of the value chain now, before the factories stand there. We can't start taking out chips after we've got the factories, when we've invested billions – and also used state subsidies through the tool to build these factories. It's a challenge we're in the middle of now. We have to make this work. It is a fissure layer and a virtue that we on the public side also have to contribute to – and do not expect a whole new entrepreneurship chain to be built in that part of the wood sector that is currently not entirely available. It's a challenge that we're pointing to in the future, and we're very happy that you've got this report, which so clearly points to some of the challenges of making the instrument work together. Then we politicians must also be involved in chiseling out new goals in order to achieve the objectives of bioenergy that we have set ourselves and that we are going to pursue.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1615	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1620	I take the word to just make some comments. There is no doubt that the Riksrevision report shows that the lack of predictability has been a problem over the years. Now, when we're going to work forward, we need predictability, and there's no doubt that more bioenergy is needed to achieve the climate goals in 2030 and beyond. As others have pointed out, many initiatives are now being taken via Enova and other initiatives. However, there is, in particular, the inclusion requirement in fuel that is a driver for increased use of bioenergy, especially advanced biofuels. It is then important to be able to have predictability. We know that this is not a simple discussion, because we also have the problem of blending palm oil within the integration requirement. We need to be able to reinforce the commitment to zero-emission solutions while at the same time bringing about a development of more advanced biofuels and more advanced biofuels produced in Norway. I think it's important that we stick to that policy. Now we have a regulation towards 2020. We are going to see if it is possible to have more advanced biofuels already in 2020, but new targets need to be set in the years to come, and they need to be in time for business to be able to relate to them as well. There are several things that are happening at the same time. We are in the final phase of a debate with the EU on the joint implementation of climate objectives by 2030. We need to put that in place. We are also going to evaluate our own climate targets and report them under the Paris agreement in 2020, and then the government is going to present a plan for how to achieve our climate goals in 2030. Bioenergy will have to be a central part of the solution to achieve the 2030 targets, because zero-emission solutions will not be available quickly enough. Biofuels – bioenergy – are essential to the achievement of the objectives. In many areas there will be an intermediate solution, but in many areas there is also the long-term solution in biofuels. It's just to refer to the first year we get a integration requirement also in aviation, 2020, with just advanced biofuels, and we're the first country in the world to have such a requirement.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1633	I think that today's debate, and not least the introduction by the leader of the Energy Committee, is clear – and shows the challenges with – that an absolute need to get a comprehensive review of this, so that one can see it. I hope and understand it so that the government takes this seriously and will move it on. I think you can see this coming together, and drag this in with taxes and taxes – how one can connect it together – we have the potential for a real growth in Norwegian bioenergy in the future, which we need both to achieve climate goals and to get a value creation across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1638	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1654	At the request of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1663	Asbjørn Svendsrud, professor of forest economics at the Norwegian agricultural high school from 1978 to 1997, wrote everything in 1955, in the introduction to a manual on forestry: ‘Forest use is one of our most important industries. It is therefore clear that the forest has an interest not only in individual forest owners but in society as a whole.’ All forests are important, but some forests, such as the rainforest is particularly important. Yeah, the rainforest is a good example of forest not only being interesting for the individual forest owners, but for the whole community around. Therefore, it was right that the government enabled us to be in a lift to take care of and develop the rainforest. Through the REDD+ exposure, which forms the basis of the report prepared by the Riksrevision, we in Norway have taken an important responsibility for investing in carbon uptake and storage in forests. The Committee has essentially joined the Riksrevision and shares the concerns expressed in the report on the international climate and forest activity of Norway. I have no doubt that a large part of the solution to our climate challenges is also in forest resources. The Committee has seen, on its own initiative, how, through cooperation and contributions at international level, good communities can be involved and developed in the context of national and local governance. At the same time, the REDD+ exposure is more than we have seen in Brazil. The rainforest is like a belt around the equator, but the challenge is that the belt has been smaller in recent years. Forest work and culture are long-term work. It is now eleven years since the Stortinget agreed to this work, and seen in a forest historical context, eleven years are short. Nevertheless, the Riksrevision report is important as a roadside check, since there is a lot of new policies to be developed across borders and cross-border conflicts. As I said, we have joined in the criticism that the Riksrevision has raised, where they have pointed out in particular five areas we should not be content with. Firstly, the results are delayed and uncertain, the control does not work well enough, other countries do not set up to the extent that one should like, the Ministry of Climate and Environment is not systematic enough in its follow-up work, and the follow-up to the risk of miscarriage is not good enough. The Committee has also noted its response to the report, which insists that much good work has been done and results achieved. In its opinion, the Committee stressed that Norway, as a small forest nation with large resources, should be a good example for other countries that will achieve both climate policy and development policy objectives. But it's also so that we would wish that other donor countries had made even greater contributions than what has so far been given to the bet. That is precisely why I am pleased that the Committee has concluded that it is important that we continue our efforts, even if other countries do not put more into the pot. Putting money into the bet makes it necessary with good control. As with the Riksrevision, we are concerned about weak progress in the extensive effort to facilitate emission reductions through national REDD+ initiatives. At the same time, it is positive that many developing countries have shown an interest in participating in the work, as 36 countries have received social benefits from Norway. We have commended from the committee on the follow-up that our ambassador in Brazil has provided for his work on the funds. From our side, it's so important that this is also a signal to those who, on behalf of us, manage the money elsewhere we're betting. This is happening today, among others. in Colombia, Indonesia and Congo. We expect the Council of State will also follow up on the recommendations of the National Audit Office and the Committee in its further work. For those of us who have been busy with forestry for many years, there has been a red thread between the Swedes wrote in 1955 and the formations we visit in Pará in Brazil. Here we found a sample of the more than 2,000 families who have been supported by the Fund, who through training and further development have strengthened agriculture and forestry in their area, and who ensure sustainable use. For as Svendsrud wrote in 1955: «A conscious forest policy must be based on knowledge of the prevailing forest conditions and the real opportunities for forest production. Furthermore, forest policy must assess the need for forest production in the long term.’ [[...]] The same is true of the REDD+ bet. It's a policy for a long-term management of the rainforest that's for our benefit – both the individual that lives there, and the rest of us that depend on the living forest. As rapporteur, I would finally like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation and for the organization of the Committee's secretaries and the embassies in Brazil in connection with our views.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1699	For several years, Norway has been very central in establishing a system for — and framework for — cooperation to preserve tropical forests in developing countries. The effort that Norway has been behind has been a bit unique in many ways, simply because it has been our greatest international climate action. From 2008 to 2017, a total of $22.5 billion was spent. kr. However, the initiative has also been the subject of a number of major discussions, not least in terms of getting effective, and measured against measures at home in Norway, i.e. the discussion that Norway is buying itself free from doing things nationally. When the National Audit Office has looked at and assessed the impact of the instrument on reducing greenhouse gas emissions as a result of deforestation and forest degradation in developing countries, I think that many in several environments are quite interested in looking at what actually emerged. It is written in the report that the results are both delayed and uncertain. That's not good news. It can be seen that there may be challenges with co-operative countries that can deal with conflicts of interest and different policy priorities that delay. You can see that even if you stop at most one place, it can trigger at most another place, which is also a known risk. The monitoring of implementation and results is not good enough, and we also see that although Norway is a huge contributor to REDD+, it has not received sufficient funding from other donors. For some of us who have been concerned with climate issues for a long time, it has been very important. The fact that others, too, were to contribute, we have actually considered it a prerequisite for the large Norwegian contribution, and it is of course discouraging that it is not so – not only in view of the large amounts actually used, but also because it goes directly beyond the ambitions of Norway to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We also see that the Riksrevision points out that the department has not followed up on the risk of maladministration well enough. That of course gives cause for concern. When Norway spends 420 million. It is clear that it is not in line with the guidelines adopted by the Ministry for the Conservation of the Rain Forest in the Congo Basin, but does not freeze funds when research is started. I think almost no one underestimates the importance of preserving forests and preventing greenhouse gas emissions — or indeed, there are obviously some, but most of us want the intentions and objectives of Norway to be achieved. That is why I am really glad that the Riksrevision has revealed the weaknesses and also made clear recommendations for the way forward. Nor can we emphasize what the Committee also says in its comments, that it is of the opinion that measures under the REDD+ programme have had a good effect. It's also important to bring it with you. What is needed now is that this report and the entire climate and forest effort are closely followed up by the Department, that there is a broad dialogue with the governmental authorities in the various countries, that there are some challenges in the major countries, that proper security mechanisms are rigged, that money use and defaults are checked, and that measures are put in place that produce real results. It will also be important for the Energy and Environment Committee here at Stortingen to follow this work closely. The fight to limit the damage caused by man-made climate change is the biggest challenge of our time, and it is demanding to find the best and most effective solutions, as the report we are now discussing confirms. However, I would like to stress that despite the fact that it is demanding, it is important that Norway continues to take a great deal of responsibility, and that we dare to take action, even though we know that they are complex and difficult.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1716	It is reported that the world’s rainforests are being reduced at record speed. 2017 was actually the worst year for the destruction of tropical forests ever. Then, according to a report from the World Resources Institute, an area corresponding to 40 football courses was swept down every minute. This is serious. Norway contributes a great deal to the protection of the rain forest. In the last ten years, Norwegian authorities have used under 23 billion. kr in different rainforest projects, and Brazil is the country receiving the most. Norway’s major international forest activity is linked to the work of the United Nations Convention on Climate Change in testing and establishing a framework for the REDD+ programme. This is work on increasing carbon uptake in forests in developing countries. REDD+ is about technical assistance and support to reduce and stop at the top of the forest. The aim of the National Audit Office’s study has been to assess whether Norway’s international climate and forest performance is a successful and effective instrument for reducing greenhouse gas emissions from deforestation and forest degradation in developing countries. The National Audit Office's report refers to five main findings, and when we read them, we see that they are not optimal. It says: The results of REDD+ are so far delayed and uncertain. The monitoring of the implementation and results of REDD+ is not working well enough. The Norwegian contribution to REDD+ has not triggered enough funding from other donors. The Ministry of Climate and Environment is not systematic enough in the collection and use of information on results. The Ministry's follow-up to the risk of maladministration is not good enough. These findings must be followed up. The committee was on a study trip to Brazil, as several have said here, earlier this fall, and we got a close look at the results of climate and forest activity. We visited two projects supported by the Amazon Fund in the Amazon rainforest. One project supports more than 2000 families with about 20 000 per family. The farmers teach agriculture a little new way, with new techniques, so that they don't have to clear more forests to live off the ground. The second project is to support local communities in developing a sustainable forest economy. The population is trained in the use of forests in a sustainable way through limited horticulture and replanting, as well as in the production of timber and furniture for sale. We received feedback that the support was very important. It contributes to sustainable development and young people in the rainforest choose more than before living and feeding in the rainforest. It's positive. Unfortunately, the tallest rain forest has not gone down as much as desired. But despite this, I believe it is important to continue this effort. Norway’s efforts, contributions and importance in climate and forest activities are important and are also exemplary. I think, in particular, the REDD+ programme should be given a better mention and more positive attention in the Riksrevision report. The Committee has seen, through self-confidence and contact with one of the largest beneficiary countries, that Norway’s contribution is important and that it produces results, but that things take time. Delayed payments due to conflicts of interest and changing political priorities delay and hinder action, but we need to monitor that the money goes to projects that produce results and that there is no default of funds. In Brazil, it was reliable to see that our ambassador, Nils Martin Guneng, on behalf of the Norwegian state was so on and so involved in the management of the funds in the Amazon Fund. An important guide from the EEA is to follow-up social and environmental protection mechanisms in the countries implementing the REDD+. Combating poverty, the rights of indigenous peoples and the conservation of natural forests must be seen in the context. The weighting of one must not be at the expense of the other. This so we worked on the projects we visited in the Amazon rainforest. The National Auditor believes that this can be followed up better, and I am pleased that the Council of State in its response takes this seriously and will ensure that it should be done better. So far, the Norwegian climate and forest investment has not triggered enough funding from other donor countries. In the United Kingdom and Germany, there may be large amounts of money, but Norway accounts for the highest contribution. The Committee believes that Norway should continue to be at the forefront, although we may be at risk of being alone in the implementation of some projects. There's a lot of counterpower. It is therefore important to show the way and continue to work to get more partners involved. Greenhouse gas emission reductions from tropical forests are pointed to as essential in order to achieve the objectives of the climate agreement to limit global warming to less than 2 degrees. It's serious. Authorities, companies and organisations must do more, not less. I am pleased that Norway takes responsibility and contributes to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1758	The matter we are dealing with today is important. It is important because we are talking about large values – economic values for taxpayers in Norway and large natural resources that are important to the world. Let me first thank the case rapporteur for the work he has done on the matter. We have come to a unanimous vote with unanimous comments from the Committee. A good job has been done by the rapporteur. Let me also state that for me and the Progress Party, this matter is not primarily about the debate on climate, nor is it the debate on whether it is right that Norwegian taxpayers and Norway should contribute so much more than other countries. This matter is primarily about how the funds allocated by alternate governments have been used, how the control of the funds has been carried out, and about results. I am pleased that the Riksrevision in its report is clear in its recommendations, with which a unanimous committee concludes to be followed up. Although the rapporteur and previous speakers have mentioned the findings of the Riksrevision report, I would also like to refer to these: The results of REDD+ to date are delayed and uncertain. The monitoring of the implementation and results of REDD+ is not working well enough. The Norwegian contribution to REDD+ has not triggered enough funding from other donors. The Ministry of Climate and Environment is not systematic enough in the collection and use of information on the results of the Norwegian climate and forest initiatives. The follow-up of the ministry on the risk of maladministration is not good enough. When we talk about risk of default, we have to remember what the amount is about. In the period 2008–2017, a total of 23.5 billion was allocated. kr for the bet. This must be said to be a significant investment, and it is alarming that the Riksrevision notes that the results are uncertain and that the monitoring is not working properly enough. The National Audit Office has clear recommendations for follow-up and recommends that the Ministry of Climate and Environment: further develop measures to address the need for sustainable results in REDD+ through efforts towards the United Nations Convention on Climate Change and bilateral cooperation; strengthen the Ministry's information base on the provision of social and environmental protection mechanisms when paying for results; strengthen the follow-up to the Norwegian contribution to REDD+ by systematically collecting and processing information on progress and results in the Norwegian climate and forest initiative; provide for a responsible and active follow-up of the risk and use of reactions in the event of deviations and warnings of potential economic inequalities; These are recommendations to which the Progress Party subscribes. It is also good to speak clearly from the government in this matter, and the Council of State determines in its response to the Riksrevision and to the Committee that the four recommendations of the Riksrevision will be followed up. In particular, I would like to highlight the importance of reducing defaults when and if it is revealed. There is no doubt that it may be difficult to operate in several of the countries where this investment takes place, but with such amounts we rely on confidence that these are used for the purpose. You should not be afraid to hold back money, nor to have consequences for those involved, whose defaults are revealed. Although there is uncertainty about the overall results of all projects in all countries, there is no doubt that the programme has had a good impact in many areas and means far too many. In self-esteem, I and the committee have visited families living in the rain forest in Brazil, who have had a better everyday life and can use resources in the rainforest more than before in a sustainable way. We have also visited the controllers, we have spoken to the authorities, and we have not least met our embassy in Brasilia, which follows up the project in a good and impressive way. I must admit that I am proud to see how our country's representatives take their mission very seriously and follow up in a very satisfactory way. So a great thank you to our ambassador and his staff with skilled employees in Brasilia. For someone like me, who is concerned with the plant and animal life of the earth, there is no doubt that we have an obligation to care for this diversity. We're going to harvest the resources, but it has to be done in a way that doesn't threaten and eradicate animals and plants. There should be a commitment that we can all agree on, regardless of whether we can differ on the cause of climate change. At the same time, we must be able to demand increased involvement from several countries and donors. This is not an obligation for Norway alone to bear financially. It is also one of the conclusions of the National Audit Office that so far our commitment has not triggered enough funding from other donors. With the report from the National Audit Office, with the Committee's suspension and with the clear response of the Council of State, I and the Progress Party believe that we have laid the basis for a better follow-up of this in the years to come. It's reassuring. At the same time, we have a commitment that the large financial resources we allocate on behalf of Norwegian taxpayers are used as best possible, as efficiently as possible and with clear results.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1815	The two main challenges facing the world on the environment are the threat of dangerous climate change and the violent loss of nature and plant and animal species. In a good way, Norway, through its extensive rainforesting effort, manages to contribute to both of these challenges. A very large part of the world's biodiversity is in the rainforest. There was thus a solid nature protection measure in Norway that helped to put in place in 2007 when the then Stoltenberg government promised up to 3 billion. kr annually for the conservation of rainforest. But it is also an essential measure to combat the threat of man-made climate change. If we are to be able to avoid the worst consequences, fossil energy consumption needs to be drastically reduced. But that alone is not enough; we also need to get control of the extensive deforestation that is taking place, especially in the world's rainforest. And that was not a small contribution Norway gave the climate negotiators at Bali in December 2007 when it announced the Norwegian rainforest production. It was a significant contribution, hoping to make progress in international climate negotiations. Unfortunately, it did not take place in the short term, but luckily Norway has continued this effort. It is incredibly important that we do so in the years to come, and that, as the Council of State has explained to the Committee, we take into account the criticism that has come from the Riksrevision to the point of being so far. But it must not make us stop this important bet. Then we have to work to ensure that several countries make a similar great contribution to what Norway is doing, because we need to be able to preserve the rainforest. For us, this is absolutely essential in the climate struggle. I hear the representative from the Progress Party say that it is not necessarily for them. It might have been nice to hear if the Progress Party now chooses or does not choose to lean on the compact majority of scientists who believe that man is changing the climate of the globe. We see that at least one of the representatives of the Progress Party in the Committee is very much in favour of this. So I'm going to get into one point in conclusion, and that's that in Norway's further rainforesting, Norway looks at this, as we do today, as an addition to the effort we make to cut our emissions here at home in Norway. This should not be a sleep cushion for us to take on the more sunny responsibility we have to cut our own emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1826	The Christian People's Party is pleased to support the Norwegian rainforest campaign. The National Audit Office’s report points to several important challenges related to Norway’s international climate and forest action. The rapporteur has given a good account of the Committee's opinions and conclusions, which I do not see as being necessary to repeat. But I'm going to focus on a few aspects of the Riksrevision report. The report raises the issue of the safeguard mechanisms as important principles for social and environmental considerations to be followed by developing countries in the implementation of Fear+. Security mechanisms are based on the fact that Redd+ can act both positively and negatively on conditions such as poverty reduction, the rights of indigenous peoples and the conservation of natural forests. These are aspects of which the Stortinget has on several occasions pointed to the importance of. It is therefore essential that Norway should give priority to monitoring compliance with the safeguard mechanisms and that action should be taken if they are not followed. Although it has been important to include security mechanisms in the Redd+ framework under the UN Convention on Climate Change and in agreements concluded by the Ministry of Climate Change and the Environment, efforts have been made to address, as we know, the Storting's assumptions regarding compliance with the security mechanisms. Some of the problems have been that many parties regard their follow-up as an internal issue. We know that in many countries the rights of indigenous peoples are under strong pressure. The hedging mechanisms shall help to ensure that Redd+ does not go at the expense of other considerations, such as: biodiversity and poverty reduction. These are important considerations and objectives in themselves. Retention of the hedging mechanisms has been considered as essential for achieving long-term emission reductions in Red+. On our committee tour, which several have already been involved, we were given insight into how some of these measures had helped to create a difference in the way the local population operates its own land. Families had a better everyday life because they had received training that had given them the opportunity to run the earth saying in a more sustainable way than before through funds taken from the Amazon Fund. And we saw examples of changes that had taken place over time with strong local anchoring and with lasting concrete results. There can be no doubt that an important success factor for this type of work requires good and lasting dialogue between the government and the indigenous people and the people who live close to the rainforest and depend on it. It is therefore necessary to set out clear requirements for the safeguard mechanisms, so that the funds allocated to the most affected local population are actually used to combat poverty, to preserve the rights of indigenous people and to preserve the natural forest. We must therefore expect a number of actions from the Norwegian side to be brought up in the future to ensure that we can be sure of the results achieved in this area as well. Finally, there is reason to be concerned about the fact that the Riksrevision points to the lack of follow-up of defaults related to the large payments made by Norway. It is necessary to establish good, clear procedures, so that default is taken seriously by having consequences for those behind it. Although this work is not always as simple – and we understand it – more work should be done to get routines in place that can better reveal that kind of relationship than today and ensure a good follow-up. It is critical that defaults are not followed up more clearly than has been the case up to now, and that there is a need to ensure a more active follow-up of the risk and use of the reactions of deviations and warnings of possible economic misstatements than is the case today. Here we expect a better follow-up in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1841	The climate and forest initiative – even after ten years – is new work. The Ministry of Climate and Environment is constantly striving to find the most effective measures to take care of the rainforest. The Ministry therefore appreciates being reviewed and getting professional input into how we can get even better. Thank you to the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, which has done a particularly thorough job on its position. The National Audit Service believes that the results of REDD+ are delayed and uncertain. It's hard to disagree with. Progress in climate and development in developing countries is booming. Most of this is beyond our control, even if we make important contributions. The Committee agrees, in part, with the findings of the National Audit Office. At the same time, it emphasises that several measures have had a particularly good impact. I am pleased that the Control and Constitutional Committee chose to travel to Brazil to look at the results of the Climate and Forest Initiative. The Committee itself has seen, and points to, the great contribution Brazil has now made to the world’s fight against climate change. In my reply to the Riksrevision, I refer to bets that are not covered by the Riksrevision's investigation. Indonesia has put in place impressive reforms. In 2017, these led to a dramatic reduction in the deforestation of carbon-rich peat bogs. The Energy and Environment Committee was recently set up on its journey. In Colombia, the government has declared that the forest border against the Amazon should be closed and launched a major offensive against illegal logging. The situation of indigenous peoples has improved in a number of places. Business has become an important partner in forest conservation. Our support for civil society has changed policy, strengthened the weak and weakened the strong and well-organised in a large number of countries and markets. None of this is mentioned in the National Audit Office's report. The strategy for the Climate and Forest Initiative has been set up to ensure sustainable results of efforts. An example of this is the central role of the initiative in getting REDD+ in as part of the Paris Agreement. Efforts to ensure transparency about the forest, and the fight for deforestation-free supply chains, are others. The Climate and Forest Initiative has contributed to a global revolution as regards the possibility of monitoring satellite forests. Authorities, academics and activists can today see what is happening in the forest, almost in real time. This makes it possible to put in place measures where the forest is being destroyed. In the 2019 budget, the government has proposed to strengthen this effort by 200 million. kr. The work of taking care of the forest must not go out on the people who live there, or lead to the destruction of nature elsewhere. Norway has been the world leader here. However, I take into account the concerns of the National Audit Office and the Committee that the Ministry does not have enough information about this. We are making a number of demands on our partners, and we are already assessing whether there is more we should do in this area. Although I have objections to the evidence base related to the criticism of the follow-up of risks in the management of the climate and forest initiative, this is what I take seriously. I would like to stress that the department follows up all the alerts we receive. We have zero tolerance for maladministration, and all cases discovered have consequences. We do not enter into any agreements without quality assurance of both partners and projects in advance. The Committee refers to the need for proper follow-up to the four main recommendations of the Riksrevision Report. I agree. The Committee stresses that they consider my response to the report to be satisfactory in this way, and I am pleased with that. The Committee believes that the rainforest rate was right and that it is important that we continue to do so. We have to work hard to get even more involved. The latest report from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change shows that efforts are only becoming more important. I will do my best to ensure that the climate and forest initiative effectively achieves its emission reduction and sustainable development objectives. In my answer to the National Audit Office, I describe the strategy to get to it. I am pleased that the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs is pleased with this as a guide for further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1860	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1876	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1885	The case concerns, as was said, Prop. 100 L for 2017-2018, changes in share law etc. – dissolution and liquidation, interim balance, etc., where the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries proposes changes to the share law. These changes are intended to reduce economic and administrative burdens on business. The proposals have a background in the investigation NOU 2016: 22, Share law for increased value creation. Some of the proposals in the investigation were assessed in Prop. 112 L for 2016-2017. The amendments to this proposition were implemented by the Amendment Act of 16 June 2017 No. 71. With a few exceptions, these came into force on 1 July 2017. In the proposition we are now considering, other proposals in the investigation have been evaluated. The government is reviewing company law to promote increased value creation. A key consideration is to adapt legislation to technological developments. The Ministry also recommends removing process or reporting requirements where the benefits do not compensate for the cost, changing the rules to make the management of companies easier, and making it easier to understand the requirements of the share law to companies and shareholders. The issues dealt with in the proposal concern the statements made by the founders and the Board of Directors, audit reports, dissolution and liquidation, balance sheets, requirements for the business community in the statutes and the performance of tasks assigned to the Executive Director of companies without the Executive Director. In addition, it is proposed to correct errors in six laws falling within the Ministry of Food and Fisheries. There is an overall committee behind the recommendation, with the exception of the repeal of point 2-2 of the first subparagraph. 2 of Law 13 June 1997 No. 44 on limited liability companies and the amendment to Section 3-1, first paragraph, No. 3 of Law No. 21 June 1985 No. 78 on the registration of undertakings. These changes are promoted by the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party. The minority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, promote their own proposal to amend the Law of 13 June 1997 No. 44 on limited liability companies, §8-2a, third paragraph, relating to interim balance sheets and extraordinary dividends. With regard to the changes in the interim balance-sheet proposition, the majority, in line with the government’s proposal, believe that these contribute to simplifications that will reduce the economic and administrative burdens on business while safeguarding the objective of providing tax authorities, creditors and other stakeholders with better access to information so that they can more effectively meet their interests, which is also one of the objectives of the proposition. The proposal by the minority, on the other hand, does not meet these criteria. As the majority understands the proposal, limited liability companies wishing to distribute extraordinary dividends may do so only if they have an auditor. This prevents many small companies from collecting such dividends. A number of companies have used the option of de-selecting audit, which was made possible for smaller companies in order to reduce the financial and administrative burden on these companies. These companies are currently able to distribute extraordinary dividends on the basis of a revised balance sheet. The proposal by the minority would deprive the companies that can do so today of this possibility. In practice, the proposal will mean a narrowing of current legislation. The majority agree that the Share Act § 2-2, first paragraph, No. 2 shall be repealed so that limited liability companies no longer need to indicate in the statutes the municipality in which the company is to have its registered office. However, the majority believe that this amendment should not include public limited-liability companies. This results in Section 2-2, first paragraph, No. 3 is not repealed and that the first paragraph of Section 3-1a of the Business Register Act no. 4 remain unchanged. The main purpose of the requirement that the business community be specified in the statutes is to enable shareholders, public authorities and others to come into contact with the company. This is done, however, by registering the address of the company’s registered office in the Business Register. There it is publicly available. Finally, I would recommend the setting of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1910	I would like to address the proposal of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. I refer you to the reason for that in the comments. Otherwise, I refer to the case spokesman's posts, which I fully support, except those points where he criticises the minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1917	The representative of Geir Pollestad has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1922	There's a positive thing about simplification. We know that business demand, and that was also important for the red-green government. It is also important that we strike a balance between simplification and control. That is why we are not voting in favour of the concrete proposal relating to interim balance sheets, as referred to by the rapporteur. We therefore propose that it is not possible to make provision for the payment of extraordinary dividends on the basis of an interim balance if the audit of the annual accounts has not been selected. We also believe that the indication of the business community should continue to be determined by the general meeting of the company. With that I have explained the position of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1931	There is broad cross-political consensus among the parties in the Stortinget that the aim is to simplify and facilitate laws, regulations and regulations so that the administrative burdens on industry do not become more resource-intensive than necessary. In the proposition we are dealing with today, the objective lies at the heart of the proposed changes in share law. The Government proposes to amend the rules on the winding-up and winding-up of limited liability companies, the revision of the balance sheets, the requirement to indicate the business community in the statutes and the operation of companies without the Executive Director. It is worth noting that a Joint Committee recognises that many of the proposed changes open up so that companies can spend less resources on reporting and purchasing administrative services. The Committee also notes that the amendments may result in an annual savings of approximately 50 million. kr for limited liability companies and that the simplifications are presumed to be particularly useful for new and small limited liability companies. However, at a few points, the batches separate layers in support of the proposals in the proposition. The Christian People's Party has chosen to support the government's proposals after having had an impact on an important compromise. I would therefore like briefly to do my best for our assessments on the points where the committee is divided and we are included in the majority. As regards the issue of interim balances as a basis for the payment of extraordinary dividends, the Christian People's Party, like the government parties, believes that exemptions should be made from the requirement to audit the interim balances of limited liability companies that have opted out of the audit of the annual accounts under the Share Act § 7-6. We believe it is sufficient to ensure the interests of creditors and others that there is an obligation for this group of limited liability companies to submit interim balances to the Accounting Register. The interim balance is then made publicly available, and we are pleased that this is being set as a prerequisite for the distribution of extraordinary dividends. The Christian People's Party has also chosen to support the government with regard to the proposal that a limited liability company no longer needs to indicate the municipality in which the company should have its registered office, in the statutes. There are three reasons why we believe that the change can be implemented: First, in any case, the address of the company’s registered office shall be recorded in the Business Register and thus made publicly available. Secondly, the general meeting shall still have the opportunity to review the decisions of the board to amend the business community. Thirdly, Section 3-1 of the first paragraph of the Business Register Act becomes No. 3 amended to establish that the address recorded by the company is to be in Norway. Finally, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, I would like to thank the government parties for putting in place an important compromise in terms of the amendment to the law that exempts a limited liability company from the obligation to indicate a commercial municipality. The Christian People's Party does not want this exemption to apply to public limited-liability companies, because the large listed companies that are wholly or partially owned by the State would then be affected by the amendment of the law. We in the Christian People's Party do not want undue uncertainty to arise around the state's exercise of ownership in the general assembly at this point. We are pleased that we heard about our vision. It was essential that we are today part of the majority behind the committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1954	I'm sorry I'm going to spend a little more time than the committee leader. The proposals for changes have the background in NOU 2016: 22 Share legislation for increased value creation. The mandate was to explore possible simplifications in share law and evaluate changes that entered into force in 2013. Some of the proposals in the investigation were assessed in Prop. 112 L, as the government presented in April 2017. The amendments were adopted unanimously and entered into force mainly on 1 July 2017. So now we're going to have further changes based on the same investigation. The proposals for amendments mainly concern the rules of the Shares Act and the General Shares Act on the dissolution and liquidation, the balance sheets, the requirements for the business community in the statutes and the performance of the duties of the Executive Director in companies without the Executive Director. It is very good that a Joint Nutrition Committee supports the majority of the amendments. As mentioned above, the annual savings are estimated at about 50 million. kr, but probably the potential is even greater. We're going to continue to reduce business costs further, and it's good that there's consensus about that goal. The amendments simplify the resolution and winding-up rules. For limited liability companies where annual accounts are not audited, it is proposed to remove the requirements to revise the liquidation balance sheet and other documents that the companies are required to prepare before liquidation. The government also proposes changes to the balance sheet use. An interim balance sheet is a balance sheet drawn up at a point in time other than the annual accounts but follows the same requirements. It may be used as a basis for the distribution of an exceptional dividend and other arrangements throughout the year. Today, the interim balance sheet is required to be audited, including for limited liability companies which have decided not to revise the company's annual accounts. That is what we have proposed to amend, so that these companies do not have to revise the interim balances of such dispositions – in other words, that they follow the same rules as for annual accounts. A minority in the Business Committee would like to require that public limited liability companies without an auditor are not able to distribute extraordinary dividends. This would mean a reduction for small limited liability companies compared to today's rules, and I do not agree with that. We also propose to abolish the requirement in the Shares Act and the General Shares Act that the business community of the companies must be specified in the statutes. A Joint Liaison Committee wishes to maintain this requirement for public limited-liability companies, while a majority of the Liaison Committee supports the proposal to lift the requirement for limited-liability companies. I stress that if the board decides to change the business community as a result of the amendment of the law, the general meeting may review the decision of the board. With this proposition, the government has proposed the amendments for which the Swedish Stock Corporation's investigation provided sufficient grounds.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1977	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1989	Then it seems that the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e1998	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Kirsti Leirtrø on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 2 and 3, from Kirsti Leirtrø on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party proposal No 4, from Kirsti Leirtrø on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 5, from Kirsti Leirtrø on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 6, by Arne Nävra on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to initiate a renegotiation of the Urban Environment Package for the North-Jearth, where the aim is to increase the bet on collective bicycles and corridors, including ensuring that the planned bus route is converted into the urban runway.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e2033	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for an assessment of alternative financing arrangements for possible increases in the cost of highways and bicycle trunk roads in urban packages, even where the full burden is not financed by tolls.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e2052	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the government to ensure that the state covers 70 pst. of the investment costs of the «Busway» in the Urban Environment Package for the North-Jear.’» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e2069	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to clarify which other processes related to the North-Jear Urban Environment Package may require treatment in Stortinget.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e2093	The result is that 59 representatives voted against the proposal and 36 voted in favour. That is why the proposal has been rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e2098	I see that there are the wrong number of representatives from the Workers' Party during voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e2103	Number is wrong? You're going to throw out three? – Then we can vote with the right number of representatives. There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to take the initiative to renegotiate the Urban Environment Package for Nord-Jären and to request that the renegotiation be concluded by the end of 2018/2019. In the renegotiations, a new model of devices is to be found at the drug-free rate, which will be less burdensome for the population. The impact of the alcohol duty on residents and businesses needs to be assessed more thoroughly and appropriate remedial measures must be established.’ The Greens and Reds have announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e2122	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative to test new technology/road pricing on the North-Jear.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e2146	Behind it is the right, the right, the left, and the right. The Christian People's Party has announced support for the vote. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e2166	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Kirsti Leirtrø on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Siv Mossleth on behalf of the Center Party Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to include in its work on a comprehensive hydrogen strategy a pilot project for the use of fuel cell trains with zero-emission hydrogen on at least one of the non-electricated routes in Norway — for the purpose of operating on one of the lines by 1 January 2020’.» Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. Behind it is the right, the right, the left, and the right. The Christian People's Party has announced support for the vote. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e2205	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for an assessment of the start-up of a small scale hydrogen train test to test whether the technology can be scaled up to and applied to the long distances currently using diesel propulsion.’ All parties have indicated their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e2224	During the debate Arne Nävra put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the immediate inclusion of new, emission-free and autonomous ferries as an independent alternative when planning Fergefree E39, in line with tunnels and bridges. Relevant factors for the choice of solution for the future E39 should include environmental considerations, price, capacity, flexibility and socio-economic benefits.’» Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. Behind the setting are the Working Party, Right, Advance Party, Center Party and Left. The Christian People's Party has announced support for the vote. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e2258	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e2278	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e2341	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e2351	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e2360	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e2377	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e2394	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e2412	During the debate, Mr Pollestad put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law 13 June 1997 No 44 in the case of limited liability companies, the third paragraph of Section 8-2(a) shall be replaced by the following: The decision on extraordinary dividends is taken by the general meeting. [[3]] The decision after the first sentence may only be taken if the company has registered an auditor in the Business Register. The first paragraph of Section 8-2 shall apply mutatis mutandis.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e3290	It is added to Section 2-2, first paragraph, No. 2 and III § 3-1, first paragraph, No. 3rd@item: inlistbox The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e3305	The remainder of I and III, as well as the other Roman numerals and all paragraphs are added.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e3315	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e3325	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-29.ana.ud346e3371	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
