ParlaMint-NO_2018-09-28.ana.ud415e30	Two permit applications are available: by the Group of the European People's Party on Friday 28 September to take part in the 73rd ordinary General Assembly of the United Nations in New York by the Christian People's Party on the sick leave of the representative of the Torhild Bransdal Friday 28 September On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: Per Sverre Kvinlaug and Tove Welle Haugland
ParlaMint-NO_2018-09-28.ana.ud415e66	Per Sverre Kvinlaug and Tove Welle Haugland are present and will take the seat. From the Prime Minister's office there are two letters to Stortinget. The first letter, dated 13 August 2018, reads: « Change in the composition of the Government and change among the State Secretaries State Council was held at Oslo Castle on 13 August 2018 at 2.30 p.m. 1300 under the direction of His Majesty the King. The following decision was adopted: Government council Per Sandberg is dismissed in mercy. Society and media manager Harald Tom Nesvik is appointed State Council and takes over the management of fisheries matters in the Ministry of Food and Fisheries. State Secretary Roy Angelvik is dismissed as Secretary of State in 50 p.m. post of Per Sandberg State Council and is re-appointed Secretary of State in 50 p.m. position of State Council Harald Tom Nesvik in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries. State Secretary Roy Angelvik continues in 50 pst. position of Council of State Torbjørn Røe Isaksen in Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries State Secretary Veronica Isabel Pedersen is hereby dismissed as Secretary of State for Per Sandberg and is hereby re-appointed Secretary of State for the Council of State Harald Tom Nesvik, Ministry of Industry and Fisheries. All the amendments made above shall take effect on 13 August 2018 at the latest. 1500.’» The second letter, dated 31 August 2018, reads: « Change in the composition of the Government and change among the State Secretaries State Council was held at Oslo Castle on 31 August 2018 at 2.30 p.m. 1100 under the direction of His Majesty the King. The following decision was adopted: Government councillor Ketil Solvik-Olsen is pardoned. Government councillor Terje Søviknes is pardoned. Councillor Jon Georg Dale takes over the board of the Ministry of Transport. Mr Bård André Hoksrud is appointed Minister of State and takes over from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. Parliamentary representative Kjell-Børge Freiberg is appointed to the Council of State and takes over from the Ministry of Oil and Energy. State Secretarys Anders Bjørnsen Werp, Tommy Skjervold and Brage Baklien are dismissed as State Secretary for the State Council of Ketil Solvik-Olsen and are re-appointed State Secretary for the State Council of Jon Georg Dale in the Ministry of Transport. State Secretary Hanne Maren Blåfjelldal is dismissed as Secretary of State for the Council of State Jon Georg Dale and is re-appointed State Secretary for the Council of State Brother André Hoksrud in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. State Secretary Ingvil Smines Tybring-Gjedde is dismissed as Secretary of State for Council Terje Søviknes and is re-appointed State Secretary for Council of State Kjell-Børge Freiberg in the Ministry of Oil and Energy. State Secretary Toril Charlotte Ulleberg Reynolds is dismissed as Secretary of State for the Government of Tor Mikkel Wara and is re-appointed State Secretary for the Council of State Kjell-Børge Freiberg in the Ministry of Oil and Energy. State Secretary Roy Angelvik is dismissed as Secretary of State for the Council of State Torbjørn Røe Isaksen and continues as Secretary of State for 100 p.m. position of State Council Harald Tom Nesvik in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries. State Secretary Veronica Isabel Pedersen is hereby dismissed as Secretary of State for the State of Harald Tom Nesvik, Ministry of Industry and Fisheries. Group leader Anne Bramo is constituted as State Secretary to Åse Michaelsen of the Ministry of Health and Welfare. All the amendments made above shall take effect on 31 August 2018 at the latest. 1400.’» The President will propose that the letters referred to be annexed to the Minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first alternate for Nordland and Telemark counties respectively, Dagfinn Henrik Olsen and Stine Margrethe Knutsdatter Olsen, have taken the seat of representatives of the time Kjell-Børge Freiberg and Bård Hoksrud are members of the government. Councillor Kjell-Børge Freiberg will convey 18 royal propositions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-09-28.ana.ud415e165	A new alternate shall be elected to the Electoral Committee, and the President shall ask for proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-09-28.ana.ud415e170	I suggest Solveig Horne.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-09-28.ana.ud415e175	Mr. Solvency Horne has been proposed as an alternate member of the electoral committee. Other proposals are not available, and the President assumes that they can be voted in the usual way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-09-28.ana.ud415e427	Then we have come to the end of the 162nd big thing – the first big deal in the current parliamentary term. The President would like to say a few words about the business of the session that is now behind it. The representatives of Storting have promoted 248 representatives. It's a record. 2370 written questions have been submitted. That's a record, too. The size of this session has adopted 429 requests. It also surpasses all previous sessions. I think we have coverage to say that it's 162. Storing has been an active magnification. Another number that testifies to this is the total of 412 settings given during the session. There's a high number for a first session in a parliamentary term. On 8 May this year, the Constitution was amended when Stortinget adopted a new wording on the immunity of the King in Section 5. Some linguistic adjustments were also adopted in some sections of the Constitution in neo-Norwegian. The size has dealt with 149 propositions from the government this session. Key issues that can be mentioned are the EU’s third energy market package, new security laws and new municipal law. The government has promoted 19 messages and made 16 presentations for the Storting. Finally, the President would like to thank everyone who has been involved in Storting's activities in the year that went on. I hereby declare the negotiations in the 162nd anniversary of the end. At the same time, the President shall ask the representatives to sign the minutes submitted.
