ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e57	From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 17 January 2018: ‘Amendments by Governments and State Secretaries State Council was held at Oslo Castle on 17 January 2018 at 2.30 p.m. 1400 under the direction of His Majesty the King. The following decision was adopted: The councils of Vidar Helgesen, Solveig Horne, Per-Willy Trudvang Amundsen and Marit Berger Røsland are cast off in mercy. Representative Trine Skei Grande is appointed to the Council of State and takes over the board of the Ministry of Culture. State Council Jan Tore Sanner is taking over the board of the Ministry of Knowledge, except for the matters of the Council of State Iselin Nybø. In addition, he takes over the management of the integration area of the Ministry of Justice and Defence and responsibility for the IMFI. Sanner assumes responsibility for coordinating Nordic cooperation issues as Norway's representative in the Nordic Council of Ministers. Councillor Monica Mæland takes over from the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. State Council Sylvi Listhaug shall take over the Administrative Board of the Ministry of Justice and Security, except the Management Board of the Integration Area. Government Council Torbjørn Røe Isaksen takes over the board of the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries, except for the matters of Per Sandberg State Council. Councillor Linda Cathrine Hofstad Helleland takes over from the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality. State Council Jon Georg Dale assumes responsibility for the management of harvested game resources, including the management of the parts of the Department of Nature Management in the Ministry of Climate and Environment which are responsible for this management. Cyber Coordinator Åse Michaelsen is appointed to the Council of State and takes over the Management of the Old People's and Public Health Area of the Ministry of Health and Welfare. Mr Stortingsretten Ola Elvestuen is appointed to the Council of State and takes over from the Ministry of Climate and Environment. In addition, he assumes responsibility for the Enova SF, including the management of the parts of the Energy and Water Resource Department of the Oil and Energy Ministry that maintain the follow-up to the ownership of the Enova SF. Deputy Prime Minister Nikolai Eivindsson Astrup is appointed as Council of State and takes over the Board of Directors of Development in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Astrup is authorised to exercise the specific functions of international law conferred on the Minister of Foreign Affairs, including the signature of documents of international law and the drawing up of signature mandates, in the absence of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Advocate Iselin Nybø is appointed to the Council of State and takes over the Board of Directors for Research and Higher Education in the Ministry of Knowledge. State Secretary Marianne Eikvåg Groth is pardoned as Secretary of State for Prime Minister Erna Solberg and is re-appointed State Secretary for State Council Siv Jensen in the Ministry of Finance. Political adviser Audun Rødningsby is appointed State Secretary for Prime Minister Erna Solberg. State Secretary Kristin Holm Jensen is hereby dismissed as Secretary of State of the Council of State Jan Tore Sanner in the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation and is hereby re-appointed Secretary of State for Jan Tore Sanner in the Ministry of Knowledge. State Secretary Bjørn Haugstad is pardoned as State Secretary to the State Council Torbjørn Røe Isaksen and is re-appointed State Secretary to the State Council of Jan Tore Sanner in the Ministry of Knowledge until 22 February 2018. State Secretary Brage Baklien is pardoned as State Secretary of the State Council Siv Jensen in the Ministry of Finance and is re-appointed State Secretary of the State Council Ketil Solvik-Olsen in the Ministry of Transport. State Secretary Paul Chaffey is pardoned as Secretary of State of the Council of State Jan Tore Sanner and is re-appointed Secretary of State of the Council of State Monica Mæland in the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. Secretary of State Anne Karin Olli is pardoned as Secretary of State for the Council of State Jan Tore Sanner and is re-appointed Secretary of State for the Council of State Monica Mæland in the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. Secretary of State Lars Jacob Hiim is pardoned as Secretary of State for Monica Mæland of the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries and is re-appointed Secretary of State for the Council of State Monica Mæland of the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. State Secretary Thor Kleppen Sättem is pardoned as Secretary of State for Per-Willy Trudvang Amundsen and is re-appointed State Secretary for State Council Sylvi Listhaug in the Ministry of Justice and Defence. State Secretary Knut Morten Johansen is pardoned as Secretary of State for the State of Ketil Solvik-Olsen and is re-appointed State Secretary for the State Council of Sylvi Listhaug in the Ministry of Justice and Defence. State Secretary Toril Charlotte Ulleberg Reynolds is pardoned as Secretary of State for Per-Willy Trudvang Amundsen and is re-appointed State Secretary for State Council Sylvi Listhaug in the Ministry of Justice and Defence. Reynolds has a maternity leave of 9 September 2018. State Secretary Magnus Thue is pardoned as Secretary of State of the Minister of Knowledge Torbjørn Røe Isaksen and is re-appointed Secretary of State of Torbjørn Røe Isaksen in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries. State Secretary Roy Angelvik is pardoned as State Secretary for Per Sandberg and is re-appointed as State Secretary in 50 per cent position for Per Sandberg State Council and 50 per cent position for Torbjørn Røe Isaksen in the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries. State Secretary Line Miriam Sandberg is appointed Secretary of State Bent Höie of the Ministry of Health and Welfare and is re-appointed Secretary of State of the Council of State Åse Michaelsen of the Ministry of Health and Welfare. State Secretary Jens Frølich Holte is hereby dismissed as Secretary of State for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Marit Berger Røsland and is hereby re-appointed Secretary of State for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Nikolai Eivindssøn Astrup. State Secretarys Tore Vamraak, Björn Laabak, Bård Folke Fredriksen, Lars Andreas Lunde, Dilek Ayhan, Kai-Morten Dörning, Anette Carnarius Elseth, Vidar Brain-Karlsen and Fabian Stang are cast off in grace. Political adviser Rikke Höistad Sjøberg is appointed State Secretary for State Council Jan Tore Sanner in the Ministry of Knowledge from 19 February 2018. [[on maternity leave]] Political Senior Advisor Geir Olsen is appointed State Secretary for State Council Siv Jensen in the Ministry of Finance. Secretary of State Linda Cathrine Hofstad Helleland, Ministry of Children and Gender Equality. Advocate General Sveinung Rotevatn is hereby appointed State Secretary for State Council Sylvi Listhaug in the Ministry of Justice and Defence. Political adviser Aase Marthe Horrigmo is appointed State Secretary to the Council of State Monica Mæland in the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. The Head of the Press, Jan-Christian Kolstø, is appointed State Secretary to the Council of State, Trine Skei Grande, Ministry of Culture. Director Atle Hamar is appointed State Secretary for State Council Ola Elvestuen in the Ministry of Climate and Environment. Mr Atle Simonsen is appointed State Secretary to the Council of State, Jan Tore Sanner, Ministry of Knowledge. Senior Adviser Rebekka Borsch is appointed State Secretary for State Council Iselin Nybø in the Ministry of Knowledge. Project manager Daniel Bjarmann-Simonsen is appointed State Secretary for State Council Torbjørn Røe Isaksen in the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries. All the amendments made above shall take effect on 17 January 2018 at the latest. 1600, unless specifically mentioned otherwise.» The President proposed that the referenced letter be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. National Council changes entail the following changes in the composition of the Storting: The former members of the government, Solvency Horne and Per-Willy Amundsen, have taken the seat of representatives. The first and second alternates of Oslo, Astrid Nøkleby Heiberg, Guri Melby and Grunde Almeland respectively have taken the seat of representatives of the time Nikolai Astrup, Trine Skei Grande and Ola Elvestuen are members of the government. A number of permit applications are available: from representatives Carl-Erik Grimstad, Øystein Langholm Hansen, Heidi Nordby Lunde, Åsunn Lyngedal, Ingarill Olsen, Vetle Wang Solheim and Tore Storehaug on leave from 29 January to 2 February and from the representative Nicholas Wilkinson on leave from Monday 29 January to 30 January at the latest. 13 to 2 February – all to participate in the study tour of representatives to Brussels from the meeting of the alternate of Oslo, Per Espen Stoknes, application is made for an exemption from meeting in Stortinget from 29 January to 2 February, under the leave of the representative of Une Bastholm, to take part in the study trip of representatives to Brussels. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Sheida Sangtarash 29 January and 30 January at 13 to 2 February For Finnmark County: Steinar Karlstrøm 30 January-1. February For More and Romesdal counties: Anders Riise 30 January-1. February For the county of Nordland: Kjell-Idar Juvik 30 January-1. February For Oslo: Mats Kirkebirkeland 30 January-1. ==References====External links== February For Rogaland County: Julia Wong 30 January-1. February For Sogn and Fjordane counties: Trude Brosvik 30 January–2. February For the Westfold province: Kari-Lise Rørvik 29 January–2. February The representative, Anette Trettebergstuen, will present two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e272	On behalf of the representative, Mr Jørgen Bekkevold, I would like to make a representative proposal on a more responsible gambling policy. Then, on behalf of the representatives of Kari Henriksen, Masud Gharahkhani, Lene Vågslid, Jan Bøhler, Maria-Karine Aasen-Svensrud and myself, I would like to make a proposal to include gender identity and gender expression in the criminal law provisions on discrimination and hate crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e279	The representative, Freddy André Øvstegård, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e284	I am pleased to present a proposal for a representative on behalf of the representatives Petter Eide, Karin Andersen and myself for scrutiny and measures to prevent double roles in public child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e289	The representative, Lars Haltbrecken, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e294	On behalf of Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes, Nicholas Wilkinson, Freddy André Øvstegård, Gina Barstad, Arne Nävra and myself – and I kept saying on behalf of the fish in Førdefjord and Repparfjord – I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative on the new treatment of Nordic Mining's mining project in Naustdal and Nussir's mining project in Kvalsund.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e299	The representative, Tore Hagebakken, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e304	On behalf of the representatives of Ingvild Kjerkol, Tuva Moflag, Tellef Inge Mørland, Siv Henriette Jacobsen and myself, I will present a proposal for a representative on low-threshold mental health care in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e310	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 1, 2 and 3 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e352	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to each party group and 10 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e361	First: Congratulations to Sylvi Listhaug as new Minister of Justice, Preparedness and Immigration. We look forward to good cooperation. In the autumn, we have spent a lot of time discussing the treatment of lone minor asylum seekers. We have discussed child-care assessments, vulnerability criteria and assessments of reasonableness in the event of internal migration. Temporary residence is also a topic in the debates that have engaged many. There is a good deal of debate on these issues. Asylum seekers from Afghanistan have also received a lot of attention, and the proposers in the two representative proposals are not only critical of the handling of these issues by foreign agencies and the security situation in Afghanistan – as I understand it, they do not really have confidence in how the Foreign Affairs Department and the Directorate of Foreign Affairs assess this. I'll come back to it. We're dealing with two things today. It is Document 8:64 LS for 2017-2018, to introduce reasonable conditions for internal migration into the Foreign Affairs Act and to ensure effective child-care assessments, and it is Document 8:47 S for 2017-2018, which deals with temporary stoppages in the transport of asylum seekers to Afghanistan until an independent expert committee has carried out an open assessment of legislation and practices in the cases. In these matters, we have clear political dividing lines. SV wants to liberalise current policies. The right-hand side is critical to it. We also perceive that there is a rematch from SV, as they proposed in May 2017 to reintroduce the reasonableness requirement for internal flight. We believe that liberalisation will lead to more people staying, but perhaps the most important thing is that this is a pull factor for Europe and Norway. At present, borders are now closed in Europe, but fluctuations are changing rapidly. It's too much money to earn on them as refugees or will migrate, that human smugglers don't stop this activity. Still, adults and children spend time on hazardous journeys. It is important not to call into question the principle of individual treatment, including the assessment of the countries to which it is appropriate to return asylum seekers. It shall not be subject to political intervention. Section 28 of the Foreign Affairs Act confirms that when assessing whether the applicant is a child, consideration should be given. Furthermore, Section 29 of the Act, which defines the principle of persecution, clarifies that persecution, among other things. can take the form of actions specifically aimed at gender – that is to say women – and/or children. The Foreign Affairs Directorate and the Foreign Affairs Department carry out child-sensitive assessments in the treatment of children’s asylum applications. The best interests of the child shall also be of fundamental importance when considering the granting of a residence permit under § 38 of the Act because of the existence of strong human interests or a particular connection with the Reich. When it comes to making assessments of the child’s best interests and justifications in decisions visible, this shall also be taken into account. It is also confirmed in the foreign regulation. The right is behind the majority proposal, which reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that a thorough, comprehensive and individual assessment of the child’s best in each asylum case is made and that these assessments are made visible and justified by decisions as required by the Children’s Convention.’; We believe it is current practice, and that it actually opens doors. With regard to the situation in Afghanistan, the majority of the Committee, which is not a part of it, shows that both UDI and UNE assess the situation in Afghanistan on an ongoing basis and monitor developments closely, and that it is appropriate to send back persons who have been refused their asylum application.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e385	I'll try to mention these three settings in turn and in order, as well as possible. The influx in the extent of Norway’s experience in 2015 puts society to the test, not least in terms of the sustainability of the welfare model. It is necessary to regulate immigration to Norway. Conflicts, persecution and uncertainty for the future are contributing to people travelling to Europe, but also the possibility of work and prospects for a better life can be behind such a journey. When UDI and UNE deal with asylum cases, assessments shall be based on factual information provided by Landinfo. Most Landinfo reports — as well as their source and information analysis guidelines — as a result of the review are publicly available, so that everyone can see how they work. It's useful and good. UDI and UNE report that they are continuously assessing the situation in Afghanistan and follow developments closely, and that by week 44 in 2017, the UDI reviewed whether it was appropriate to send back persons who have been refused their asylum application. UDI considered that there was no basis for changing practices. In its response to the Municipal and Administrative Committee in letter of 23 November 2017, the Council of State informs that there is no basis for saying that Norwegian practices are significantly more stringent than those of other European countries and that no other country considers that the general security situation in Afghanistan, including Kabul, implies that everyone from there has a need for protection. In 2016, the EU initiated a policy framework agreement to provide the basis for returns to Afghanistan. The reason for this was the large arrivals of Afghan asylum seekers in Europe in 2015, combined with the major challenges of the Member States with returns to the same country, i.e. Afghanistan. Such an agreement was signed on 2 October 2016. Germany, Sweden and Finland negotiated an agreement with Afghanistan in parallel with the EU and signed agreements on the following days. While it has previously been considered that the general management control constitutes an effective and adequate supervision of forced return operations carried out following a return decision, it has now become clear that Norway is to have a national system of forced return monitoring. I see that there have been different opinions about it. We believe that it is good and necessary to put this in place. The Workers' Party does not support the proposal for an expert committee to carry out an assessment of legislation and practices in return for Afghanistan. We have had this debate regularly since the autumn of 2017, most recently in connection with the statement by the Minister for Immigration and Integration and the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the security situation in Afghanistan on 8 November 2017. Although the return situation itself may vary between countries, the basic rules and procedures for returning to all countries are the same, and it would be unfortunate to have a separate sample to evaluate the practices and legislation of Afghanistan in particular. Then we show that there is agreement on the main lines in order to achieve an effective return policy. This applies, inter alia, to: the agreement on asylum in 2015. All parties agreed here, with the exception of the SV and the Environmental Party of the Greens, to give priority to the rapid return of persons who have been refused their application. Furthermore, in the next referral, a unanimous committee points out that the limited residence permit granted to lone minors between 16 and 18 years of age is granted to those who have no other reason for their stay than their lack of adequate care on return. Furthermore, a unanimous committee notes that there is no requirement for international protection if adequate protection is possible in an area of the country from which the foreigner fled. This applies to both adult and minor asylum seekers. The Committee further points out that the condition for being able to refer someone to internal flight is that the applicant may be given ‘effective protection’ in this area. This means that the area must be safe and accessible to the foreigner. Then, as part of the majority of the Committee, the Labour Party refers to the proposals on vulnerability criteria adopted at Stortinget on 14 November 2017. I do not repeat the wording of the decisions, as it is dryly known and available, but would stress quite clearly that it is the government's responsibility to ensure that return of asylum seekers with rejection takes place in a way that is in line with Norway's international obligations. In the last opinion, a joint committee also refers to the decisions taken on 14 November 2017, which concerned the four proposals of the Workers' Party on lone minor asylum seekers from Afghanistan. The foreign regulation § 17-1a states – as it says – that, in matters relating to children, it should, among other things. identify in the decision what assessments have been made of the child’s situation, including how the best interests of the child have been assessed. As is well known, NOAS has reviewed a number of decisions attached to children where it appears that no assessment of the best interests of the child has been made — or that at least no decision is taken. The working party considers it important to ensure that the assessments relating to the best interests of the child and their situation are presented in the decisions. The Labour Party, together with a majority of the Committee, therefore supports this proposal for a decision: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that a thorough, comprehensive and individual assessment of the child’s best in each asylum case is made and that these assessments are made visible and justified by decisions as required by the Children’s Convention.’; As I said, we refer to the decisions taken on 14 November in Stortinget. In addition to this, the vote of the Labour Party appears in the settings.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e420	First, I too would like to congratulate the Council of State, Listhaug, on new roles. We're looking forward to that. Today, we are once again in Stortinget and are going to debate suggestions for decoration in the field of asylum. It is actually a little sad that we spend so much time discussing opposition proposals that are essentially about whether we should allow more people without a real need for protection to stay in Norway for a long time. We should spend time on other things. We should discuss more how we can help refugees where they have the worst, and where it helps the most, instead we use all the resources and time to discuss how groundless refugees will become more likely to stay in Norway. The proposals we are debating today have been discussed a great many times before, and we also know the outcome. Decisions taken today will have no practical significance for further consideration of matters, as current practice, existing legislation, which is therefore already in the law, will be adopted. It can also be admitted that there is always room for improvement in general government. I think everyone can agree with that, and if we can point to some points that can provide better treatment and clearer guidelines, no one is against it. In the case of reasonableness conditions, nothing new will be adopted. This has also been discussed many times before, and it is important to stress from the Progress Party that it is not unreasonable to refer to internal refugees even if the reasonableness condition was removed as it stood. In the treatment of asylum applications, it is always the case that if you do not receive the application, there is an assessment of whether there are other factors that suggest that you should be allowed to stay in Norway, i.e. vulnerability criteria. If you are particularly vulnerable or in a situation where you should not return or stay in Norway, you will get it today. That is why it is a long way to try to open doors to promote these proposals. Nor do there exist any international agreements or obligations that require us to have a reasonable legal condition, as it were. However, the reasonableness condition has been safeguarded by other guidelines that are followed. If, as mentioned earlier, you can get protection in your home country, perhaps in another area, you do not actually have the right to protection in Norway. It is a pleasure to hear that the Labour Party has also taken that fact inward, and that we can start discussing more relevant issues and not whether to stay in Norway even if you do not have a right to do so. Vulnerability criteria, on which concrete proposals are now being made, have been adopted by the Stortinget. I am sure that the Council of State will explain in its statement how these will be dealt with further. Vulnerability criteria, as mentioned above, are also not new. You get a thorough, comprehensive assessment of your case already today, but there are now new guidelines in that field as well. What is being adopted today is that a child's best assessment is to be carried out and made visible in a decision. Several times earlier in the debate, a report by the NOAS, the Red Child and the Joint Alliance has gone through a range of issues and concluded that children’s best judgements are not being made. It is very important to note, and as the NOAS, the Fear Children and the Joint Alliance themselves pointed out when they presented the report, the issues they have presented are not a representative selection of issues. There are matters that have been complained about for some reason. It is probably possible that these matters have been made wrong, even in terms of the child's best assessment. In all likelihood, the formal mistakes have been made, but it is not like these cases represent all other cases, for these are complaints. Many of them have also been corrected. Child-best assessments are being carried out today, and it will not change anything that we are adopting a new proposal on this today. Proposals have also been made to assess the age of the applicant at the time of arrival. This could lead to a rather unfortunate practice by perhaps having to consider applications based on the age of the applicant himself at the time of arrival. In a lot of cases, there's new information, and research is being done to find out what's the fact. If new information is not to be taken into account at the time of the decision, it will open up to a rather unfair treatment of asylum applications, which I believe the Stortinget really does not want. SV also proposes an immediate stop of all returns to Afghanistan. It's not just a stop to forced returns. It's the stop of all returns. Then I would like to remind you that the UN Refugees' Organisation, which is returning to Afghanistan, says that more than 21,000 returns to Afghanistan from Europe have been made and that they have not registered a single safety challenge in any of these 21,000 returns. On the contrary, they say that it is the economic situation and opportunities for work that are demanding for asylum seekers who are being returned, not security. Then I think we should listen to those who are doing these things, and not to activists in Norway who later to have quite different interests from what the professionals have observed and bring out the facts. At least I choose to listen to those who are closest to the facts and can present the right page. SV has also called for an independent expert committee to be set up. If we are to conduct asylum policy properly, we need to make ongoing assessments of how, for example, we need to do so. the safety situation is in Afghanistan. Setting up an expert committee to work in a short-term time perspective will allow them to draw conclusions from how the situation was right there and then. I am afraid that will weaken legal certainty and the security situation of asylum seekers. If we are going to say in a short-term perspective how something should be done, one month after an expert committee has presented its report, the situation may have been completely different. There are quite other criteria that should be taken into account for the acceptance or rejection of an application. Then the expert committee is Landinfo, UDI and UNE. They're the ones who get the information, but they're not just doing it at a given time, they're doing it on the go. They change the practice when there is a basis for it, and it would be a major impairment for the institution of asylum and a weakening of the security of asylum seekers if we set up an expert committee that does not have the same competence as Landinfo, UDI and UNE, but that would replace them and override them in any way. At least we in the Progress Party would strongly advise against that. I also hope that the parties relate to the comments and do not accept any further proposals that have been made in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e445	The matters we are dealing with today coincide mainly with the matters we had for urgent consideration in Stortinget on 14 November. In that treatment, we adopted the introduction of vulnerability criteria to be used when returning to Afghanistan by 18-year-olds who previously had the status of single minors. We have not received back the government's follow-up on how the vulnerability criteria adopted by Stortinget are to be followed up in the case of the so-called October children. I expect that to happen soon. After all, it has been over two months since the decisions were taken. SV did not receive support for his proposal to stop all the assistant return and forced return when we discussed the matter on 14 November, and they do not get it today either. The proposal to set up an independent expert committee is also not accepted. The central party sees that there may be a need for policy adjustments on the basis of which the government returns to Afghanistan. However, we believe that this should not mean that Norway, as the only country, should put a full stop to all returns. It will send a wrong signal and could have consequences that we do not understand. We supported the proposals of the Workers' Party, which provide clearer premise as to what should be the basis for implementing forced returns. The majority decision of 14 November gave the Government new leadership for the implementation of the forced return. We did it through. Firstly, to ask the government to repeal the instructions on which 18-year-olds could be referred to internal refugees. Secondly, by asking for an assessment of whether the youth referred to internally have networks or caregivers, Thirdly, by re-assessment of all cases by decision of 1 October 2016 concerning single minors referred to in the internal flight. Fourthly, by failing to put an end to cases by decision of 1 October 2016 until the cases have been re-examined These vulnerability criteria, which shall be used before reference to internal migration, do not follow up the ambitions of the proposers for halting all returns. However, the proposals are a clear signal that government practice does not have the support of the Storting and that changes should be made to the basis to refer to young people who, after years of temporary residence, are to be expelled because they are 18 years old. Proposalers are asking for agreement to ask the government to start immediately the establishment of independent and effective supervision of forced returns of asylum seekers under the EU Return Directive. In its letter to the Committee, the Government acknowledged that Norway has not complied with the return directive’s directive on an effective system for the supervision of forced returns by third-country nationals. This is now corrected by the government saying that it has decided that the Trandum Supervisory Board should be entrusted with this task. It is now working on how this should be followed up. For the time being, the aim is to implement a pilot scheme during the first six months of 2018. The Central Party considers that it is important that Norway comply with the EU Return Directive and actively supervise those who are being forced to return. We are therefore in favour of supervision in accordance with the requirements we have received, but stress that if the task is to be added to the Trandum Supervisory Board, the mandate of the Council needs to be amended and they need to be given sufficient resources and mandates to perform the task properly. Today, we are also discussing proposals from representatives from the SV to reintroduce reasonable conditions for internal migration into the Foreign Affairs Act and to ensure real child-care assessments. Proposals suggest that the use of temporary residence permits for lone minor asylum seekers has increased sharply in Norway. The proposers believe that the reason for this increase is that in 2016, the UDI changed the safety assessments for Afghanistan so that far more areas were considered safe. The second reason is that the reasonableness condition of the IRR was removed as part of the restrictions in the Foreign Affairs Act in 2016. Instructions and changes in regulations given to the administration of the foreign currency have been designed for restrictions which allow far fewer single minor asylum seekers to stay but are granted a temporary residence permit. In one of the proposals put forward, the government is asked to make a thorough, comprehensive and individual assessment of the child’s best in each asylum case and to make these assessments visible and justified in the decisions taken. This is provided for in the Children's Convention. It should have been obvious that it was being followed up, but unfortunately the government has not done its job in this area. That is why the majority sees need to clarify this through a decision. The centre party is part of the majority of the committee that believes that there must be an increase in the assessment of the best interests of the child. We refer to the review that NOAS has made of a number of decisions relating to children. It appears that decisions do not indicate whether assessments of the best interests of children have been made. The Party therefore participates in a proposal asking the Government to ensure that a thorough, comprehensive and individual assessment of the child’s best in each asylum case is made and that these assessments are made visible and justified in the decision, as required by the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The petitions of the proposers in proposal No. 2 to the Inn. 68 S for 2017-2018 that the government amends the foreign regulation so that it is the age of the lone minor asylum seeker at the time of arrival that is essential for the assessment of residence in line with the foreign regulations § 8-8. In its reply to the Committee, the Council of State states that this is an unnecessary proposal because there is a very short time lag between the arrival and the date of adoption of single minors. The Council of State refers to the provision in the letter of allocation to the UDI for 2017 that unaccompanied minors are to be given priority at all stages of the migration chain, including in the procedure. It also says that those who are considered to be over 18 years of age, who are most likely to be authoritative at good margins. The Council of State therefore states that, in the event of normal asylum seekers’ inflows, it should not be essential whether the age is assessed at the time of arrival or at the time of the decision. The JELUEA declaration does not affect this, as far as I can see. The progress party was clear in its article here on how they interpret this. I hope that the Left can also explain whether they are now behind the same point of view. I notice that the Council of State feels it is not appropriate to distinguish between the time of arrival and the time of decision because they are then prioritised. Then the Council of State adds that this will be the case with normal asylum seekers inflows. I believe there is a need for the Council of State to explain in more detail what was the situation in 2015 and 2016, when the influx was completely different. How long did it take between arrival and treatment? The centre party was part of the majority who in 2016 adopted amendments to Section 28 fifth paragraph of the Foreign Affairs Act, by removing the reasonableness condition in the event of an internal flight. We do not support the proposal to reintroduce this. We believe that through the adoption of vulnerability criteria, we have caught up with the most problematic aspects of the way in which the government has followed up the lapse of reasonableness. The removal of the reasonableness condition has had greater consequences than many thought, due to the follow-up of the decision by the government. Both in the Ministry's production in Prop. 90 L for 2015-2016 and even more clearly in the UNE consultation opinion on the case, the consequences are considered to be minor. UNE says: ‘Although the reasonableness condition of the fifth paragraph of Section 28 of the Foreign Affairs Act should be lifted, the UN will still have to assess whether there is strong human interest under Section 38 of the First paragraph of the Foreign Affairs Act in the event of a return to internal refugee areas. It may be said that the reasonableness assessment would be transferred from the fifth paragraph of Section 28 of the Foreign Affairs Act to the first paragraph of Section 38.’ When UNE's understanding of legislative changes did not come to an end, it is a consequence of the regulatory follow-up and practice carried out by the Ministry. It is this Greatness has been corrected by decisions of vulnerability criteria. In the center part, we think the most important thing now is to get these criteria in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e501	This issue is about whether Norway should comply with its obligations under the Refugee Convention — and its other obligations — and not return any to danger or, through irresponsible return, contribute to destabilising countries and territories so that more people have to flee, as is the case with Norway. SV has made several suggestions, and we are taking a few small steps today, to which I am going to come back. First to the system about the decision on when it is safe or not: I hear completely free fantasies about interpretations of what this proposal means, but when UDI's chief of staff says to VG on 6 November that the threshold for what we can't return is a political question, it says a little bit about a political responsibility to set that threshold right, after the commitments we have. It is also said that there is no disagreement that Afghanistan has become much more dangerous. All reports show it, all reports for those on the ground show it. The former Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Labour Party and former Minister of Defence said so. Right-hand pastor Kai Eide says that. These are people who have been on the ground in Afghanistan many times. Nevertheless, Norway considers Afghanistan and Kabul to be safer for internal migration now than before. What are the assessments? Amnesty's report has even documented that someone who has been returned has been killed, and we know little about the others because we do not monitor the return, such as we might take a bit of a step for today. Then we can be on the wrong side of the vital fundamental principle that we should not return any to danger. It is not enough for other countries to do what Norway is doing now; it is Norway’s responsibility to find a system that interprets this right and that does not politicise it. What assessments are made by the authorities, so that we do not risk sending anyone to danger? One of the assessments is, for example:: Can the authorities of the country to which we send people provide effective protection? It says that we are obliged to do so. I doubt you can do that in Afghanistan. And I've gone through UDI's criteria for provinces that can be classified as generally unsafe. They say, ‘if the opposing parties use methods and tactics of warfare that are directly or directly directed against civilians’ — yes, as is the case in Kabul, ‘if the use of such methods and/or tactics is widespread between the parties’ — yes, as is the case in Kabul, ‘if the fighting actions are geographically limited or widespread’ — yes, it is also widespread in Kabul, and ‘the number of civilians killed, wounded and displaced as a result of the fighting actions’. Developments in 2017 and so far in 2018 make it difficult to understand how the UDI can classify Kabul and other provinces as safe on the basis of these criteria. That's when I wonder how these decisions are made and how this system is. That is why we believe that there is an expert committee that should look at these decisions – whether what we previously thought to be unsafe, now is safe. Both parts cannot be right at the same time. And one of the serious things about this is that it is also reported that if you are sent back, there are not many other choices but to get recruited to a warlord and perhaps go into service against the forces that Norway has also sent down there. So this is very serious. What we want is to relate to facts and obligations and to how they should be interpreted. Then I get to the second point. It is that Norway has also acceded to the Vienna Convention on the Interpretation of the Refugee Convention and other Conventions. They must be interpreted in good faith, as it is called, and there is a legal framework for this. I've read the government documents. I find no references to the Vienna Convention and how the interpretations are to be made. It is then suspected that these are purely political interpretations and that they are overruled. And that's reason to believe it, because UNE has said in its hearings to some of the changes that the government has proposed, that this is a violation of the conventions. UNHCR, the High Commissioner for Refugees, and UNICEF come into the committee to the Storting and say that we are breaking our Convention obligations, and the Storing is sitting completely silent. The government doesn't match what you say. This is serious, because it's not just about Norway being the best in the class; it's about these conventions being about what's on the bottom line – life and death. Then we're going to be on the right side, as Jonas Gahr Støre also said in the debate on November 14. But I'm afraid we're not there, and Amnesty's report has shown that we're not there. When the government does not listen to the trade unions, but politicizes, there is reason to get someone to look at this system – not because you necessarily agree with SV in one and all, but because it is necessary. So to the reasonableness condition, yes, the reasonableness condition is something that Norway is obliged to do. Norway is soon the only country that does not have it in its legislation, and one of the reasons why many more can now be returned is that it has been removed. Then the question is, is that right? Is this human being, like, Mr Engen-Helgheim said, ‘without a real need for protection’? This assessment can be taken into account – precisely because the vulnerability criteria have not been strong, the reasonableness conditions are not strong, and decisions have not documented how the child-care assessments have been carried out. I hear you say you do it, but when in so many cases it is revealed that it is not written down how it is done, it also means that it is completely impossible to verify afterwards that it has been done – or the assessments that have been made. In addition, it is true that many things are being converted in UNE, and that is good, but it also shows that the system has weaknesses. And I repeat again: these are not ordinary things; these are things that can be about life and death for them. I hear repeatedly that there is a pull factor in this. The reason why people are fleeing the world is chaos, war, lack of security, persecution by the authorities, lack of protection by the authorities, sometimes even outright distress. That's what's the main reason people run away. This is why it is in Norway’s interest not to contribute to destabilising areas such as Kabul, for example. Not only Norway is doing this; many are doing it. Pakistan is sending home over a million refugees to a country and an area that is not safe and is so secure that international communities are present — and Norway is present. Then the question of whether that is in our interest is also that this happens. I am pleased that we are now going to get the pediatric evaluations into the decisions, so that we can at least verify them. I am pleased that a monitoring mechanism is being set in motion – that is what we are getting into today. I am very sorry that we are not now getting the vulnerability criteria properly established, and that they should be fixed. That would have been necessary, because then there are clear rules that neither the Council of State nor the administration can go around. I am very sorry that there will not be a majority for the reasonableness criterion today. I am pleased that the Left is in favour of this, and I hope that, at least through the vote here today, they are in favour of it. That means we have a big job to do. SV wants to support the Left in the difficult job they have now taken on by entering the government in these areas, because these are important principles for Norway to stay within. It took us a hundred years and two world wars to put in place these conventions that have civilised – at least there has been an attempt to civilize – how countries should behave when it's most difficult: in war and conflict. I see that not only Norway, but also many other countries are in the process of destroying this framework through their interpretation and extension of these commitments. It doesn't make us safer; it makes us more insecure. I would like to address the suggestions that SV has alone and are with others in the three settings.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e524	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e529	The situation in Afghanistan is serious. The UN estimates that 9.3 million people needed humanitarian aid in 2017. There are 2 million internally displaced refugees. There has also been a dramatic increase in the number of terrorist attacks in the form of suicide bombs and road bombs and safety-related incidents associated with mines and unexposed explosives. While the security situation has worsened, Norway has pursued a strict return policy which also means that 18-year-olds who came to the country as lone minor asylum seekers are returned to Afghanistan – to parts of the country other than their origin. A single 18-year-old who has spent the last few years in Norway, even though he or she is competent, will be vulnerable, especially to return to an area where he or she does not come from. Lack of information and social networking in the places to which they are returned make them very vulnerable, and they have a greater risk of being recruited to the Taliban, IS or other radical groups. The safety situation in Afghanistan and other countries Norway returns to needs to be assessed continuously. We trust Landinfo to make thorough assessments. Landinfo is important, and the Left has previously called for the strengthening of Landinfo through the establishment of a common Nordic land information. This will provide a wider and wider professional environment that will enable a closer follow-up of the situation in different countries. Return is an important part of the asylum institution. The right to apply for asylum is fundamental, but not everyone has the right to asylum. If you get a rejection, you have to be returned. Voluntary return is best for the individual’s ability to recover in the home country. Force return is the last resort. However, the non-refoulement principle shall be based. No person shall risk being returned if there is a risk of persecution and degrading treatment. The returnees shall have effective protection in the country to which they are returned. This needs to be considered in a concrete way, and the assessment of the safety situation is central. Repentance is invasive for the person concerned and incorrect assessments of whether it is safe to return may have fatal consequences. Therefore, it is important not only that we make a thorough assessment of the safety situation but also that the population has confidence in the assessments made on behalf of the community. This trust can be strengthened by an open and independent assessment of legislation and practices in return for Afghanistan. Such assessments would have to be linked to other return countries, but the number of returnees to Afghanistan, including those who came here as single minors, is so high that it is natural to consider Afghanistan first. The majority do not wish to reconsider the removal of the reasonableness condition for internal flight. It's been the Left's position over many, many years. The primary position doesn't change if you go to government, but of course we recognize that there is a large majority in the Chamber who have gone in to remove the reasonableness condition. The left is uncertain about the content of the vulnerability criteria that are now to be considered. We have also made this known – that it would be best to reintroduce the reasonableness requirement. We have now seen a clear difference between the number, 220, which is referred to as the October children – a significant number – and what, when introducing vulnerability criteria, will relate to a place between 0 and 220 – very likely much closer to 0 than 220. Nor do we oppose the introduction of a kind of vulnerability criteria. Our task is to bring it as close to the reasonableness condition as possible. The principle of affordability was removed in connection with the restrictions imposed by the Foreign Affairs Act in spring 2016, and Norway is one of the few countries that do not make use of the reasonableness condition. There is no doubt that this has led to a significant increase in the number of temporary stays. This setting was issued last week. We are at our primary point of view on the matter. Together with the SV and the Christian People's Party, this is a primary wish that we have endured for a long time. Then we have to hope that the vulnerability criteria are as close to the kind of reasonableness conditions that were removed. In the debate when we had the urgent treatment of the vulnerability criteria before Christmas, I suggested that it would apply to 10 people who will stay after the October children have been re-opened. We'll see how many there will be. I hope that there may be a few more, that I have been wrong. But at least this is the difference when we're actually talking about the number between 0 and 220. Then the Workers' Party will also assess whether the ten are a number that you think it was worth taking that media fight for.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e548	Today, we are debating very important issues – issues that deal with how we as a society treat people on the run, and what standards we are going to set to ensure that we are within our international obligations and within what is a legal state worthy of Norway. We are debating today whether we should reintroduce the reasonableness condition in the event of internal refugees. This condition was, unfortunately, removed in the previous period by the Workers' Party, the Right, the Advance Party and the Center Party. The removal of this condition has had consequences that we warned against when it was removed, but the majority does not choose to reintroduce it. I think that's very sad. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees, Foreign Affairs, the Association of Lawyers, Amnesty, NOAS and legal experts in the field in Norway have stated that the removal of the reasonableness condition in the case of internal refugee assessments is contrary to our international obligations. This condition is not directly apparent from the Refugee Convention but is nevertheless set out in the guidelines of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees. The removal of the reasonableness condition is therefore contrary to our obligations under international law. In its opinion, Norwegian Folkehelp pointed out that the removal of this condition has led Norway from being a ‘best practice’ country to being a ‘worst case’ country. I think that's very serious. Even before the reasonableness condition was removed, Norway was one of Europe’s most stringent in the field of the practice of legislation related to internal migration. It is therefore sad that the majority of the Stortinget now chooses to ignore this. This is reflected in the EU Status Directive and is therefore practised in EU countries. Norway is thus now one of the few Western countries that do not have reasonable conditions for the assessment of internal migration. When the condition was removed, the Christian People's Party warned against the proposal mainly affecting the most vulnerable groups, namely lone minors, families with children, lonely women and very sick people, and, unfortunately, I must say, struck what we feared. The use of a temporary residence permit for lone minor asylum seekers has increased significantly since the removal of the reasonableness conditions. I think that's very unfortunate. The situation of the October children marked the autumn last year. It is really urgent to implement what Stortinget decided in November. This applies to young people who have been put on hold for their lives. It is positive that the new government statement shows that the age of the lone minor asylum seekers at the time of the first decision is the age to be taken, but this is also the intention of the majority, so in many ways it should be lacking. Now I expect the young people not to wait any longer. The Christian People's Party believes that those who do not have a legal basis for staying in Norway should be sent out, but we believe that everyone should be treated well and under central legal guarantees. That is why we are voting to reintroduce the reasonableness condition for assessments of internal flight. Refugee children seeking asylum in Norway are a very vulnerable group. They come from difficult conditions and may have been subjected to abuse during the flight and as a result have several mental health problems. Norway therefore has a great responsibility to treat these children in a good way. NOAS, FO and Redd Barna produced a report last year on 50 cases dealing with lone minor asylum seekers. They then revealed that the best of the child was little apparent from the decisions. It's serious. Norway is bound by the Convention on the Rights of the Child. In matters relating to children, the best interests of the child shall be fundamental. I am therefore pleased that the majority of the Grand Duchy today is voting in favour of the proposal that the government should ensure ‘that a thorough, comprehensive and individual assessment of the child’s best in each asylum case is made and that these assessments are made visible and justified in decisions as required by the Children’s Convention.’ And I expect the Council of State to ensure that this is implemented. The Christian People's Party, together with the SV, has proposed that, when assessing whether to grant a limited residence permit to lone minor asylum seekers over 16 years of age, who are allowed to stay because of lack of proper care on return under paragraphs 8 to 8 of the Foreign Regulation, different vulnerability criteria should be specified, whether or not the single minor asylum seeker has health problems affecting daily life, is particularly vulnerable due to past care failure, abuse or exploitation, has a particular need for stability and continuity, for example after a long time on the run, has no family or networks that can provide support and/or resources to cope with the return, and has a weak relationship with the home country due to several years of residence outside the home country. The regulation must ensure that these criteria are given greater weight than in the past when dealing with the cases of single minor asylum seekers. Unfortunately, we do not get a majority for this today. The safety situation in Afghanistan has recently been steadily deteriorating and is now very unstable. There has been a large increase in the number of terrorist attacks and safety-related incidents. Landinfo reports also show that the safety situation is getting worse. It is therefore strange, in my opinion, that the foreign administration still considers Kabul to be a safe place to return people to an internal flight. It is therefore important, in the view of the Christian People's Party, to set up an independent expert committee to review legislation and practices relating to returns to Afghanistan. It is important to ensure that we do not return anyone to Afghanistan in breach of our international obligations. Finally, I would like to stress that it is good that Norway is now overseeing forced returns, even if we would prefer to see this done on a permanent basis and not as a pilot project. In any case, it will be important to ensure that Norway is also in this area within its obligations under international law. The Christian People's Party is going to follow this development closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e571	In fact, Norway is the country in Europe that is returning most asylum seekers to Afghanistan – according to a report by Amnesty – most not only in relation to the population, but the total number of people regardless of country. People who have returned to Norway have been killed, injured or have to live in fear because of their faith. The security situation in Afghanistan has been clearly exacerbated, and the UN and other actors strongly advise against returning asylum seekers there. The fact that the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Central Party are opposed to this proposal is unfortunately not surprising, but that the Workers' Party chooses to march along with the Council of State, Listhaug, shows what they really mean when they talk about a strict but fair asylum policy. We can't just sit here, bathing in prosperity and peace, and at the same time send young, vulnerable people back to a country torn apart by continued war and blind violence. We can and must make sure that people who have come here and who need protection get it. In Norway we let ourselves be frightened and react with disgust when Trump and his perpetrators on the extreme right fly talk about refugees and walls and shitland. At the same time, the government of Norway, with strong support from an opposition party, is pursuing a quite similar policy. They may not talk about building a physical wall, but they set up an insurmountable barrier and call it instead a strict but fair policy. It's not very fair to return fellow humans to a country in war and dissolution. It's inhumane and a mockery of genuine Norwegian values like humanity and love for the next. As Arnulf Upperland put it during the growth of the labour movement in the 1930s: we should not tolerate so intensely well, the injustice that does not affect ourselves. But that's exactly what we do if we return people to Afghanistan. For the Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ Travel Council for Afghanistan, it is also very clear: ‘The Ministry of Foreign Affairs advises against travelling or staying in Afghanistan which is not strictly necessary.’ And on the other hand, ‘The security situation in Afghanistan is very challenging. [[...]] The risk of terrorist attacks is considerable in most places in Afghanistan. [[...]] There is also a risk of killing, kidnapping, attempted kidnapping, and of being hit by suicide bombing and the use of road bombs.» Why doesn't the government listen to its own U.S. professionals? We have the opportunity to take care of and protect these people, these families, these children. We have to open our eyes and our hearts. It could have been appropriate to ask the representatives of the parties who vote against today, whether they would send children as they know, their own children or family members, to Afghanistan. You might have to get acquainted with these young people who have come here to understand and know the unyieldingness of this. Sometimes it's actually allowed to use both reason and next love, and I'd like to insist that you don't go for the committee's position today. We should also show these people what Norwegian values are in practice. The working party says everyone's coming. Well, they could try to live up to their own slogan by voting for this proposal, but they've signaled that they don't. A core value for the Green Party is extended solidarity, i.e.: solidarity not only within the borders of Norway, among the North, but also solidarity with all those who call the Earth their home. We're here together, breathing the same air, dreaming the same dreams of peace, must help each other. Then putting this into practice by stopping forced returns to Afghanistan should be the absolute least we could do. In our enormous oil wealth, we don't even do that. I wonder what the historians of the future are going to say about us. Perhaps the summary in 2100: Yes, the Norwegians were happy and rich around 2018, but they were so self-absorbed that this just got the worst in them.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e597	Norway has sent people back to Afghanistan who have been injured, who have been killed, who live in fear because of their faith. It remains highly unclear whether Norwegian return practices are in line with international law in respect of returns to Afghanistan. It is therefore very difficult for us to understand why it is a problem for the government parties to carry out an external evaluation of legislation and practice in assisted return and forced return in these cases. This may be due to the fact that an evaluation is likely to show that the returns are contrary to Norwegian obligations under international law. The UNHCR Supreme Court Opinion on this matter concludes with criticism of Norway’s practice of referring to internal migration. Amnesty International refers to the fact that Kabul should not be considered a safe internal escape option. Already there are two million internally displaced refugees in the country. The returnees lead to a deterioration in the situation of internal refugees in Afghanistan. According to Landinfo, the security situation in Kabul continues to deteriorate, and Kabul is the province with most civilian losses in Afghanistan. Therefore, it is not only difficult but impossible to understand that the UDI interprets the country reports to the point that Kabul is safe. The majority of the population do not want a temporary stop in the transport of asylum seekers to Afghanistan until a sample has assessed legislation and practices in these cases. Then the population is the largest population in terms of population. In an opinion poll, presented in the class struggle on November 3rd, 41 pst answered. that they agree with the claim ‘no Afghan refugees should be returned before security improves in Afghanistan’. Only 22 pst. agree, and that is the 22% that the majority of the population are taking sides today – against the majority of the population. In the last months of 2017, the arrival of refugees in Norway was at their lowest since 1995. At the same time, thousands of people die on the run across the Mediterranean. Red has been against Norwegian participation in the devastating war in Afghanistan all the way. Norway – as a war nation – must also take responsibility for the consequences of the war we have engaged in. At the end of August 2017, only a quarter of Afghan refugees received asylum here in Norway. Then it is strange, we think, that the Labour Party's representative in the municipal committee Jorodd Asphjell asks the Minister for Immigration about Afghanistan is a safe country to return young people to – on the same day as he said no to review the legislation, the practices of the foreign authorities, the reports and the supporting material used by the authorities to assess the security of the country and the case law, and whether Norwegian return practices are in line with international law. This contradiction is not a red one. On the contrary, we support the proposals of the minority in this matter. With regard to the Committee's examination of the SV's proposal for a representative to "establish reasonable conditions for the transfer of foreign nationals into the law on immigration, ensuring effective child-care assessments, etc.", Red supports the Committee's minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e618	I am very pleased that almost all the proposals are being voted down and that the comments are clear that they support the need for restrictive asylum policies and an effective return policy. The size has recently voted on several of the proposals put forward here, and a majority have decided that adults referred to internal migration after 1 October 2016 when they were minors should be re-evaluated. In the near future, I will present new regulations that regulate this right to re-treatment, as well as how the care and return situation of single minors should be weighted in the treatment of future cases. In Document 8:47 S for 2017-2018, proposers ask for a temporary stop in the transport of all asylum seekers to Afghanistan until an independent expert committee has carried out an open assessment of the legislation and practices in these cases. Fortunately, this matter has already been voted down in Stortinget, and I am glad that the same will happen today. It is UDI and UNE that decide on applications for asylum. They make thorough and individual assessments on each case, and the situation in the country from which the applicant comes is assessed on the basis of a wide range of sources, compiled by Landinfo. This proposal is distrustful of the foreign authorities, which I do not think is the basis for this. Much is needed before the general security situation is so serious that any return to a country or region would be contrary to Norwegian law and our international obligations. Today, UDI and UNE consider only a few areas in Afghanistan to be so unsafe that everyone from there is entitled to protection. As far as I am aware, there are no other comparable countries today who believe that the overall security situation in Afghanistan, including Kabul, implies that all asylum seekers from there have a need for protection. UDI and UNE follow the situation in Afghanistan closely, and they continuously assess the need for changes in practice. I have full confidence in the management of these matters by the foreigner, and I cannot see that this has been provided with information related to their practice that is suitable for weakening this trust. I would also like to stress the importance of not reversing the principle of individual case treatment, including that the assessment of the countries to which it is appropriate to return asylum seekers should not be subject to political intervention. I can't see how to put together an expert committee that will be better able to make the complex assessments that are being carried out here. I would also like to remind you that we already have a system in which UDI and UNE practices are subject to review in the courts. It is also very unclear which status the expert committee’s assessments are intended to have, whether the sample is to be continuously monitored for developments in Afghanistan, and whether the sample’s decisions should be brought to justice. It also appears unclear whether this is a special scheme for Afghanistan or whether it should also be used to clarify practices for other countries. The asylum system was previously largely subject to political influence and interference. You did that with good reason. I am pleased that there is a broad majority who want to maintain an asylum system where individual decisions are taken without political interference. I am glad that Norway as the only country in Europe is not stopping all returns to Afghanistan. The return of persons without protection is important in order to maintain confidence in the asylum system. There is a broad consensus on the Stortinget that people will return without a legal stay. Norway is at the forefront of Europe’s return implementation, including Afghanistan. It would have been alarming if Norway were now to stop returning and go in the opposite direction to the rest of Europe. The second part of the proposal, on the establishment of an ‘independent and effective supervision of forced return of asylum seekers under the EU Return Directive’, is already under way. The task shall be entrusted to the Trandum Supervisory Board. The Ministry, the Directorate of Police and the Board of Supervisors are now in dialogue on the establishment of the scheme. The aim is to implement a pilot scheme during the first six months of 2018. Document 8:64 LS for 2017-2018 proposes to reintroduce the reasonableness condition for internal flight. The condition was lifted by the majority in June 2016 and the amendment entered into force on 1 October 2016. A similar proposal for a representative was examined in June 2017, without the consent of the majority. Norway is not obliged to have a so-called ‘reasonable’ condition, either under the Refugee Convention or under international law. Nor are the recommendations of the UNHCR and the EU Status Directive binding on Norway. We have room for action to design the internal refugee rule as long as practice is at the heart of the refugee convention, and we respect the absolute protection against return to persecution or serious abuse. Where reference is made to internal migration, consideration shall always be given to whether there are grounds for granting a residence permit for humanitarian reasons, according to Section 38 of the Act. Aspects previously taken into account during the reasonableness assessment are now taken into account in the assessment under Section 38. The concept of ‘unpredictable’ is discretionary and unclear and has led to differing understanding of administrative and judicial practices. This allows for different treatment with regard to who is entitled to protection and for more than our international obligations to be given refugee status and residence permits. It's unfortunate. It is important that Norwegian law ensures equal treatment and predictability for asylum seekers, and is clear when we have obligations to provide refugee status. If it is possible to obtain protection in your own country, there is no requirement for international protection. It is quite wrong to provide for the possibility for persons who can receive protection in their own country to stay in Norway. In a world of 65 million people on the run, this is the wrong priority. Furthermore, the Government is asked to: ‘ensure that a thorough, comprehensive and individual assessment of the best interests of the child is made in each asylum case and that these assessments are made visible and justified in decisions’. The existing legislation already provides for this to be done. This will be underlined in relation to all aspects of the foreign administration. Protection assessments shall take into account whether the applicants are children and the best interests of the child shall be a fundamental consideration when assessing the residence permit under § 38 of the Act and the threshold for granting authorisation to children is lower than for adults. It is clear from § 17-1a of the Foreign Regulation that the assessments of the child’s situation are to be made in the decisions. In addition, in order to further recall that the child’s best interests are assessed and emphasised, I would like to state in a short time that a temporary authorisation for single minor asylum seekers must be sound in the interests of the child’s best interests. The proposers also propose specifying several specified vulnerability criteria in the form of regulations. As a follow-up to Request Decision No. 24 for 2017-2018 I intend to attach several relevant elements to the regulation that will be considered when assessing whether a standard § 38 permit should be granted, or a time-limited permit until the age of 18. This legislation will also replace the Department's instructions GI-02/2017, cf. request decision No This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its Finally, it is proposed that the age at the time of arrival should be decisive for the possibility of authorisation under §8-8 of the Regulation. However, several factors suggest that the date of the decision should be taken. We would like, among other things: ensure that the decision is based on up-to-date information. Age surveys are often carried out by lone minors, and it will take some time after arrival or application time to obtain the results of such a study. The result shall then be assessed against other information in the case which may illustrate the age of the applicant. Consequently, real age will often not be clarified at the time of arrival. We shouldn't have a code that opens up to base the stated age, as many people can see themselves worth stating that they are younger than what they are actually. Such a solution could mean treating adults as children, so the Convention on the Rights of the Child will apply to adults. In my opinion, this is going to be a mistake.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e661	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e666	On 14 November, the Stortinget decided that all cases with decisions taken from 1 October 2016 relating to lone minor asylum seekers referred to internally displaced persons should be re-examined. It's a very delimitation. But in the debate then, and also afterwards, both the Council of State and the Political Spokesman of the Progressive Party have said about the decision that this would lead to us becoming a haven for asylum seekers in Europe. On Jeløya, both the leader of the Left and the Prime Minister have said that changes have now been made to make it easier to deal with their cases and to make it easier for the so-called asylum-seekers and the October children. What is the Council of State's definition of this now? There must be further liberalisation in relation to the decision taken on 14 November.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e671	We are now in the process of following up that decision. As Stortinget is familiar with, it has taken some time, and it is simply because we had to do a review – that is, discuss the decision, which was not prepared in advance. We are going to follow up that decision in line with what the Storting has adopted, and what is on the Jeløya platform, and I will soon come back to this legislation, so that you can see what it will mean. What it will entail is too early to say, because it is the foreign authorities who are going to deal with these matters. But what I'm concerned about now is that we're going to quickly get out these new instructions and regulations, so that the foreign agencies can get started and deal with these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e678	I am pleased that Listhaug says that she should be speeded up in the proceedings. A government that went to the elections on executive power should have made it clear for a while. But the council doesn't respond to what I'm asking. The consensus on Jeløya is presented by the Left as a victory in the asylum case. In the past, Listhaug has said that the decision relating to the October children would lead to Norway becoming a haven for asylum seekers in Europe. With further liberalisation, how does Listhaug define the matter now?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e683	For the Jeløya declaration, there is a mix of some reliefs – among others. for October children, i.e. that there may be a degree of liberalisation beyond what was the starting point — and that there may be tension elsewhere. Family reunification is a very good example of that, which I think is one of the challenges. There are quite a number of family reunifications that we do not have enough requirements to provide for those who come. So I think it's a good platform, which I'm happy to follow up, and which we're also going to discuss in this room, because there's going to be some legislative proposals in the wake of it. So I believe that the matter that concerns the adult men who came when they were children will soon end up by putting the legislation in place, and you can start dealing with these matters. I think that's good for the Storting, and that's good for them. It's good for everyone, so you can move on.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e688	This means that the decision taken at Stortinget on 14 November is followed up in such a way that it is the time of decision and not the age of the individual child. Those who were single minors when a decision was taken will then be dealt with in line with the decision taken by the Stortinget. Then again, my question: what is in the liberalisation that has been agreed on at Jeløya?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e693	Now we're going to present this in a short time. Then the representative Aasrud will see what lies in what lies on the Jeløya platform. I have been concerned about following up this in the best possible way. Therefore, it has taken some time, there has been a need to investigate it, and I have also shown that there are quite a number of questions in the follow-up to it. But now we are soon on target, and then the representative Aasrud will have to see what legislation is coming into practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e698	The Council of State, by letter to the Committee, states that at the time of arrival and at the time of decision, this is inappropriate because there is such a short time between them that it does not constitute anything. Can the State Council say something about average time now, and can she say little about the average time of proceedings, or the distance between those two times, in 2015–2016? Today is the first day the Stortinget meets after a new government has arrived, and it starts with the government parties Right and Advance Party voting against the reintroduction of the reasonableness condition, while the government party Left votes in favour. This makes the Storting a little frustrated: what is the government's policy? That is why I hope the Council of State can explain what is really the government's policy in this area, and how the Council of State will follow this up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e706	I don't know if the Storting is so frustrated, but it's tempting to say that you might want to try to make some political games. To be serious: the policy to be followed by this government lies in the platform that is accessible to all. I am looking forward to many good debates in the future where we will address different policy areas, including in the field of immigration. When it comes to processing time, I cannot say here and now just how long it is, but it is clear that now it is short because there are few lonely minors coming to Norway. When we were in a situation when it came over 5,000, the processing time was naturally much longer. I believe, however, that we have a good code. This is important, for example: to be able to make an age determination, because we know that some of those who come are coming without papers, and some are trying to lie at age and pretend to be younger than they are, because it gives easier stay in Norway. This information will be combined with other information, which is why we believe that the current system is good.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e715	One of the core themes of today’s issue is that Norway complies with its obligations under international law. There is no government council that has politicized this field as much as the Council of State has Listhaug. Norway is obliged by the Vienna Convention, and in government documents I find no evidence of how it has been assessed. But the Council of State says in its articles that there are people who don't trust the administration and don't trust it. This is the question of why the Council of State does not trust the Foreign Affairs Department, when, in its opinion of the Foreign Affairs Council on the removal of the reasonableness condition, the Foreign Affairs Council points out that state practice speaks for Norway to be obliged by international law to have a reasonable condition in the event of an internal refugee. So the government doesn't listen to its own professional board, which is supposed to have the professional discretion here. Can Listhaug explain what political considerations it is that have overestimated the professional judgement in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e720	Of course, we're listening to the recordings that come, also from the underlying agencies. But we have our own political opinions on how to do these things. It is then fully possible within the Conventions not to have such a condition. We believe it is quite reasonable that if you come from a country where you can get protection in your own country, somewhere other than where you normally live, you should. I think that is quite reasonable. The fact that SV and the representative Karin Andersen want to soften the policy and open the door to as much as possible is nothing new, but I think we should have a real debate that suggests that we are sticking within the international commitments. Then we have different opinions about what's best, but it's a completely different discussion than a discussion about conventions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e725	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e730	It is quite clear in this debate that today we are debating a matter that is very well known to the Stortinget. The question of a temporary stop in the transport of asylum seekers to Afghanistan until an independent expert committee has carried out an open assessment of the legislation and practices in the matter, was also debated and voted on in November, as many have pointed out. It is right and important that we should be thorough in asylum matters. There are issues that have major consequences for those involved. This is precisely why an asylum institution that works is important. It is important to ensure the need for protection, and those in need of protection must have it. The possibility of seeking asylum is a fundamental human right. Our government is committed to maintaining a restrictive – yes – responsible and legal-safe immigration policy within the framework of the international commitments, which the Council of State has just emphasised. It is also clarified in the new Jeløya government platform. Because the refugee situation and the migration pattern are as low as predicted, asylum policy must ensure that the number of asylum seekers without protection is kept to a minimum and that they are given their cases clarified as soon as possible. It is about the need for resources to be used for asylum seekers with a real need for protection and for quota refugees. Millions of people are refugees for many different reasons. We are concerned that our country should assume its responsibilities, but it must be done in such a way that the institution of asylum is not undermined, and that the arrival figures are not so high that we cannot cope with the integration of those who have arrived and who are to remain here in the country. That is precisely why it is so important that we have control of this matter, which is by its very nature so difficult to create predictability. Return policy will then be an important part of the work, even if it is difficult. As I see it, we are served with cooperation and a lower level of conflict in these matters. And I must say that I think it is rather disappointing that parts of the opposition almost suspect both the government and the trade unions in part of these debates – not least the doubts raised about the UDI and UNE's understanding of the situation in Afghanistan. As far as Afghanistan is concerned, as far as we are aware, no other comparable country considers that the overall security situation in Afghanistan indicates that all asylum seekers from there need protection. UNE raised the threshold in 2016 when an area in Afghanistan was to be considered generally unsafe. The consequence of this is that individual assessments of the individual protection needs of each applicant are carried out to an even greater extent than before. Changes in practice were also made in 2016, precisely because the UDI has seen changes in the security situation in Afghanistan. It's worth noting. I trust that UDI and UNE, with their access to a wide range of sources, will follow the situation closely and continuously assess whether there is a need to change practices. So some comments on the other matter we're dealing with, the question of reasonableness, and the best of the children. It is important to note that the consideration of the best interests of children is also a fundamental consideration when considering granting a residence permit in accordance with current legislation. It is strongly anchored that children can be granted a residence permit even if the situation is not so serious that adults would receive the same. The Regulation demonstrates that the visibility of assessment and weightings against other criteria shall be established and it is an important principle to follow up in practice. As far as I am aware, both UNE and UDI have been taking action for several years to strengthen precisely the child-care competence in the proceedings. The proposal for a representative, Document 8:64 LS, addresses issues relating to the establishment of conditions of reasonable internal mobility. Norway is not legally obliged to have such a condition in the legislation, but the core of our international commitments is that no one should be returned to persecution, torture or inhumane treatment and punishment. We have room for action to decide whether refugee status should be granted, but practice should be at the heart of the refugee convention. There is no doubt that Norway is bound by Article 33 of the Refugee Convention and by Article 3 of the EMC. In addition, our authorities always assess whether authorisation under Section 38 of the Foreign Affairs Act can be granted when reference is made to internal migration. [[President clubs]] [[The President cut off]] And then there's also...
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e749	Talida's out. The next speaker is Abid Q. Raja. The President recalls that the speakers who are given the floor below have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e756	The asylum institute is something we need to protect. Norway has undertaken to do so. The right to apply for asylum and asylum shall remain. Being on the run is no joyous matter for anyone who spends time on flight. Our task is to help those people who are in need, and follow the traditions that go all the way back to Nansen's time. I noticed that the case rapporteur, Mr. Örmen Johnsen, was concerned that we, who are responsible for the other proposals, do not have confidence in the foreign agencies, and I noticed that the Council of State also underlined something of the same nature. I strongly reject the fact that we do not trust the foreign agencies – we do. One of the examples from not so long ago is the right of instruction over UNE, which we in the Left wanted to retain as an independent court-like body, but which other parties in this room, including the Council of State, helped to weaken. I believe it was a step in the wrong direction, and it is good that it could be corrected. As regards the safety situation in Afghanistan, it must be kept under constant review. We in the Left have confidence that Landinfo makes thorough assessments. Landinfo is important, and that is why we in the Left have addressed precisely to strengthen Landinfo to a common Nordic Landinfo. The fact that today in the vote we are proposing to set up an expert committee to conduct an open assessment on return to Afghanistan, I would hope the majority in this Chamber, including the Council of State, did not fear so much that they would find it safest to vote against. We believe that such openness would be an advantage to democracy. Information does not damage transparency. The fact that we have experts in Norway who can look at this with new eyes, I would think that the majority in the room would be the same, because then you are absolutely sure that the assessments made are correct. I think it's okay that we have experts in Norway who can give us answers, and we don't know what the answer would have been. The second left here requests is the ‘introduction of reasonable internal escape conditions’. I think that with respect is not unreasonable to expect. Here you should also listen to the Foreign Affairs Department, which you would like to push in front of you when it is appropriate. The representative of Aasrud was in the exchange of views with the Council of State in so far as the Jeløya declaration was concerned. It's true that the Left is very pleased with what we've been given in the Yeluya statement at the point that Aasrud was at. It says: ‘In the follow-up to Decision 14.11.2017 of the Storting relating to lone minor asylum seekers, take into account the age at the time of the initial decision in the new application process.’ [[shall man]] We hope that this will mean that more people will have the opportunity to stay in Norway, precisely because they will be assessed as children if they were children at the time of the decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e774	Yes, you can see that there are some disagreements between the programs of the government parties, but it is absolutely amazing that we have been able to reconcile this in the Jeloya declaration. That being said, there's a new period that starts now. I am very pleased with the presentation by the Council of State on how to now follow the vulnerability criteria for lone minor asylum seekers. I must say that there should be a heavy load on the children's shoulders when they are sent out on an asylum trip. I remember that such an organized trip could cost up to 80 000 kroner. I've been talking to gangsters who say that children simply don't dare to go home for fear of reprisals from their family. That's not how we can do it, and that's why we want to limit this flow of lone minor asylum seekers. It should be clear that if there is a need for protection, stay in Norway. If there is no need for protection, but there are special human considerations in the case, there is also a humanitarian residence, and this is done today. I believe that there is no basis for claiming that Norwegian Afghanistan practices are contrary to Norway's international obligations. I think it's a myth that SV is trying to create. In 2016, the Ministry of Justice and Defence carried out a separate review of Norwegian Afghanistan practices compared to practices in the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and Denmark. The review showed that Norwegian practice was in good agreement with those countries. Then it is referred to here from former negroes in parties and knowledge of Afghanistan. Yeah, I have all the respect for it. But I would like to point out that these negroes are not experts in the field of asylum law. And yes, it's worrying, and there are safety assessments that are taken ashore, but the right of asylum is about the political persecution of the individual. And then I have to tell the Greens that this is not going to work. The oil industry must therefore be phased out while this is being called for to accept all refugees from Afghanistan. That bill doesn't go up at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e789	Last fall thousands of students went on demonstration trains in Trondheim for the Afghan family Abassi. They came to Norway as refugees and have lived here for many years. Several of the children in the family are born on the run and have never been to Afghanistan. The vast majority of politicians in Trondheim, following a commendable initiative from the Left, sent an opinion to the Stortinget. There they wrote: ‘The Trondheim Presidency is concerned about the situation of asylum seekers returning to Afghanistan. Amnesty International points out that the situation of the returnees is directly fatal and that the returnees must be stopped. According to Amnesty, Norway is among the countries that return most to Afghanistan.’ They further wrote: ‘The Presidency of Trondheim asks the Stortinget to resume its return policy in the case of Afghans as soon as possible and as a first step initiates a temporary stop in repatriation.’ All parties to the City Council, with the exception of the Progress Party, expressed concerns about the situation in Afghanistan. They also recognised and supported school students' involvement in the case. The right jump of the opinion when it came to the proposal for a temporary stop in repatriation, but also the right concerned the safety situation in Afghanistan. But, fortunately, another of today's government parties wholeheartedly supported the proposal to stop the sending of Afghan refugees. Since we presented the proposal that is being discussed today in the Stortingen on an immediate and temporary stop in the deployment of refugees to Afghanistan, there have been several warnings about the situation in Afghanistan. Nevertheless, today we do not get a majority to stop the broadcast. I think it's a shame. I am pleased that we get a majority to ensure that the government makes a thorough assessment of the child's best in each asylum case. But the Stortinget could today restore Norway's honor and humanity in these matters. We could take the constant warnings about the insecurity in Afghanistan seriously and let these refugees stay until we knew whether it was safe or not to send people to Afghanistan. I would like to thank all those who have stood by and are still in favour of a humane asylum and refugee policy. Their voices are still needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e813	I really need to say that I think there is a lot of vision and loose statements both in proposals and in the debate here, especially from SV – and Red has actually followed up well. When that's the case, it's basically just SV alone that has the sense of reality. They're going to defeat almost everything they're doing today – and that's very good. There is a joint committee that agrees that we are obliged to give protection to people who need it. There is a broad agreement on asylum policy here at Stortinget, and this is closely followed up by the government. Many of what SV is proposing today, the Storting has previously said no. I understand that there is a lack of confidence both in Stortinget and in the government from SV. This indicates that they do not trust the work being done in many ways. Abid Q. Raja from the Left was also involved in this, he expressed confidence in the authorities, and it's very good to hear. But SV doesn't trust the authority's security assessments. Even if Abid Q. Raja is in charge of improving Landinfo, there are a lot of countries that use Landinfo today, and that have confidence in the work they do. Neither does SV trust that the government assesses the children’s best – they do – and they do not trust that the government will comply with international law. I thought this was quite broken. It's an insinuation that Norway is breaking the international principles of international law, and I think it's sad. There is a lack of realism in the policy that the government, this country, is pursuing. When we discuss here today, SV says that the main reason for the challenges is that very many people are on the run. It is not necessarily that one is persecuted and, for that reason, is seeking asylum, but one is fleeing. It is the principle of the institution of asylum and the need for assistance and humanitarian aid that really mixes well. I agree with Engen-Helgheim from the Progress Party, who says there must be other ways to solve such challenges in the world. There are over 50 armed conflicts in the world today. Think of it, good hall and good president, if we had an open door policy for all the 50 countries where there is armed conflict today. This is simply not possible. I have great confidence in the government and in the government's assessments in this matter. The councils were also involved in this. There are opportunities to seek protection in Norway for humanitarian purposes, according to Section 38. The supported I give to the Council of State today is great – the way the government and the Council of State solve the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e824	If you're persecuted, you need protection. We're going to give protection to all those who are entitled to it. But at the same time: If you do not have a need for protection, you must be returned. The rapid return of people without having to stay is also necessary to preserve our asylum system. The right to apply for asylum is a fundamental human right. However, in order to ensure the functioning of the asylum system – that those entitled to protection receive it – we need good professional authorities dealing with applications based on all relevant legislation. It is not only national legislation that is relevant, but also all international conventions that we are bound by, among other things. the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Convention on the Refugees. On the other hand, we do not need politicians who interfere in the individual treatment of each case. The assessments taken by the non-resident authorities are concrete and complex. And in order for everyone to have a specific, individual and factual handling of their case, it still has to be up to the professional authorities to assess who is entitled to stay or not. If we leave it up to politicians to decide which countries are safe and not, we are at risk of politicizing the institution of asylum that gives us inconsistent decisions. I record that SV wants to draw closer to an inconsistent line because they do not trust the foreign agencies and the professional authorities to make these professional assessments. Thus, the SV will also address what provides predictability and by what gives each asylum seeker good legal certainty. But how far SV intends to go in terms of politicizing, we don't know. How far SV wants to go to give to all refugees from Afghanistan, we don't know either. On the other hand, it is clear what the government and the Right believe in immigration policy. We are taking a rough course, regardless of whether the arrivals in Norway and Europe are many or few. It is not difficult to understand that many travel to Norway to create a better life. Most people would have had a better life here in Norway than they have in their home country. It does not, however, give us an obligation to allow everyone to stay, because it will be at the expense of the sustainability of the entire asylum system, which also ensures that we have the opportunity to accept those who are actually entitled to protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e836	SV talks about age at the time of the decision. What I think is strange is that SV, when they themselves were in government and were responsible for asylum policy, did not want to change these provisions, which – I am aware – were exactly the same when SV was in government. The age was also taken into account at the time of the decision. The only difference is that today we have much shorter processing time, and therefore it is also much more reasonable to take into account the age at the time of the decision. SV has also shown in this debate that they do not trust the system, they do not trust any part of the system. One thing is that they don't trust the Progress Party – we can live with that – but I find it disrespectful to those who sit and work on these matters every day, and who have a lot of competence and knowledge, to get the distrust and suspicion from SV that they are trying, according to all the rules of art, to interpret themselves away from giving a stay in Norway even if there is a basis for it. That's not the situation, and I think SV should take it inward – they should think more about those who work on these matters, and the suspicion they expose them to. In fact, there is a big difference between Left and SV in these debates. Even if we're going to go to government with the Left, we're not going to be the same party. We have different party programs and opinions, but we're going to cooperate. What the left has said from this pulpit today is that they have confidence in the system, they have confidence in Landinfo, but they have some other priorities and want other guidelines. I think that's okay. We disagree, but we can continue to cooperate. It is also claimed that the reasonableness condition has led to fewer stays and more people being referred to internship. Yes, that is right, but it is not said that the removal of the reasonableness condition provides an unfair treatment. It might as well be that there was an unfair treatment before, and we're clearing that up with this government. We have returned most, but I think the hall should notice that we have also received most, based on the population in Norway. It is Sweden and Norway that have accepted most, so it is not unnatural – when so many come to Norway and seek asylum – that we also have to return more than others. It has nothing to say as to whether it is safe to return or not. I think we should express more confidence in the system than what has emerged in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e851	I hear that representatives Ørmen-Johnsen and Engen-Helgheim point out that there is disagreement between the parties only in the programmes, but that is not only in the programmes. On the day one after we've got a so-called new government, there's a full confrontation of government parties in between here in the staging room. It's interesting to notice that it's the beginning of it all. On day two, we have a Left standing up here and blaming the bulk of the population and continuing to refer to their primary positions – to get away from what they see as unpleasant. It's also interesting to notice. The left is on Stortingen's pulpit and says they're not sure about the vulnerability criteria. Yes, even the representative Abid Q. Raja says that it is not unreasonable to ask for the reasonableness condition to be introduced. So there is a representative of the government party on the Left here on the pulpit of Stortingen and says today, one day after you got a new government – very interesting. I understand that the Left has difficulties in agreeing with the Progress Party, which on previous occasions has referred to the Left as a'small customs party'. So I realize there are some challenges to making this work together. But now the Left itself has put itself in the government, they have put themselves in the responsibility position. They have to take the consequences of that. I will briefly read up from the letter that left, along with the other opposition parties on the Stortinget at that time, sent off the farm. Trine Skei Grande has signed. At the time she was the leader of the Left – she is so far yet – but now she is also the Council of State. It says: «The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party will stress that it is the government's responsibility to follow up the decision of the Stortinge.' Furthermore, it states that the letter sent by the Council of State to Listhaug in connection with the decision of 14 November, ‘makes the impression that the Council of State is unable to implement the responsibilities of following up the decision of the Storting. The questions break with the division of labour between the government and the Stortinget by withdrawing the Stortinget into the ongoing proceedings. This responsibility falls to the government as the executive.’» The left has signed that letter. When we hear the representatives of the Left here today, I have to say that there seems to be a little bit of chaos in the beginning of the mass, in order to be honest. I also have to ask that the Left stop running from the responsibility they have now assumed, and come up on this pulpit and actually stands for what they have now chosen to go into.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e872	This matter is about important things, not about the game here in the Chamber, nor about the false and untrue claims that both the Council of State and the Party of Advancement come here about the SV's policy, that, as later on, you will open up to everyone if you have a reasonable situation. I am quite shocked by part of what I have heard here today, because they do not relate to the truth and the facts in the matter. With regard to trust in the system, it is the government that has overestimated UNE in assessing how to interpret the Refugee Convention. The UN has been at hearings in the committee and says that we are breaking our obligations. Clearly, the government parties and the majority believe that – true to God, it doesn't matter. It's S.I.P.D. politicization was when you had the instruction authority over UNE, which the majority agreed to, but which they have now removed from God's law. politicisation is not to base the evaluation of the professional bodies on how we should fulfil our obligations, such as: in the case of the reasonableness condition. The Council of State confirmed in the line change with me: ‘This is politics.’ Yes, it is politics. Then SV believes that we must trust the professional bodies who tell us that we are not fulfilling our obligations with what we are doing now. SV has not said anything about Landinfo and that we do not trust them. On the contrary, if you had based Landinfos and all the other agencies' reports, you would have seen why you shouldn't change politics, as you've done. Before, when it was much safer, it was unsafe to send someone to internal flight. But now, when it has become much more dangerous and everyone confirms it – including UNE, UDI and Landinfo and all the international reports that exist say that there has become much more unsafe – it is said that it has become safer. Then we are at the heart of some of the things we are obliged to do, namely not to return to a place where there can't be effective protection. I want someone from the government parties to come up here and explain how Afghan authorities can protect someone who has no family, has no networks – nothing. It's authorities that can barely protect themselves from seas and international presence. There is no effective protection there. That's the problem. Then you need protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e879	One can hope that the next speaker, the representative Ørmen Johnsen from the Right, can answer some of the questions from the representative Karin Andersen. I would like to point out the great local commitment that has been many places in the country regarding the treatment of minor asylum seekers. At the gallery today there is a cross-political group from Hemsedal City Council in Buskerud. This municipality has about 2,000 inhabitants, and in 2015 they received 650 refugees in up to four. I think there are hardly any other settlements that have had greater density of refugees. At first, of course, it was a skepticism, but then something happened. People got faces and names, and there were simple stories behind them. The exposure resulted in the village getting up in a way and the front a new, more humane and evaluated treatment of asylum cases for minors. In a plug that went to all the storage representatives here in the hall, they write, among other things.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The November asylum settlement of the Grand Duchy has proved to include a small number of people and is of little importance in practice. Many of the young asylum seekers meet only 2 out of 3 criteria, so they are not allowed to take the matter up again. Force returns occur every week. In Hemsedal it has our reception for single minor asylum seekers, and the village has been familiar with many of the «October children». It makes an impression when young people fear their lives and flee to other European countries where they have to live on the streets. They see this as a better option than being forced back from Norway. Others hurt themselves or try to kill themselves in desperation. As a local populace, we think we have good reason to ask questions about the management of the «October children». Do the criteria take sufficient care of the individual’s mental health? Are they healthy enough to deal with the challenges that will meet them on return? Do they have the necessary networks, and how is their security in the area to which they are going to be returned? Our view is that today's asylum policy and practice towards this group are too strict and inhuman.' At that time, those who worked in the asylum recipients and close to the people had experience, among other things. up to six weeks waiting time – six weeks waiting time – for an asylum interview and up to 18 months of treatment for a single minor asylum seeker. Eighteen months! Then they set out a claim as a conclusion: the reintroduction of the reasonableness requirement and the reassessment of the cases to the «October children». It is a great commitment locally to a humane policy on the asylum front in Fridtjof Nansen's country.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e895	I feel no full confrontation between the Left, Right and Advance Party, as the representative Lauvås ironically claims it is. I remember that when the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre were in government, SV demonstrated in front of the Stortinget against its own government policy. We live very well with that. It could have been liberating if the Workers' Party used its minutes to talk about their own policies, but I feel that they are stuck in the criticism of others – that it is better to talk about it than what you want to do yourself. But the Labour Party can really just keep doing that. I want to stress that those in need of protection get it in Norway. There can be no doubt about that. You will receive it either on an asylum basis if you are persecuted in the country from which you have fled or on a humanitarian basis. In-depth assessments are carried out on each case. I feel that SV is talking as if no one is allowed to stay in Norway, and especially of the lone minor asylum seekers. That's not the case. Many people are allowed to stay, and most people who are allowed to stay actually get it on a humanitarian basis. Let it be the last word from me in this matter. Finally, I would like to stress that I have full confidence in the assessments made by the Directorate of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs. I do not think there is a need for an expert committee to review the country information section that we have and that actually has international recognition.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e904	You might be surprised when you hear Right-wing regret that the Workers' Party does not want to talk about its own policy, but is attacking the new government partners. But it's about a relationship. It's about the relationship between big business and government and how to understand it when you're part of a government. That's why that debate becomes interesting, even though it can be perceived as a game by too many. The issues we are discussing today, with all the facets they hold – both the human and the legal, the heavy assessments to be made, and not least the strong human stories – I think I'm going into everyone here in the Chamber. Something else would have been inhumane, and nobody wants to add up to an inhuman asylum policy. It is about, as the majority assumes, the sustainability of the asylum institution, precisely in order to preserve the right of those in need of protection. When you see the proposals that are underlying, and the way they've been promoted outwards, you can wonder if you're talking about the same thing, because you're even going to refuse people to go home voluntarily. It will be difficult to introduce if they have not been incarcerated or in prison but have wanted and sought asylum. If you change your mind, you have to keep the right to return. So there are proposals on the table today that you should not give that permission. It'll be hard for the Center Party to agree, because it's about restricting people's rights around the world, which, in our view, won't be a valid coin. I have looked a lot for when and where both UNE and UNHCR – the Foreign Affairs Department and the Refugee Commissioner – should have said quite specifically, in writing, that Norway is guaranteed to break international obligations. What we're told by the professional authorities and the government is not that we're breaking, but that maybe you're a little closer to the son. I think this debate would have served on whether you were dealing with the same facts, because these are difficult issues we are discussing, and it affects the fate of individuals. Then it's unusually important that we're actually precise when we're using different terms. The centre party is responsible for a humane asylum policy, but we must also ensure that the legislation we use is in line with the conventions to which this House has committed us. We're going to continue to do that, but we need to be sure that the basis of fact that we use in the future debate is also over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e917	The representative Karin Andersen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e922	Those documents are contained in the opinion on the removal of the reasonableness condition from UNE and there was also consultation within the Committee. I don't quite know if the representative Nordlund was there, but there was both UNICEF and the UN clearly that we have a duty to have a reasonable condition in our law. So we don't. Those who trust the UN should be too reasonable. So there are safety assessments that have changed dramatically despite the fact that it has become much more dangerous. I'm recording that no one's talking about it. So until all this game that you're now discussing here in the hall, and you even from the Right you can draw up who's in the lawn. Then I'm just reminded by the representative, Mr. Örmen Johnsen, that in the last growing-up period, even the top right of the lawn was standing, so I think that argument might have lost its value.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e929	The representative Stein Erik Lauvås has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e934	But Johnsen has no confrontation. She's been in the hall all day, as far as I've seen. She must have a set of very good earplugs if she has not got what has been said from this pulpit during the day. She thinks we have to spend time talking about our own policies. Then she points to the red-green time. If there's someone who's spent time talking about the politics of others, it's the Right and the Advance Party representatives. But there's still a question. The left-hand side of the Storting believes that it is reasonable to impose the reasonableness condition. The Right Party and the Advance Party believe that the opposite is true. There are not just some program formulations that you disagree with. The whole disagreement is brought into the hall. But perhaps the Council of State can clarify the situation – or maybe she can't.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e939	The representative Jon Engen-Helgheim has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e945	I have also been sitting in the hall all day, and I have heard some serious, good contributions from several representatives. I have also heard less good comments from some other representatives. The representatives who have not had the good posts are those from the Workers' Party who have only tried to play out a conflict between the Left, the Advance Party and the Right that does not exist. This is a matter which has been dealt with in the Committee long before the start of government negotiations. They've taken their positions, and now they're going to work together in government. There have been some dissenting views in this hall, because we're different parties. As I said at the outset – although we are going to rule together, we have not become the same party. It's going to show the Progress Party in the future. It's definitely going to show the left and the right as well. You don't have to be one and the same party to sit in government together. So this is constructed by the Working Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e950	I think I have to refer to my previous post, where I talked about dealing with the same facts. I also think I'm going to encourage people to read the setting itself, and not necessarily just relate to the debate, because there are many shades that you can't go into here. I stand in front of me with the UNHCR assessment. It was one of the things that we used in the committee when we did this evaluation, and that's of course also what the department has founded. There is no evidence that Norway has no right to impose any reasonable conditions, but it appears that it has an obligation to assess its reasonableness. This is where the disparity of assessments emerges – whether one has to have something called reasonable conditions, or whether new vulnerability steps, which we see to the extent how the Council of State intends to follow up on the future, are going to be comprehensive. That's what it's all about, and that's what the UNHCR says. I believe that the debate had been better on that we were dealing with the concrete, presented arguments, also from central consultation partners with good insight into the subject.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e955	It's very special to listen to the representative, Engen-Helgheim. Here we see in the Chamber today a very special sight, where those who stood in the Castle Square yesterday and had formed a government together, in the first case to be debated, disagree on a very central point in what has been the asylum debate – and then the representative Engen-Helgheim tries to blame the Workers' Party. I look forward to some interesting debates in this room in the future, because if it's still going to be the way that the different parties have some government positions and other positions in this room, it's going to be very interesting in the future. But I have faith that a government will be able to coordinate with its representatives in Stortinget before you get here, and that you can handle things there. I think this room would be worth it – at least the individual parties should be able to agree with themselves on what they have agreed to adopt in a government statement, and what they vote for in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e960	The undersigned has been accused of having ear plugs. I live so well with it. What I think is sad, once again, is that it's going to be the repeat button from the representative Lauvås. At the end of the day, what this matter ends with is a discussion about the Left, Right and Advance Party, and simply not about what the matter really applies. It's going to be the game, and that's what the Workers' Party is now going to add up to. We just have to take note of that. I also take note that the Labour Party finds it so difficult to deal with the fact that the Left has one programme, the Right has one programme and the Progress Party has one programme. We had those programmes in 2017, so in 2018 we got the Jeleya statement. That's where our policy is. If this is very difficult, then the Labour Party should read it, and then we should provide the clarifications that are needed to enable them to deal with the debate in the Chamber. Then I have to say that I hope we don't get this kind of debate anymore. Governments will present how the vulnerability criteria are interpreted in regulations. We are happy to do that, and then we are concerned that we treat the children that this matter concerns, with dignity and not get this sad game.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e967	No more people have asked for the word on the matter. 1 to 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e983	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, the opportunity be given to the replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government. In addition, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e994	There is a joint Committee of Control and Constitutional Affairs which is behind the comments made on this matter. In its handling of Document 3:11 for 2016-2017, the National Audit Office’s study on the impact of large investments in rail on the train offer pointed out that there is a broad political consensus that it is important that we have a well-driven railway. The rail transport policy objective is to provide an efficient, accessible and secure transport system. The Committee therefore welcomed the fact that the Riksrevision has presented a report to the Stortinget aimed at assessing whether the large railway investments have contributed to a more attractive train offer, to the extent that investments have contributed to reduced travel times, whether the train offer has been more robust, and to the number of flights for travellers has increased — from 2005 to 2016. The Committee agrees with the Riksrevision on increasing rail transport is important in order to achieve the objective of a more efficient and environmentally friendly transport system. It is also particularly important in view of the significant increase in railway investment, from 1.4 billion. NOK about 10 billion. kr annually during this period. The main finding of the National Audit Office is that significant impacts of investment are first achieved through major changes in timetables. Unfortunately, such changes are rarely implemented, and it is important to learn that these changes are implemented more frequently. The last fundamental change was implemented gradually in 2012–2015. The next route change is planned only in 2027, which is far too long in time. The changes in train provision have also not meant that the number of passengers by train has increased more than the number of passengers by car. The report also points out that the work on signalling installations and other measures needed to improve their performance has not been an integral part of the investment projects. The governance system has been designed to reduce the impact of investments to a small extent. It is important that railway investment leads to a significant improvement in train provision for passengers as quickly as possible. Through the climate communication and the climate agreement, Stortinget has agreed that the growth of passenger transport in metropolitan areas should be taken into account, inter alia. by public transport. It is therefore absolutely necessary that the investment should lead to a more attractive railway, so that more people really do want to travel by train. The National Audit Office also stresses in this report that the implementation of well-functioning signalling systems is very important. In all the major investment projects between 2005 and 2016, the Railway Agency has had challenges to put in place signalling facilities for the planned completion of the projects, which have delayed their progress. Operational signalling and securing systems are a means of completion of a project and of extracting the effects. The Committee agrees with the Riksrevision that the timely implementation of approved signalling systems is very important and that this will be followed up to improve the overall train provision. The Committee also agrees with the National Audit Office’s recommendation that the Ministry of Transport should ensure that the scheduling of the infrastructure is improved, that the Directorate of Railways and Bane NOR are well coordinated so that conditions affecting and increasing the impact of the investments are an integral part of the projects and that the large investment projects have clear, time-table and verifiable objectives for improving train provision. The Committee has noted the additional comments made by the Council of State on the Riksrevision's findings and comments, that the Council of State, in its response, is essentially in agreement with the recommendations of the Riksrevision, and that one will follow up the recommendations of the Unit Management Dialogue with the Directorate of Railways, the Owners' Management of the Bane NOR SF and the long-term planning of the sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e1019	The railway must be a competitive transport alternative. The train shall play an important role in the future, in particular for commuter traffic around the major cities and for freight transport between parts of the country. That's the cross-political agreement. Then it is very important that we get the most back for the money. Therefore, the railway reform is important, and therefore the Christian People's Party believes that the renewal of the railway is necessary. However, the National Audit Office points to some weaknesses in the impact of the increased investment. In recent years, a lot of money has been invested in the sector. This is due to the deliberate prioritisation of the cooperation parties – the Left, the Advance Party, the Right and the Christian People’s Party. That's an important priority. The railway sector must be given priority in order to meet the transport needs of the future. Much of what the Riksrevision addresses is that the impact of investment is first taken out by major changes in the timetables. Such changes are rarely implemented, and the Christian People's Party agrees with the National Auditor's assessments. Consideration should be given to the possibility of implementing root-line changes somewhat more frequently. So we know that these are complicated systems to get to go up, but it's now very long to wait for the next fundamental change. In this respect, the Ministry should examine the possibility of more frequent changes so that effects can be taken out more quickly. Railways are now given an historic priority. The Christian People's Party, the Right, the Advance Party and the Left have increased the appropriations for the railway by more than 50 pst., and for the first time in ten years the maturity is reduced. Railway customers will gradually experience a better offer. We get increased predictability, better material, more departures, and more new sets of vehicles are purchased than planned. The eight years of red-green managed, the maintenance crew increased by 1 billion. kr per year. This came at the top of a system that was already tearing away with old and degraded infrastructure. The accumulated backlog was more than 17.5 billion. kr when the non-socialist majority took over. Now the retreat is on its way down. This does not mean, however, that the Riksrevision findings should not be taken seriously, on the contrary. It is absolutely necessary to take seriously the Riksrevision's findings. Not least for all of us who want the railway to play a central role in the future, the findings have to be taken seriously. Of course, in order to achieve a good train offer, we need to ensure the best possible impact of the appropriations. Therefore, the findings of the Riksrevision are important and the report should contribute to learning. The Christian People's Party broadly agrees with the National Audit Office's description and suggestions for improvement. We also record that the Council of State takes a lot of the criticism, and he shows among other things. to ensure that the directorate is now working on the inclusion of projects in a comprehensive impact package in order to better benefit from the investment. That's good. Finally, one may wonder, of course, how the train offer had been with a lower level of funding or if a larger part of the cake had gone to road appropriations. Therefore, it may be unexplained to place too much emphasis on the fact that the number of passengers travelling by train should not have increased more than the number of passengers travelling by car. But I'm leaving it now, because in any case, we need to have a full focus ahead to translate the appropriations into concrete results such as the travelling brands, more frequent departures, more precise trains – yes, quite simply a better offer. That's the most important thing in the future now.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e1036	I want to boast that the Riksrevision is part of the railway policy. After all, we manage quite significant funds – 67 billion. kr, or something like that, for next year -- and we're talking about almost 20 billion. kr during the period under review. Of course, some of what is said is quite obvious, as it is often in every report. It says, for example.\t\t You can change the ‘In the opinion of the National Audit Office, an increase in the number of departures and/or a reduction in travel time will be seen to be of little benefit to travellers if the train is not on or off the route.’ We quite agree on that. Then there are some conclusions that can be summed up in many ways by the fact that responsibility is fragmented, that it is not an overall planning to get the gains – in a way – in port after an expansion. As an SV representative, it is then natural for me to ask questions about the railway reform in the light of these conclusions. I cannot fully imagine a reform – which is now to be introduced and is about to be introduced – where the fragmentation of responsibility is evident, and where the old responsibility, to put it that way, is divided into six to seven companies. I was very early – although I was not sitting in this room – skeptical of the fact that the rails and trains made everything in the mid-1990s. For what I'm registering is that those operating the train, those operating the trains, will depend very much on a reliable infrastructure, such as signalling systems, etc. We heard it as late as yesterday, at the hearing of the Transport Committee, that organisations such as the United States and Japan, for example, were involved. The Norwegian Locomotive Association and the Railway Association say that about 80 pst. of all delays due to infrastructure, signals, etc., and not those operating trains, i.e. to a large extent NSB. They're the ones who get blamed when something's wrong. I imagine that the development that is now taking place, with the fragmentation of responsibility, will exacerbate planning, overview planning, and not least that keeping the timbers in place in terms of punctuality and achieving what we want, according to our objectives. It might be nice to hear from the Council of State, when he is going to have his statement, if he does not see that the fragmentation that is taking place, in some context can actually make the matter worse, in the light of the report that is now available.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e1054	The state investment on the railway has been increasing over time, and only in the last four years has the railway budget gone up by almost 10 billion. kr. It's a crazy good bet to get an infrastructure that works better. A lot of what the Riksrevision points out, you're absolutely right. There has been too much piece by piece and division, there has been too little coordination, and we have not got the benefits that the railway can represent. I fully agree when the Christian People's Party here mentions, among other things. the main advantage of the railway is migration into and out of cities and goods on long distances. This does not mean that it is irrelevant in the other transport areas, but it is where it can be of the greatest benefit. We see railway projects that have been built over the last 10 to 15 years, as short sections with double tracks in Westfold, where one is unable to connect with better capacity at any point, which means that double tracks are more or less unused, because there is no use, but it was certainly very important politically right there and then to have it adopted. Then the piecewise and partial approach and the lack of coordination have made the taxpayers' money not used in a good way. Even though we can boast and talk nice about spending over 20 billion dollars. NOK just in the 2018 budget, it's not how much money we spend that is the goal, it's actually what kind of offers we can get. That is why today's government has given a very clear priority, and I think we have also given a very clear priority to the direction that the Riksrevision points out that we must: think about a long project, make sure that one connects the nodes together and not just build a little bit here and a little bit there. It is for one to have the effect quickly and to be able to set on multiple trains, multiple take-offs, higher frequency and increased robustness in the system that not a single-train delay will continue to impact the whole chain, but that one avoids that kind of impact. Therefore, the size of the amount is an important part of being able to have many projects in place at once. It's important to coordinate the projects, and the criticism here basically points back to what we've done before. It is therefore not an argument against a reform, but an argument for a reform, an argument that was actually pointed out by the railway sector professionals as early as 2011, when the then State Councillor Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa was ordered a report that pointed out that the organisation was too poor, the appropriations were too low, and that the railway could collapse. Despite the increased maintenance seat run every year until the government change. Despite this, there were no organisational changes in the railway sector. I believe that the reform we now have is the answer to a lot of what the Riksrevision points out, because we have set up a railway directorate that is just responsible for the overall coordination, the long-term vision, the planning of what is going to happen, and the coordination of who is going to run the railway to get the maximum use of it. The Directorate-General's management, as it used to be in the Railway Agency, says that with the organisation they now have, they will be able to do their job much better than they could in the old system, for responsibility and organisation are clearer than it was before. At the same time, we've created Bane NOR, which was mainly another part of the railway system, which also says they can do their problems better than they could before, because they've got a clearer responsibility and a stronger leadership focus on their part of it. It is not that the responsibility is divided a little here and a little there. No, the Railway Directorate has a clear responsibility, Bane NOR another clear responsibility. There is no duplication of tasks, as SV gives the impression. Just having a Bane NOR that is responsible for investment, that can coordinate its resources in another way, that gets a long-term approach to the market and can have multi-annual contracts instead of one year, enables us to get those effects out and see the projects more coherently. The fact that we now have long-term maintenance agreements also means that we are starting to eliminate the issue of maturity that the Riksaudition has pointed to both here and before. So it actually has an effect. The fact that there are several train companies on the track is nothing new. The flight train and the NSB have both operated on the Norwegian railway for a long time, and no one thought it was problematic. Is it problematic if the plane train now also takes a trip to Kristiansand by day? I don't think so, because it's important that those who own the railway are the ones who run which trains are where. Which color on the wagons is completely indifferent here, because unlike the road network, where anyone can drive at any time, wherever they want, the railway is a structure controlled by a train traffic controller, and that's what solves the challenges that, among other things, SV pointed to. So those issues do not exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e1071	Some funny tongues have said after the Riksrevision report came, that now there is no point in spending money on building a railway, because that does not work in any case. No, that's not how I read the Riksrevision report. But it's a challenge for all of us, for both the Stortinget, the Government, the Department and the Railways: we need to build more coherent railways. To see proof that it is wrong to say that there is no effect when you build the railway, it is just to take a trip at the stations between Lillestrøm and Asker, where trains are now running every ten minutes. People know there's a train running. Large sums of money have been invested in the Gardermobanen between Lillestrøm and Oslo and also in the new double track – yes, it is not so new anymore – that was built for Asker. There are built double tracks, the infrastructure is in place, and then the train offer, as I say, came with a high frequency. People know that trains go every ten minutes, the infrastructure is in order, the railway is in order, the signalling system is usually in order, and there are several trains running. Then people flock to the train. Go to the Lillestrøm station one morning, and there are plenty of people walking on the trains, who go very much more often than before. Well, it makes sense to invest in the railways, and it was right – what happened from 2005 onwards – to increase the investment budgets for the railways. It was a big bet. The railway investment budget was fivefold in a rather short time — even more money for railway appropriations through the National Transport Plan in 2009, even more through the National Transport Plan in 2013 and even more through the National Transport Plan in 2017. So we're using a lot more on the railroad than we've done before. Then, of course, we have to make sure that the route offer changes when we have built up new routes. It's a useful reminder from the National Audit Office. But we don't have to go very far back – just this fall there was a discussion about the Eastfold Railway, where we now spend large sums, 20-30 billion. kr, to build the new Folloban, and then at the same time there is no planned increase in train provision on the Eastfold Railway. It is clear that it has to be done permanently – when we develop new routes, of course, it has to be added at the same time to increased train provision.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e1082	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e1098	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be a replacement of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e1107	I would like to start by thanking the members of the Committee for a good and constructive cooperation. The Committee delivers a unanimous opinion on the Stortinget. In this management report, the National Audit Office has focused on the use of consultants in the country. The state spends a lot of resources each year on consulting services. In 2015, the cost of consulting was approx. 12 B.C.E. kr. This figure is not exact because the cost of this type of service is not recorded in own accounts. It's now working. The Directorate for Financial Management is in the process of developing a reporting tool to provide management with a better overview of the business’s use of consultants. That's good, because it's a big sum this is talking about. Government activities shall organise activities and work to achieve policy objectives. This includes, inter alia: have the necessary competences available to achieve the objectives set. The size has been decided in order to enable central government to choose private suppliers of goods and services on a free basis, cf. inter alia: introduction of the net VAT scheme in the country from 2015. The use of consultants is an important tool and covers the need for top expertise which is difficult and costly to build up internally in enterprises. In addition, the use of consultants will meet capacity needs where there is no need to employ permanent staff. The aim of this study has been to assess the country’s use of consultants and point to reasons why the country may not use consultants in a targeted and appropriate way. The aim has been to provide an overview of the scope of the purchase of consultants and the needs underlying the use of consultants. The investigation period is for the years 2014 and 2015. What emerges from the report is the following: the use of consultancy services in state activities is extensive and largely related to the modernisation of state administration. There is a great deal of use of consultancy services without adequate clarification of the needs and purposes of the services. There is a great potential in improving the process of purchasing and using consulting services. It is not well organised for the transfer of competences and the re-use of experience from previous consultancy. And: State enterprises can make better use of available support tools than they do. The Committee is committed to taking the findings seriously and recommends that the Council of State follow up the recommendations of the Riksrevision. The Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation has a general administrative responsibility for the purchase of consulting services in the state. The National Audit Office points to the importance that KMD actively contributes to the publicisation of the services of the Digitalisation Council, the Digit Adviser, the project methodology and other support being made known in government administration and used by the enterprises in the purchase of consulting services. It can contribute to a more strategic and targeted use of the consultancy services and more precise mandates for the consular summits, which in turn will make follow-up and evaluation of the consultancy services more systematic and targeted. The Committee is concerned that there must be a conscious use of consultancy services. Where state establishments need to purchase consultancy services, there must be a better and more efficient way to solve these tasks than to increase their own staffing. The National Audit Office also points to the importance of facilitating the transfer of the acquired competence to its own activities. Competence enhancement and replenishment are essential to keep up with developments, not least in technology and ICT, and in this area the state-owned enterprises are major consumers of consultancy services. The survey covers the years 2014 and 2015. Following a mandate from the government, the Ministry has launched, after 2015, several measures aimed at improving the efficiency of administration and helping to improve the purchase and use of consultancy services. Reference is made to the establishment of the Digitalisation Council in 2016, which will contribute to better governance and implementation of digitisation projects in the country. Reference is also made to the Digital Agenda for Norway, which calls for a ‘sourcing’ strategy in the development, management and operation of digital solutions in state-owned enterprises. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the Council of State is clear in its comments that it is the Ministry and the individual State activities that are responsible for their own use of consultants. The Committee shares the views of the Councils on the responsibilities of the departments of the State but would at the same time stress the importance of KMD’s responsibility for guidance and overall supervision of the disclosure and enforcement of the applicable rules. Therefore, in order to avoid any misunderstandings or omissions of responsibility, the Committee considers that it is appropriate to consider developing a clearer approach to the border and clarification between the responsibilities of the Ministry of Local Affairs and the responsibilities of each department.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e1135	I would like to start by thanking the case rapporteur for the work he has done. Then I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate the National Auditor on his re-nomination from Stortinget. I look forward to cooperation for the rest of this period. I would also like to take the opportunity to congratulate the State Council of Malta on its new responsibilities. That makes us probably not going to be particularly acute in the line changes today. But I think it is appropriate – when the Council of State starts on a new watch – to stress the signals that the rapporteur has made clear that although each department is responsible for archiving, it is a coordinating responsibility that rests on the Council of State and is of exceptional importance. The use of consultancy services is a problem when it is part of this process, for example: questions were asked to the Ministry of Defence – there is an indication in the Riksrevision report that there is a use of consultants in the order of 150 million. kr – and it turns out that the figure is probably 750 million. kr. It goes without saying that it underlines the need to have a common understanding of what the use of consultants is. What is very important in the Committee's common comment, I think, is to emphasise the issue of additional capacity. One thing is that one in conversion processes sometimes has to buy special skills, that's that understanding of. It should also be limited, on the basis that there is an advantage to the fact that some competence remains in the business, but it may be appropriate to use expertise. As far as additional capacity is concerned, we are starting to approach the important question here: is it that hiring labour to avoid a tight manning framework can make the economic result in the long term very, very poor? I think it is right – when, as I said, the Council of State starts on a new watch – to send with the signals that are very clear from an overall committee, that the coordinating responsibility lies with the Council of State, although it is of course difficult for the Council of State to follow up that job if not also the departmental departments do their part of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e1154	I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity to welcome Monica Mæland as a new minister. We've met before. We follow each other in the committee work, and I appreciate that. I would also like to thank the National Auditor for a good piece of work, which is valuable. Perhaps the most important thing you have found here is that one, despite the fact that one has wanted a more efficient use of consulting services in the state, has several examples, especially relating to ICT projects, that the result has been the opposite: large budget exceedances and, in too many cases, lack of goal achievement, which has cost enormously with money. Moreover, there is one evidence that lack of competence transfer in these projects further weakens the reorganisations that you have tried to get through and that, in turn, can create expensive dependency relationships with additional consultants. The Committee also points out what the state should do and what external consultants should do. This is also a problem that is being solved very differently from sector to sector, from enterprise to enterprise, and with a very different tendency, in order to use a diplomatic expression. This calibration, which is going to be between state and private actors, i.e. the optimal use of this, doesn't seem like the state is in the vicinity of finding a good solution, and I'm surprised that we still have so little to do with this work. These are issues that have already been pointed out in the first digital agenda, and are actually a problem setting one has been aware of at state level for decades. So getting a more optimal use of consulting services and clarifying what the state should do and what time it is beneficial to bring in developers from the outside must be a very important job for the new government council, Malta, and I have great expectations for her work to start up in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e1165	Thank you so much for a pleasant welcome in Stortinget, and for a little patience, so that I get the opportunity to get involved in the many things we have in the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernization. I also look forward to a good cooperation with Stortinget. In this case, Norway is facing some challenging developments. We see that we are going to have lower oil revenues, we have an ageing population, we have to facilitate the creation of new jobs in the private sector, and there are major technological changes at a huge pace. Therefore, the government is committed to having an efficient public sector. It also applies to efficient procurement and follow-up of consultancy services. The Committee states in its position that it expects KMD to follow up the recommendations of the National Audit Office, and we have already done so on a number of points. The Government established in 2016 the Digitalisation Council, which contributes to better governance and implementation of digitisation projects in the country. The Council shall issue annual experience reports, by November 2017 at the latest, and it shall be evaluated after four years. The government has also called for state enterprises to develop a sorcing strategy, inter alia. in the digitisation round and in the government’s joint ventures for 2017. On its websites, Divi has published practical advice on how to design sorcing strategies. Sourcing is a strategic decision on whether to solve a task with internal resources or whether to purchase all or part of the task from another business. In 2016, Divi published a new consultant on the purchase of consulting services. This has been adapted to a new procurement legislation. Divi has also given lectures on the supervisor and informed about it in the newsletter, and is planning a seminar on consulting services in 2018, where it will be briefed on the supervisor. But the purchase of consulting services can be an efficient use of public money. The government has, among other things: in the digital agenda for Norway, it was clear that the public should initially not do even what the market can do better and more efficiently. What we need to be concerned about – and here I fully share the Riksrevision’s view – is that the use of consultants must be managed, so that we can achieve the best possible results with the least possible resources. Activities need to know what they want to achieve and have clear frameworks and strategies for cooperation with external service providers. There is also, for example, a division of responsibilities between KMD and the sectoral departments of the administrative policy in general and through the use of consultancy services in particular. KMD has a coordination responsibility in the management policy, while each department and underlying enterprise is responsible for the use of consultants in its own sector. I am pleased with the unanimous vote, and I also agree with the joint comments made by the Committee on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e1188	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e1193	I share the committee leader's approach to this: that we should not raise sharp questions in this round. But this question I also think is appropriate to the competence of the Council of State from its former Council of State. It applies to matters relating to the ICT sector. There has long been criticism from Norwegian ICT companies that when it comes to public procurement, the use of ICT companies in Norway by the state has been too under-thought-out and too under-coordinated. And they've had a wish that one of the states has a much clearer line when it comes to calibrating, so that both can get the best possible public services and at the same time build a strong ICT industry in Norway. What are the intentions of the Council of State in this work? For the new Department of State Council will now govern, you will have a key role in this particular work, creating some standards.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e1198	I think I will answer very briefly today, since I have barely been in the chair for 24 hours and now I am working through all the cases and areas. But my starting point is quite simply: we are facing major technological challenges, both in the private sector and in the public sector. Then we have to make things as effective and as knowledge-based as possible. Therefore, our starting point from the government – as I explained – is that we should not build up our own skills in areas where it is in the market and where it can be used better and cheaper. Then we will facilitate the creation of those jobs in the private sector. But I think, as this is pointed out here, one debate is of course the scope of consulting, but the starting point here is that you have to know why you hire consultants, what you want, and what you want to achieve. And all the departments have to get a lot better at that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e1205	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e1223	At the request of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e1232	I would also like to thank the members of the Committee for their good and constructive cooperation in this matter. Here, too, the Committee delivers a unanimous opinion on the Stortinget. In this administrative audit, the National Audit Office has focused on the archiving and transparency of government administration. Public disclosure of the work of the administration is an important principle in an open and democratic society. Paragraph 100 of the Constitution establishes the right of access to the State documents and the obligation of the State authorities to facilitate an open and informed public conversation. The aim of this study has been to identify and assess the public record-keeping practices of central government and to assess the extent to which management facilitates transparency and transparency. In addition, the main reasons for lack of archiving, record keeping and publicity have been assessed. The investigation period here is the years 2014 to 2016. The National Audit Office’s study shows significant weaknesses in much of the State administration in both the archiving and the practice of the different provisions of the Public Prosecutor’s Act. What emerges from the report is: Archiving in several departments and state establishments is deficient. Archiving systems are not user-friendly, which is the main reason for insufficient archiving. There is a lack of record-keeping and incorrect record-keeping, which weakens public awareness of matters and the possibility of debate and control of administration. The ongoing record-keeping requirement is essentially not met. Pre-recording of documents is more than intended and often lacks a legally sustainable basis. Transparency requirements can be addressed in a better way. Assessments of transparency often fail. There's a lot here that it actually has to deal with. We live in a time of rapid and major changes in communication and processing. The government must adhere to and ensure good record-keeping and record-keeping procedures for documents which ensure transparency in the work of the administration. Archiving systems need to be adapted to the use of new technologies with digital solutions. Paper has been replaced by e-mail, SMS and other digital platforms in the documentation. Therefore, good systems and clear rules and procedures are important for what is to be archived and recorded. The archiving and record-keeping procedures need to be updated and adapted to the new everyday life we have, with e-mail, SMS and Facebook messages, and the systems need to be made simple and user-friendly. The Committee is committed to legislative compliance with the archiving and record-keeping practices in state establishments. To this end, the Committee recommends that the Ministry follow up the recommendations of the National Audit Office: The National Audit Office recommends that the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and the Ministry of Modernisation take the initiative towards the other departments in setting up archives services on the agenda, through internal training, guidance and the introduction of control mechanisms to help archive valuable documents. KMD should cooperate with the Ministry of Culture on the development of guidance material and a more user-friendly government archiving software. They should also cooperate with the Ministry of Culture on measures to shorten the average reporting time. KMD should also ensure that the Ministry of Justice and Security implements the necessary measures to strengthen knowledge of the correct use of prior exemptions. KMD should also take initiatives towards the Ministry of Justice and Defence in order to improve compliance by central government with the principles and requirements of the Public Health Act. The Committee is pleased that the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation is taking the study and findings seriously and that she will use the recommendations as important input into the continuous development and improvement work in this area. In its feedback, the Council of State refers to three cross-cutting actions that are in progress or are in the process of being launched: The Directorate for Administration and ICT, Divi, develops training courses that are additional to the department's own training provision. Divi is also developing Public Electronic Postal Record, which will be in operation from 1 January 2018. Governments will also follow up the need for better user functionality in the work on a new version of the current case and archive system. In this case, the Council of State is also clear that it is each department with a separate responsibility to comply with the requirements for archiving, record-keeping and the processing of transparency in its own activities. The Committee also shares the views of the State Council on the responsibilities of the Ministry of Trade, but would also stress the importance of KMD’s responsibility for guidance and overall responsibility for overseeing the publication and enforcement of applicable rules. Therefore, in order to avoid misunderstandings in this area as well, the Committee considers that it is appropriate to consider developing a clearer rise in borders and clarifying the responsibilities of KMD and the responsibilities of each department.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e1306	Thanks to the rapporteur for the work he has done. There is a unanimous vote here. This is, in fact, a very important matter relating to the whole of Norwegian democracy. I would like to underline what is at the end of the setting, that we are looking forward to new assessments from the Riksrevision regarding the upcoming Document 3:1. Although it is true that there are, of course, several state councils responsible for their field of action, I would like to stress the coordinating responsibility of the Council of State in this matter, as in the previous case. I could say that should there be equally critical comments next time we get a report from the Riksaudition, so it is the current Council of State that has to answer for it, even though there are many departments that are going to archive. I think this matter is particularly relevant, because in the short period of time this control and constitutive committee has existed, we have had a case related to Minister of Fisheries Per Sandberg where there was obviously a error in the reporting: it had been received by e-mail on private e-mail. It is sorry and cleaned up and shall be in order. But we are now dealing with a matter in the Committee on Statistical Central Bureau, which throughout the course is marked by a lack of documentation from meetings where there is supposed to have been clear guidance signals, and difficulties in obtaining reports, such as its protocols, from meetings that are described as crucial. It proves that this is no problem that was before; this is a problem that we live with every day. That is why I would like to stress to the new Council of State that this is an area we are going to follow very closely, because here we are talking about the possibility of transparency, access to transparent procedures and the ability of democracy to function, both in the relationship between government and greatness and, of course, in many cases – in relation to the so-called fourth state power, that the media and the public should have the right to have insight into what we are doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e1315	Just a short comment from me. I thought both the case spokesperson and the committee leader had a good deal to say about this. This is a very decisive part of democracy Norway, and found to the Riksrevision is alarming, I believe, for anyone who has a democratic device for life. For example, there's a big problem that there's delays, that you might be waiting to archive important things, etc. - One can only speculate. It's a big problem that we haven't set up a very clear ground plan to be followed by absolutely everyone, and that isn't subject to different types of assessments on different types of issues. Archiving and openness around it is something that just shouldn't be touched on, and there must be very clear rules, so that there are not so different kinds of practices from the department to the department that there are doubts about the use of archiving services. We have a lot of things. We have one thing that we are now doing in the Control Committee, which is about one of the major problems. Many of the themes that we should have gone into there are very difficult to go into because there is nothing written about. We also have the cases referred to by the committee leader, which is about the use of private e-mails and the lack of record-keeping of processes, where it was only by chance that this occurred, through a person with the same name in a neighbouring country. So this should be a warning lamp for all of us. The goal must be to establish a very clear practice here, which goes across the ministry. Therefore, I thought it was a little voracious for the committee when the answer from the Council of State is that this is also a pulverized responsibility. This means that it is difficult to find someone who is responsible for coordinating this work in the government, and it might also illustrate some of the problem. So for my part, I think it's going to be a major task for the control committee to be very clear and follow very closely on all such matters, and not least emphasize the seriousness of such a weak system.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e1326	I agree that this is a very important and useful review, because it is about transparency in the public sector, and the report has definitely several learning points. Transparency is a very important prerequisite for the high trust that is an important part of Norwegian democracy, as the chairman of the committee stated. The National Audit Office states that Norway — with the Public Electronic Postal Journal — is ‘the first to make public records available and to facilitate the transparency of the press, researchers and the general public at large’. However, the National Audit Office’s study shows that administration has challenges related to document record-keeping and transparency practice. Transparency is a management responsibility, and each department is itself responsible for complying with the requirements for archiving, record-keeping and the processing of transparency requirements in its own activities. Various measures are required to follow up the criticisms of the National Audit Office and to achieve the objectives of the Administrative Act, the Archiving Act and the Public Procurement Act. Several of them have already been decided, while others require planning and coordination. The transition to electronic processing has fundamentally changed the way in which information is produced, stored and exchanged. Much of the information provided by establishments is not captured by traditional archive solutions. Therefore, on 1 September 2019, the government set up a public sample for a comprehensive revision of the Archive Act, with a deadline of 1 March 2019. The selection shall include, inter alia: assess the documents to be archived, the activities that should be covered by the record-keeping obligation and the current regulation of the record-keeping obligation is appropriate. The Ministry of Culture has commissioned the Swedish Archives Agency to develop guidance material on record-keeping and record-keeping. The material shall be available for use in the diffis e-learning programme and other records and record-keeping training. The Minister of Culture, the Minister of Justice and the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation are planning actions and relevant training measures to facilitate the exercise of record-keeping, record-keeping and transparency by administrative staff. A new solution for the Public Electronic Postal Record will provide better and more efficient transparency functions and facilitate the publication of documents in addition to the public records of the establishments that wish to do so. I repeat that I believe this is an important matter. We have to follow up. I am pleased that we have a unanimous position, and I also agree with the comments made by the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e1346	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e1351	We are very aware in our committee that we are going to look back, look at what has happened, just as the Riksrevisor does in his reports. I still allow myself a little thought: what strikes me when we talk about this is that we're jumping for old routines. How are we going to deal with it in a slightly newer world? What I think is very important now – and I was in a meeting yesterday morning where political leadership in the department was also present – is to think new. We talk a lot about how to deal with old systems, but the world changes, the forms of communication are completely different, the sharing of information is completely different. I think it'll be important in the further work, to see how a person meets what are new forms, which one might not have used for now, or is fully aware of how it works today. I have great faith that this will be followed up when there is now such a thorough job in the departments.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e1358	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e1374	At the request of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e1383	I would like to start by saying that the document we are about to deal with is a very good study of the importance of the Riksaudition's work – and, to some extent, we hope, the work of the Control Committee as a follow-up to it – because the document starts with the fact that in all eight cases that have been dealt with earlier, it has actually led to it, where changes have been requested from the departments. As regards the National Audit Office’s study on the Management of Maritime Management 2011-2012, the National Audit Office’s study on Norwegian aid to the health sector in Malawi 2012-2013, the National Audit Office’s study on the management of the Organisational Guarantee 2012-2013, the National Audit Office’s study on the control of VAT by the tax authorities 2012-2013, the National Audit Office’s study on the Management of Grants in the Norwegian Cultural Council 2012-2013, the National Audit Office’s study on grants for natural and outdoor diversity 2012-2013, the National Audit Office’s study on effectiveness and achievement of results in the Directorate of Health 2013-2014 and the National Audit Office’s study on efficiency in the concession treatment of renewable energy 2013-2014. I think it's right to stop by it, because this shows something that's part of the everyday life of Norwegian society, and as the Riksvisor has pointed out to us new ones in the committee, that very much in Norwegian administration is going well, and what's not going well is being talked about, and then it's largely cleaned up. I think it is right to stop at first – as regards the document we now have – because it is often focused on the issues where criticism or impatience are promoted or undesirable realities are charged. But then the National Audit Office's study of the state's work on CO 2 management is still a matter to which the Committee has comments. We agree with what the Riksrevision says, that here we have not achieved the objectives that the Stortinget has said, neither what the Scientific Committees have discussed – but also in plenary – nor in Document 3:14 for 2012–2013, where the previous Committee on Control and Constitution had its clear comments, which were adopted in the Stortinget. It has been pointed out by the Riksrevisor, and of course it has been pointed out by the Department, part of the follow-up that has been made, but an overall committee is impatient that a preliminary objective of CO 2 management has not been achieved and that it has been realised. There is a majority comment and a minority comment in the vote. There are some nuances, where the majority of five members are probably somewhat more critical to the follow-up and progress of the ministry in setting up a funding model than the minority – which is also five. But I think the main conclusion is that we essentially agree that we should point to the expectations of a state involvement and the follow-up of the ministry, with a view to moving forward on a matter that is important to the country. Then I hope in this matter as in other matters – in addition to coming back to it in the Control Committee – that, through its ongoing work on matters for which they are dealing, through budgetary procedure and on other occasions, of course, that matter is closely followed up, on its professional basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e1404	I would like to take this opportunity to comment on the one administrative audit project that is being continued. The work on CO 2 management has had a long and demanding way to where we stand today. It's something not least the previous, red-green, government got experience, linked to Mongstad. When we took over in 2013, it was important to take this lesson into account in the further work. A strategy was therefore put forward, which was enshrined in the Stortinget. We have been dedicated to working with industry and from a good industrial practice. In practice, we have stoned our new full-scale CO 2 management project. The aim is to end with a project that contributes to the development of CO 2 management as a global climate action. In line with that strategy, we have been working on ideas and potential studies. These show that it is technically possible to create a flexible CO 2 management project or a chain in Norway. On the basis of this, concept studies for catch and transport were carried out in 2017 and conceptual studies were started for stock. This last study will be completed in the summer. Now you work with a complete proposal related to full-scale CO 2 management, which will be promoted for Stortinget in the RNB 2018 treatment. It is important to go to the Stortinget with this now, because we need to have a solid anchor for a project that will take a large part of the action space in the annual budgets ahead, whether it is to be realized this way both government and magnification have had clear ambitions about. In its 2012 study of the state's CO 2 management work, the Riksrevision landed at a clear criticism of the previous government's handling of Mongstad. I also note with satisfaction that the Riksrevision believes that the Ministry of Oil and Energy has followed up many of the recommendations that were made, linked to reducing the operating costs of the Technology Centre in Mongstad and linked to the setting up of a new Technology Centre at Mongstad with industrial partners consisting of Statoil, Shell and Total. In addition, the agreement has been notified to the ESA. Risk management both in the department and in our company Gassnova has improved, and we have established a legal framework for CO 2 management. We fully agree that we are not in one point. We agree with the Riksrevision, and we agree with the Committee that the commercial framework for full-scale CO 2 management is not yet in place. The work on the financing model is an integral part of the progress of the full-scale project towards an investment decision in Stortinget. First of all, it is about finding a model that allows the first project to be realized. Then you will have to work on finding business models for future projects, including: based on the lessons learned from this first project. In the further work, it is absolutely crucial to reduce the State financial contribution to CO 2 clean-up or capture, transport and storage, so that models can be found that help us to have a commercial activity, a profitability related to this area of activity. With regard to the comments contained in the document, it is good to be impatient and, overall, presented to us now at Stortinget, we will also look at the progress plan. It is pointed out that the job has been too slow to reach the decision-making target in 2019 and, if necessary, the start of full scale CO 2 management projects in 2020. I would like to stress that in this project it is extremely important to follow the industrial cycle and use the time needed to get good ideas and potential studies, concept studies and pre-projecting, before landing on a final investment decision, both with the commercial players, the industrial players in this project, and with the state. It is an important success criterion that we are now using the time needed to ensure that the project has the quality of its quality assurance and that we can support both the economy and the implementation of this major and important project for both Norway and the world climate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e1453	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e1458	When can we expect to get a case on the financing model for full-scale capture and storage of CO 2?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e1466	In the overall presentation with which the government will come to the Stortinget, at the latest by RNB 2018, this theme – related to the financing model, business potential – will be part of the basis. But I would like to stress that the Stortinget will be invited to decide during this session, primarily how to proceed with pre-projecting related to the capture part of the CO 2 full scale project – if you want to go further, and in the case of how many of the three catch actors that have now delivered their concept studies. At the same time, we will provide a solid review of the status of the project, both concretely about what we now have of knowledge relating to the capture providers, transport and storage, and in an international perspective, to put this into a larger setting. There is no doubt that Norway has a leading position and ambition to continue to take a leading position in CO 2 management globally.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e1477	It is very good that Norway should be a tenant, but then we have to get on the path with a model. I did not get hold of it when we can expect to have the whole model in place, so that one can get on track by establishing a full-scale facility by 2020. Can the Minister deepen when this model is in place and we can get started with this work, if we're going to be world leaders?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e1482	As I said both in my post and now in the line change, we are constantly working on the funding model, both for this first full-scale demo project that we are talking about here, and how this can be commercialised in the continuation. The challenge, as the representative may also know, is that today. there is no commercial basis in the market to operate with the type of CO2 capture, transport and storage we are talking about here. In the case of the EU ETS, the CO2 allowance price is too low that it is commercially profitable to drive this type of project. In the first phase now with the full-scale demo project, which we are talking about here, the state share of the funding model will probably be significant, and then you have to work gradually both to reduce costs with technology and to build a commercial basis for future projects. There is also an important learning process for us and the industrial actors in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e1487	It's the parts that decide whether this is profitable or not. But I'm actually just trying to clarify what the time horizon is here. The size has been said by 2020. Do we want to reach that?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e1492	In general, we presented to Stortinget this spring, we will come back to a final timetable. It's kind of dependent on the way forward whether we want to reach 2020, or whether we can get a little shift. In any case, it is important for the government in terms of this large project, which will require significant investment – it is suggested in terms of 3 to 4 billion. kr in the year of the deployment phase – to anchor it well in Stortinget at the start of a new expansion period, as it will bind up so much of the economic space in the years ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e1498	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e1512	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e1521	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party the proposals No 2 and 3, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 2 and 3 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government requests an immediate and temporary suspension of all assisted return and forced return of asylum seekers to Afghanistan until an independent expert committee has carried out an open assessment of legislation and practices in these cases and has assessed whether the exercise of the powers of Norway is in line with Norway’s Convention obligations. An independent expert committee must present assessments and proposals for changes to the system used by the non-resident authorities for the decision and transparency of land assessments in return. The Committee is also invited to submit any proposals for amendments to the legislation ensuring that the returns made do not conflict with Norway’s international obligations.’» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is immediately asked to initiate the establishment of independent and effective supervision of forced return of asylum seekers under the EU Return Directive.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e1556	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the setting up of an independent expert committee to carry out an open assessment of legislation and practices on returns to Afghanistan, including whether Norway’s exercise of its powers is in line with Norway’s Convention obligations. An independent expert committee must present assessments and proposals for changes to the system used by the non-resident authorities for the decision and transparency of land assessments in return. The Committee is also invited to submit any proposals for amendments to the legislation ensuring that the returns made do not conflict with Norway’s international obligations.’» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e1580	The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e1596	During the debate, Karin Andersen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Decisions to the law amending Law No 15 May 2008 35 on the access of foreigners to the kingdom and their residence here I [[introduction of reasonableness conditions for internal flight]] The Foreign Affairs Act is amended as follows: Paragraph 28 fifth paragraph is replaced by the following: The right of recognition as a refugee referred to in the first subparagraph shall not apply if the foreigner can obtain effective protection in parts of the home Member State other than the territory from which the applicant has fled and it is not unreasonable to refer the applicant to seek protection in those parts of the home Member State. II The law shall enter into force immediately’. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e1639	The Socialist Left Party, the Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e1655	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No 2, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the government to amend the foreign regulations so that it is the age of the lone minor asylum seeker at the time of arrival that is essential for the assessment of residence in line with the foreign regulations § 8-8.» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e1681	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the Government to amend the regulation for the practice of Section 38 of the Foreign Affairs Act, cf. the foreign policy § 8-8. The following vulnerability criteria need to be clarified in a new regulation: have health problems affecting daily functioning; are particularly vulnerable due to past care failures, abuse or exploitation; has a particular need for stability and continuity, for example after a long time of flight; have no family/networks capable of providing support and/or resources for return; and has a weak connection with the home Member State due to several years of stay abroad. The regulation must ensure that these criteria are given greater weight than in the past when dealing with the cases of single minor asylum seekers.’;» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e1732	Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e1740	The Christian People's Party has announced subsidiary support for the suspension. The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-18.ana.ud63e1841	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
