ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e58	The called alternate of the Akershu County, Solveig Schytz, now takes the seat. Two permit applications are available: by the Socialist Left Group on sick leave for the representative of Mr Nicholas Wilkinson from 22 May onwards and until further notice, by Højres Storingsgruppe on the study leave of the representative Stefan Heggelund on 23 and 24 May On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Sheida Sangtarash For the Province of Oslo: Mats A. Churchbirkeland
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e101	Sheida Sangtarash is present and will take the seat. The representative, Tuva Moflag, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e109	On behalf of the representatives of Ingvild Kjerkol, Tore Hagebakken, Elise Bjørnebeck-Waaagen, Tellef Inge Mørland and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative on measures to reduce the incidence and mortality of pectoris.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e114	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox The President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 1 and 2 are treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e149	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a change of line of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e158	Sometimes it becomes a little ritual courtesy to thank the Committee for a good cooperation etc. This time it's really in place to thank from the bottom of the heart for the understanding and goodwill that members of the committee have shown in dealing with a very large and complex matter in a very short time. Norway has been a driver of EFTA cooperation in order to implement this legislation as soon as possible. We can do that now. It reduces the risk of further delays in the implementation of this legislation and reduces the risk of a gap between Norwegian law and EU law, which could be extremely damaging to Norwegian citizens and Norwegian actors and damaged Norwegian interests. As rapporteur of the case, I will be the first to admit that it is not optimal with such a rapid procedure as it has been provided for here. The proposition could probably have been presented in favour of something earlier than what it was, but when it first came to our table when it did, I believe that the situation has been handled well and properly by the committee. I both believe and hope that the members of the Committee have received the assistance and clarifications necessary in the handling of the cases. In terms of political content, we are in the happy situation that there has been no major disagreement. In fact, there has been a pretty big consensus that the policy to which this is added is very, very good. It is the case that all citizens of both the EU and Norway are now receiving enhanced privacy. Personal data handling authorities and actors are now subject to stricter requirements in order to handle this with caution. It's absolutely necessary in the time we're now in. The protection of personal data as gold is in many ways a sign of civilization, and it is a quality sign of a legal state. The EU and Norway have now established a gold standard that I believe the rest of the world will follow in their data protection legislation. The EU Data Protection Regulation and today’s legislative changes are not a fasit or a – we’ll say – end station. But it's a framework, and it's a beginning. It is now time to give this legislation a more detailed content. The way forward is therefore quite impossible to predict 100 pst. The road must be there while we go. This will be done in close cooperation with EU bodies. The government will probably need to make regulations and adjust the law along the way. It is also the responsibility of the Data Protection Authority in the future, not only in the role of control authority, but also through information and guidance for those who need it. Data protection simply needs to strike the balance between effective enforcement of the legislation and ensuring that Norwegian practice does not become too square and rigid. We don't have to become more Catholic than the Pope. We must respect the complexity of legislation, especially at an initial stage. In particular, these actors who like to have less resources to get involved in detail. If Norwegian practice goes out of hand with the rest of the world, we are in the ultimate consequence at risk of a competitive disadvantage for Norwegian operators. We have to avoid that. I am sure that this balance will be able to find the Norwegian Data Protection Authority in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e173	This is a good day for privacy, because the decision we are making today will strengthen the privacy of all consumers in Norway. We live our lives on the Internet, we shop there, we register when we take a jog tour, we check in, we download more and more apps and we create more profiles. That's how we want it, but it has its price. Because even if a lot on the web is free, it costs anyway. Facebook, Tinder and others use the information we give, among other things, to make money. They share the information with others, including the cost of privacy for some of us. Therefore, we as consumers need better protection than we do today. In meeting strong market forces and large international companies such as Facebook and Google, we need international legislation to be able to protect privacy for people better. We are now getting it through the legislation of the EU. We have had very short time to deal with this matter, and I think it is unfortunate for the committee to deal with such a big matter in such a short time. Here the government should have come to the Storting at a much earlier time. But we agree, because it is a rule that we want to come into force as soon as we can, for the benefit of people. It is enough that many people here have received e-mails and text messages recently from Hernes & Mauritz, Apotek 1, NAF or who it might be that they now need to update their privacy information. I may have revealed a little bit of where I'm dealing, but this is what this privacy regulation says. Many companies are already in the process of providing better privacy for consumers. That is good, and it is time to strengthen privacy in Norway also through a common regulatory framework in Europe. I don't think many people are aware of how vulnerable we are to social media and digital services. Many people here have probably experienced downloading an app with more or less two kilometers of user terms and we have to read through before we can download the app, and this means that a lot of us are providing a lot of unnecessary information. This option is now being strung in, for example, so that you can give an informed consent. The judicial fraction of the Labour Party recently had a meeting with Finn Myrstad and Gro Mette Moen in the Consumer Council. They have a very good overview of the challenges and the level of privacy in Norway. I just want to take one example that actually illustrates how bad it is: if a user uses the Tinder app, for example, which I think is a lot of people do, then the default Tinder option has been to automatically share all the images on their mobile phone – by default. This should not, of course, be the case, and there is also something that the EU's data protection regulation is now tightening up, clearing up, and new demands are coming to prevent a person from giving up more data than is necessary. We already have a privacy law in Norway, but he's not good enough. The EU regulation and the changes we are now making as a result of what is happening in the EU make it much better, but it will require much more capacity from the Data Protection Agency, which, in addition to following up on compliance, will also be able to guide, just as the Justice Committee received quite a lot of input during the hearing. Several have also said that the Data Protection Agency currently has too short arms without a pan-European regulatory framework. Now, the Data Protection Agency is getting longer arms and greater opportunities to follow up matters that are important to you and me. Social media and online borders do not exist, and it has made privacy and the ability to complain about eradicating or correcting problems for consumers. That is why a single European regulatory framework, supervision and cooperation in this area are a great advantage for all of us. Finally, I would just like to mention that today we are dealing with a pre-consent to include the privacy regulation. I would like to highlight in my remarks that if the final decision of the EEA Committee were to deviate significantly from the draft attached to the proposal, the matter would be referred back to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e192	Privacy is a fundamental right. All people have the right to the protection of their personal information, privacy and privacy. There are rights that we need to protect on behalf of individuals, but also because it is one of the pillars of a well-functioning democracy, like ours here in Norway. The centre party is committed to ensuring strong privacy, and we are positive to legislation that strengthens privacy and is up-to-date in line with societal developments. Nevertheless, there are several aspects of the matter we are dealing with today, which we are critical of, and which means that we believe the matter has to be postponed and submitted to the Stortinget for a new treatment at a later stage. The Committee, as the rapporteur pointed out, has had a very short time to deal with this matter, which is both comprehensive, complex and demanding. We understand that there has been extensive work on the proposition, but we still believe that the government should have submitted the proposal to the Stortinget at a much earlier date if the wish was to have the matter resolved before the regulation applies in the EU Member States on 25 May this year. We believe that the short term is particularly critical in a case that adds to Norwegian authority’s refusal to the EU, which, on a general basis, the Centre Party believes needs to be thoroughly addressed and which must not happen unless it is strictly necessary. The Data Protection Act cannot enter into force until it has been incorporated into the EEA Agreement by decision of the EEA Committee and it will not become part of the EEA Agreement until all EFTA countries in the EEA have given their agreement. The Icelandic everything president was last week at a meeting in Stortinget and said the matter would probably not be settled in Iceland until the autumn. This means that Norway can and should also take longer to deal with this important matter without delaying the entry into force of the EFTA countries. We are critical of the choice of a one-pillar model for the regulation. It violates the two-pillar system of the EEA Agreement, where the EU countries and the EFTA countries must be separated. The proposal for a new personal data law has been submitted without the data protection regulation being in line with texts to be agreed by the EU and EFTA in international law within the EEA Committee. We think it is very unfortunate that the Stortinget should take decisions before we have the final text presented to us, and when we do not have guarantees that the EU will accept any changes that may be decided on in the EEA Committee. The Data Protection Regulation establishes a transnational supervisory system where a new EU Data Protection Council is to be at the top. That Council will have the power to take decisions which bind the Data Protection Authority as a national supervisory authority, but the Data Protection Authority will not be a full member of the Data Protection Council with voting rights. The EFTA Surveillance Authority is not established as an intermediary to take so-called copy decisions, which have been practices in the past. With regard to the material content of legislation, we are largely in favour of the changes that exist. Nevertheless, we believe that the regulation is unclear on several points and that the proposition has not adequately assessed the consequences of some major changes. We are concerned that the regulation could have a distorting effect on competition that favours established, large and international actors rather than small players because they could have problems adapting to the new legislation and have extensive financial and administrative costs to comply with it. We will also refer to the consultation opinion of the Norwegian Data Society, which, at the consultation in Stortinget, stated that waiting for the introduction of the Regulation to be implemented to a wider extent would not cause serious problems. I'd like to take up the proposal of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e213	The representative Emilie Enger Mehl has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e218	There are many proposals that come from the EU, which are not always so good, although it is important both for us consumers and for business. But if something is positive, the matter we are going to deal with today is because this new data protection law is going to strengthen privacy. We know that with a common data protection code that is common across the EU, it is good both for Norwegian citizens and not least for Norwegian business. As the representative of the Workers' Party was about, there is a lot going on in the digital world in those times. We've seen that it's all the things we're agreeing to and accepting with Apple, we've got a lot of people walking around with a training clock, and it's miles of instructions and things we're going to say OK to get on with it, and we're not sure what it is we've given out of information. There I think we all have a responsibility to be sure that we get into what we agree to, but at the same time we know that it can be much shorter to get this out from business. Many people experience that they have lost control of their personal data, so it is important that we now put in place the new personal data law. It'll be important to everyone. I am pleased that the government is getting a lot of support for this, but it is nevertheless important that we take with us what came out at the hearing. There is a need for a lot of guidance and information to be put in place, especially towards businesses, which is also important if we are to take this work with us. There has been a lot of positive in the EU to protect us consumers – we have got better complaints, and now this comes – because we know that the future is that we are acting across borders and that we are using much more digital platforms for those services. It is then important that privacy is also safeguarded. It will be with the new law that Stortinget agrees to today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e229	Personal data has changed their status for the last 20 years. In Silicon Valley, you talk about personal information being more important than money, and you do everything in your power to get the maximum amount of personal information possible. It is in many ways the business model of the new economy that is being developed there. It could have been a back ground for the things we have today, while we know that the changes we are now making in legislation will probably also come to a close when it comes to dealing with the really big problems that relate to personal information. SV does not disagree that there is a need for stronger and clearer rules on privacy in Norway, in Europe and globally for that reason. These are issues that really need global solutions. It is very important to have much stricter rules relating to privacy. In such a perspective, it is a pity that the matter was delayed and in reality has been dealt with urgently by the Committee and the Storting. The concrete, material proposals in this matter are largely in agreement. There are several different cases of how large companies that live by selling market information, such as Facebook, have published too much of the information they have collected about us. We are some in that we must avert that for the future, and that part of these proposals will contribute in that direction. The problems are not the substantive rules and changes in themselves, which are presented by the EU regulation and therefore proposed in the Norwegian law. The problem is that the Storting must once again accept association with a body where we ourselves cannot agree to decide, and that we should vote in favour of a negotiated outcome that we do not yet know whether we have or not. The first problem is that the rules come with a link to a new EU body, the Data Protection Council, which may take binding decisions on Norway’s data supervision outside the usual system of the EEA Agreement. That means that we are once again subjecting our decisions to a new EU body without the right to vote in the body. We thus have no control over developments or the specific issues where Norway can be involved in different disputes between countries. The second problem is that such a regulation has been presented to the Stortinget without the amendments negotiated in the EEA Committee. This may be because today we do not know whether the EU will accept the changes, but we are in a situation where we do not know whether this is the final result, we do not know what happens if the EU does not accept the changes, and it creates an unsustainable uncertainty about the whole process of collapse of a law where it is unclear what the situation will eventually be like. We also know that, for example: Iceland has not started the work on this law. So the need to deal with this a little bit more quickly becomes special. For this reason, we have proposed that the government return to Stortinget with a new proposal where the material proposals are the same, but without reference to the regulations and the establishment of the consistency mechanism with the Privacy Council. We think this is completely unproblematic all the time when Iceland hasn't even started the treatment of the regulation. So we have more time than the government has laid the groundwork for Stortinget. So second of all, today there are several major multinational actors that collect and process a lot of personal information globally and from people in Norway. Here we find close to monopolises like Facebook and Google. They also offer services that the public uses more and more – campaigns from the public that are only on Facebook or Instagram, which are also a company owned by Facebook. This makes it difficult for us as residents to avoid providing information to these companies if we are to use the services of many public enterprises, which we think is an open issue. Therefore, we think it should be an open task for the government to establish clear guidelines for all public enterprises on how to use companies that use the personal data for the public. I would also like to address the SV's proposal in the cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e248	The representative of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e253	I am pleased that today we are dealing with the setting of the Personal Information Act, because this is a review that is necessary. The right to privacy, privacy, is a fundamental right, and when this fundamental right is threatened, we have a duty to do something about it. That is why I am pleased that more representatives in this debate today refer to the importance of privacy. In the Jeleia platform, the government establishes this and at the same time says that everyone should be guaranteed the «right to have their own private information». I am pleased to be followed up. For the Left, strong privacy is essential both for individual freedom and for democracy. Freedom presupposes that each individual is protected against undue registration, surveillance and private intervention. The right to privacy has a value that is difficult to measure. Many of us see the value only when personal data is balanced and we feel that our integrity is threatened. That is exactly why the rules we are going to vote on today are so important. We need clear rules that prevent the misuse of personal data. New technologies provide new opportunities for the collection and use of information on individuals. The big difference from the past is that the amount of data collected is on a much larger scale. Sitting on a lot of information about the individual can also be a very good store, as others have pointed out here today. It is therefore gratifying that the use of personal data should be justified and limited. It will not be lawful to collect or store personal data you do not need. Once the need has been removed, personal data shall also be deleted. Individuals spend a lot of time on a wide range of applications, many of which require a lot of information about themselves. For the individual, it can be very challenging to manoeuvre in a forest of standard conditions and different forms of presentation of what to accept and what to accept. At the same time, it is dependent on accepting these conditions in order to be able to participate actively in a social community. In this way, it does not appear to be necessary to decide whether or not to agree to the terms of an application e.l. as a real choice. Either you're outside, or you're inside – and then most people choose to be inside. Therefore, it is important to actively go in and regulate, as you are doing now, in order to ensure the position of privacy. When someone collects information about the individual, it is now necessary to inform them about this – not least it must be very clear that they consent to the collection of the information. For the application part, embedded privacy and privacy will also be required as the default setting. This means that the technical solutions are to be developed in such a way as to safeguard privacy. A clear strength with this law is that the rules on the processing of personal data are the same throughout the EU and EEA territory. Stakeholders outside the EEA will also be subject to the new legislation when offering goods and services to persons in the EU and the EEA. For example, the new rules will apply to an American company selling products or services to European consumers. It is a pity that the SV and the ideological opposition of the Central Party to the EEA are preventing a unanimous decision here today. Personal data flows freely across borders, and then it was only to be lacking that the policy does not follow.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e274	Good privacy is a fundamental right in a democratic society. I would like to thank the Committee for having dealt with the proposal quickly and I am pleased that the majority of the Committee endorses the legislative proposal. I am also pleased that the Committee insists that the Storting agrees to the inclusion of the Data Protection Regulation in the EEA Agreement. With this, we can mark the start of a new era of privacy in Norway, with a completely new data protection law. As individuals, the new law gives us a catalogue of important data protection rights. We have the right to information before anyone processes information about us, we have the right to understand what information is being processed about us, and we can demand that incorrect and unnecessary information about us be erased. In addition, as consumers, we are given a completely new right to take personal data from one service provider to another, so-called data portability. With these rights, and more, the law gives us greater ownership of our own personal data. The law also requires those who process information about us to follow strict obligations to prevent the information from being weighed up or misused. Enterprises, organisations and public authorities must keep track of what information they process, how they treat them, and who they use to help them. Outsourcing data processing to external suppliers may make sense for both private and public enterprises, but the law makes it clear that outsourcing treatment to others does not escape responsibility. The law also makes it clear that those who break the rules can be liable and risk high fines. This underlines the seriousness of the matter. Privacy is a fundamental right for us as individuals. In this respect, I would also like to confirm, as the Committee asks, that the government will closely monitor any negative consequences resulting from the winding-up of the criminal liability for violations of the data protection law. The new law does more than give us good privacy. It also ensures that we have a level playing field across the EEA. Equal rules are good, both for us as individuals and for Norwegian businesses. As individuals, we can be sure that we have equally good data protection rights regardless of the country in which our data is processed, and for businesses it becomes more predictable when the rules are the same across the EEA. The new law is therefore not only good for Norwegian citizens, but also good for Norwegian business. The Data Protection Authority shall continue to be the guardians of data protection in Norway. The new law ensures that the Data Protection Agency has the necessary legal tools to intervene when necessary. However, we also need to ensure that the Data Protection Authority has the resources to drive prevention through indicative information. This is particularly important when it has been pointed out from several quarters that the new legislation is complex. I therefore fully share the Committee's view that data protection plays a key role in the new legislation, and have noted the Committee's comments on the need to strengthen data protection. The Government will also ensure, as underlined by the Committee, that some issues not dealt with in the proposal are further explored. We will also provide for post-control of the law after a certain period of time. In addition, we will come back to Stortinget with proposals to repeal § 86 of new copyright, as the committee asks. In the new rules, we make EU data protection legislation Norwegian law. We have therefore requested the consent of Stortingen under the Basic Law Section 26 to make the legislation part of the EEA Agreement. I am pleased that the majority of the committee is in favour of the Storting giving its consent. In the proposal, the Government presented to the EEA/EFTA Stortinget proposals for inclusion decisions. The proposal is currently under consideration in the European Union. We expect the EU to have completed it in a short time. If the EU considers it necessary to make substantial changes to the decision, the matter will be referred again to the Stortinget. However, we have no indication that this will be necessary. The minority of the Committee has made three proposals that I will not recommend. Proposal No.1 will mean that Norway does not fulfil its EEA obligations, which I consider to be irrelevant. Proposal No 2 is based on delaying the decision on the new law in an unnecessary way. If, against assumption, the EU does not agree with the content of the inclusion decision and significant changes need to be made, the government, as already mentioned, will refer the matter back to the Stortinget. As regards proposal No 3, it follows from Article 28a of the Data Protection Regulation that where a data processor is used by the public or by others, the processing shall be subject to a written agreement setting out the purpose of the processing. The stated purposes are a restriction on what the processor can use the data. Using them for their own commercial purposes would be to break the law. This meets, as I understand it, the intentions behind proposal No.3.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e294	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e299	In March, the Minister of Justice said that it was uncertain whether the Regulations would be incorporated into the EEA Agreement on 25 May. In April, the department said that the law could enter into force at the earliest in Norway in July. Now it is only three days until the regulation enters into force in the EU, and Norwegian companies state very clearly that they need to know when the rules come in Norway. For this reason, I believe it is important that the Minister of Justice is clear on the timetable. My question is: when will the regulation become part of the EEA Agreement, and when will the law enter into force in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e304	As has been mentioned in the course of the debate, more than Norway is going to deal with it. This means that the schedule is not entirely in my hands. It is in the hands of the EU and may also be in the hands of some other EFTA countries. But for the time being, our estimate is that we're about to expect it to happen in July, i.e. the same information we have given on a previous occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e309	I thank you for your answer. The Minister of Justice also said something in his speech that the Labour Party agrees with: that there is a need to strengthen the Data Protection Authority. Does this mean that we can get a proposal to strengthen the Data Protection Agency in the proposal for the State Budget for the Autumn?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e316	As the representative is probably aware, the government budget for next year will be presented in the autumn. It's not common to shoot something coming there, but we've noticed what the Storting says. I would also like to remind you that the Data Protection Authority has been strengthened, precisely because there are important things happening to the privacy system.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e321	Yes, we can take the negotiations on the budget of the House, but based on the capacity and dimensioning of the Data Protection Agency today, I wonder what the Minister of Justice is thinking about their ability to follow up the legislation and not least to meet many companies for guidance, given the capacity they have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e326	I think that the need for guidance in the first place will have to apply to small and medium-sized enterprises. Large companies have both the capacity and the opportunity to acquire the necessary skills, and they have already done so to a very large extent. It is also reasonable to say that if the business community intends to have commercial exploitation of the information, it is reasonable that they also bear mainly the cost of learning and implementing the rules. But that does not mean that the Data Protection Authority does not have an important role in guiding, perhaps especially for small businesses. Now, the law on the table, and many people have started working on this, so we're constantly assessing whether there is a need for further strengthening of the Data Protection Authority. So far there are no concrete proposals, but we have noticed the Committee's recommendations, and we want companies to receive the necessary guidance.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e333	It is not undisputed that the majority of the Grand Duchy is now in a position to adopt the regulation before the content has been agreed by the EEA Committee on international law and after we have had an urgent procedure in the Grand Duchy. There is also a lot of evidence that Iceland is not going to deal with the regulation until the fall, which in any case will put an end to its entry into force in July. Then is my question to the Council of State: what would the practical consequences of Norway’s waiting for consent to the regulation until the EEA Committee has resolved the matter and the final content has been clarified?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e338	Norway already has legislation on privacy, and that will be the case. This proposal will strengthen privacy. It gives more rights, it gives better rights, and it also gives Norway access to the EU Data Protection Council. I consider that to be an advantage. There may also be some problems for Norwegian business because the so-called one-stop-shop solution does not work – i.e. that, when this Regulation is in place, businesses will be able to deal with the supervisory authority of their own country and, therefore, where the Regulation is not in place, that possibility is not available. So it also presents some practical challenges, and so the government believes it's very important to get it in place as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e347	I would like to highlight what you say about more companies facing challenges, because it has been pointed out that some of the provisions of the regulation can distort competition. It can provide large enterprises, established actors, international actors with benefits at the expense of small enterprises and start-up enterprises, which may face difficulties in adapting to the Regulation and with high economic and administrative costs. I assume that there is an unintended consequence of the up-to-date legislation, and my question is therefore: how will the Council of State remedy the cost burdens of the smaller enterprises, so that they are not challenged by large international actors, such as the European Union? Google and Facebook?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e352	The President will recall that the speech should be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e358	In any democracy – and in Norway – we change laws and regulations, and every time we change laws and regulations, learning them becomes a job for those covered by the laws and regulations. There is nothing special about privacy, this applies to all the rules to which businesses in Norway are exposed. At least there may be a need to understand this, and the Data Protection Authority has a job to do. However, if it is a competitive disadvantage, I am unsure, because once the scheme is fully implemented, a Norwegian company could deal with the Norwegian Data Protection Authority and thus have the opportunity to operate throughout the EU area, instead of going from country to country and dealing with different countries' data systems and legislation. This means in many ways simplification for any Norwegian company that wants to participate in a larger market, and not necessarily a competitive disadvantage.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e365	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e370	Privacy is a very central part of our liberal democracy. Bad data protection conditions reduce open exchange and political activity. In addition, participation in society may be weakened, and our free and open democracy may be harmed. Not least, our digital everyday life increases the pressure on privacy. It requires that we impose strict requirements on the storage, use and disclosure of information. The more sensitive the data, the more important it is that we have legal systems that ensure privacy for individuals by both strengthening the individual's rights, designing requirements for the person to be treated, and not least ensuring compliance with the legislation for the benefit of the individual. It is therefore very good that we are today to adopt new data protection legislation. And as I can see, there is a cross-political consensus that the new data protection law strengthens the privacy of the individual. The new law gives the individual strengthened rights by continuing and strengthening many of our rights today, as well as by obtaining new rights as individuals, such as: the right to object to the processing of personal data. The new law continues and reinforces a number of obligations for the processing of personal data in addition to the introduction of new obligations, including the obligation on all public and a number of private enterprises to have data protection representatives. The new data protection legislation ensures a uniform regulatory framework in Europe. It is good both for the individual and for those who are to process the data. The world is today more globalized than ever. We as individuals are then totally dependent on the fact that we have legislation that protects us beyond the borders of Norway. A harmonised European legislation strengthens the protection of individuals at the same time as it contributes to simplification for companies and businesses operating across borders. The new legislation also ensures a European supervisory system. It will contribute to the harmonisation of the practice of legislation, which will strengthen the processing of personal data, while at the same time strengthening the rights of individuals. Finally, I would like to say that it is important to put this legislation in place now, so that those who process personal data and operate in several countries have one regulation to deal with. If there is a major change in the agreement with the EEA, the government has to come back to Stortingen with a new case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e385	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e390	The left is occupied by the individual's freedom. Liberal policy is not boundless. Strong privacy is essential both for individual freedom and for democracy, because freedom requires clear boundaries. Freedom requires that every person be protected against improper registration, monitoring and interference in private life. This freedom also includes the right to remain anonymous online. Democracy presupposes that ultimately it is the citizens who control the state, not the state that controls the citizens. Privacy is a fundamental right, and everyone has the right to respect for their privacy. The State shall ensure protection of personal integrity. We all have something we don't want to share with others, not because it's illegal or that we have something to hide, but simply because it's private. New technologies provide new opportunities for the collection and use of personal data for individuals. The amount of personal data collected and processed today is quite different from what we saw just a few years ago. It offers new opportunities, but also new challenges, and we are required to address them. Personal data may not only be used but also be misused. Those who process information also depend on our trust that we will be willing to share information with them. They must provide services and solutions that we can trust. It is about trust in both the public and private sectors and ultimately in democracy. The use of personal data shall be both justified and limited and may be managed on its own. Human beings own the information about themselves. It is very important that public and private enterprises are now given greater responsibility for data protection when collecting and storing data about us. It is required by law that technical solutions must also be made in such a way as to safeguard privacy. The fact that the public is now also to set up data protection agents is incredibly important in order to follow this up. Today we adopt a new personal data law and thereby give the Storting consent to the inclusion of the EU Data Protection Regulation in the EEA Agreement. Privacy challenges are boundless and need to be addressed internationally. It is therefore very important that this be done within the EU and the EEA Agreement. The left supports the introduction of new data protection laws and will continue the fight for strong privacy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e409	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e423	Norway's role in Europe is involved. That's good. That serves democracy. Often, cooperation with the EU is produced as something we need to do. The truth is that cooperation is something we want. The EEA Agreement, and the nearly 70 other agreements we have with the EU, give Norway great benefits. The cooperation has been wanted by all governments and large-scale figures for almost 30 years. The reason is simple: it's in our national interest. The presentation today, and the debate on Thursday, are good occasions to discuss just this. The EEA Agreement is about people's everyday lives – the conditions for Norwegian business and working life, and what we are going to live on in Norway, both today and in the future. This value must not be underestimated. The Agreement ensures unique access to the European market for Norwegian enterprises and jobs. We, as a country with approx. 5 million people, also have access to a domestic market of about 500 million people. It offers unique opportunities for Norwegian companies. It also provides Norwegian households with access to a larger sample of goods and services at lower prices. These are goods that no other free trade agreement could give. The agreement guarantees the rights and opportunities that many of us today take for granted – to go out to study, research or work, gain experience and inspiration. The agreement also allows us to meet the need for foreign labour, labour which is absolutely necessary, among other things. so Norwegian agriculture gets the crops in houses. The government listens when representatives of corner stone holdings throughout Norway, not least in the districts, say that the EEA Agreement is more important than ever. These companies depend entirely on selling their products without barriers and varying standard requirements. A good example is Os ID in Østerdalen. The daily manager, Wenche Wikan Ligård, said to the newspaper The Court of Labour in May last year: ‘Without the agreement, it would not be possible to operate as a producer in Norway, especially in Os.’ Her company produces ID markings for use on animals, and the EU is the company's largest market. The manufacturer Flokk, formerly HAUG, at Røros is one of the most profitable office chair manufacturers in Europe. On 8 May 2017, Product Manager Ottar Tollan and Regional Director of NHO Tord Lien said to the same newspaper that they fear that changes to the EEA Agreement will have consequences for the district’s largest private employment. Mr Ulriksen, Managing Director of Mo Industriepark, said that it is very alarming that questions are now being asked in the EEA Agreement. He believes that the global perspective is missing and that EEA opponents are not talking about the impact of not having the EEA Agreement on heavy sectors such as fisheries, aquaculture and the agricultural export industry. In fact, Norwegian jobs, value creation and well-being depend entirely on the EEA Agreement and European cooperation. In March, 80 managers joined forces in a call: ‘YES to the EEA Agreement’. Their message was very clear: at a time of great and demanding change, there must be no uncertainty about the market outlook for business. The government likes to debate the EEA Agreement, but we don't risk it. It's not in Norway's interest. And it's just wishful thinking to think that we can keep the EEA Agreement while negotiating an alternative form of association with the EU, and then decide when we see what the negotiations lead to. Someone has believed that if we sign out of the EEA, we can negotiate a tailor-made agreement where we can choose what we want, and throw away what we don't like. The United Kingdom’s attempt to find the best possible relationship with the EU outside the EU shows that it is not that easy. The EU has made it quite clear that it is not possible to be halfway within and halfway outside the internal market. It is not possible to opt out of one of the four freedoms and keep the rest. It is not possible to leave the internal market and at the same time continue to affect the development of the rules. And it is not possible to maintain a level playing field without equal regulation and competition on equal terms. There are different models of trade cooperation between the EU and outside countries. In addition to the EEA, this is e.g. participation in the EU Customs Union and trade agreements with different scopes. In addition, a purely WTO relationship comes without further agreement. No alternative removes barriers to trade in the way that membership of the internal market does. That is why we are basing on the EEA Agreement and the 70 or so other agreements we have with the European Union. As I was in the presentation on foreign policy, and as we have underlined in the government's strategy for cooperation with the EU: together with European countries and the EU, we are working with a focus on a safe, free, economically strong and responsible Europe. Our security and defence pillar is NATO and transatlantic cooperation. At the same time, it is important that we are close to developments in the EU, where Member States now show greater willingness to strengthen the EU's ability to maintain both internal and external security. The Government's strategy for cooperation with Europe defines three areas as central to our security and defence policy cooperation with Europe: we need to further develop political dialogue and coordination with the EU; we need to strengthen practical cooperation; and we need to ensure good conditions for the Norwegian defence industry. Through close dialogue with the EU on security policy, we want to ensure a common understanding of the situation, political cohesion and coordinated action. It is in the interests of both Norway and the EU that Norway is involved as early as possible in order to identify relevant contributions in areas of common interest. The EU’s global strategy calls for more targeted cooperation between the EU and partner countries such as Norway. It is a positive initiative, and the government will make proposals to strengthen practical cooperation. We want the Norwegian defence industry to have good conditions in the European market. A good basis has been laid through our agreement with the European Defence Agency, but we also need to provide opportunities to participate in new initiatives. The EU Defence Fund shall contribute to joint research, development and acquisition of military capabilities. Through the EEA Agreement, and as the only third country, Norway is part of the Fund’s pilot scheme for defence research. We are also positioned to participate in the second part of the fund, which is aimed at multi-national material development and acquisition cooperation. Since last summer, the government has been actively working against EU agencies and a number of EU Member States to ensure Norwegian participation. This work continues. The Government will also consider possible participation in projects of particular interest in the structured defence cooperation Pesco. Working for a safe Europe, we also need to strengthen cooperation between NATO and the EU. The two organisations have different tools. To meet the complex security challenges facing Europe, we both need to. We are engaged in a good work sharing between NATO and the EU to avoid unnecessary duplication. EU initiatives need to be developed in an open and inclusive way, and they must not contribute to weakening transatlantic links. We need to build down dividing lines and continue working for good neighbourhoods across Europe. The stability of the Western Balkans is fragile and the reforms are not solid. Low economic development, unemployment and corruption contribute to both ethnic and political tensions. Illicit trends and forces that will then split, slow down reforms and stop Euro-Atlantic integration, get footholds and play. It is positive that the EU and several Member States have signalled increased support for and closer cooperation with the countries of the Western Balkans, just to respond to stagnation and relapse. This is also evident in the EU Commission’s enlargement strategy for the Western Balkans, launched in April. Norway is part of the European Union’s efforts to reform the Western Balkans. Therefore, the government's allocation to West Balkan increases significantly in 2018, from 175 million. NOK 319 million. kr. The aim is to contribute to the development of the rule of law and stability through regional cooperation, reconciliation, prosperity development and good governance. This is an important investment. A democratic and stable Western Balkans, with legal states, economic prosperity and well-being, is important for the whole of Europe. For a long time, the EU membership process was an important engine for the development of Turkey. Today, the process is stationary, and Turkey's relationship with several EU Member States is demanding. The situation in Turkey is worrying because of the erosion of human rights and freedom of expression, but also because of the conflict in neighbouring Syria, refugee flows and migration. The principles and legal certainty of the rule of law are constantly being eroded. Exclusion states have recently been extended, and they will now form the framework for the accelerated elections of both national parliament and president. The development of Turkey is closely monitored by the EU, the Council of Europe, the United Nations and others. The EU is at the heart of the dialogue with Turkey. For Turkey, strong ties with the EU are important and priority. Associations with organisations such as NATO and the EU strengthen Turkey, not least in areas such as economics and security. The government wants Turkey as part of the European community of values and actively cooperates with others on our approach. Among other things, we coordinate with the EU in the OSCE to address challenges we see in Turkey. Fundamental democratic rights are a prerequisite for a free Europe. The government is pursuing a foreign policy anchored in liberal values, for strong civil society, the rule of law and sustainable democracy. We are concerned about the weakening of fundamental rights, the rule of law and democracy we have seen in some of the recipient countries for the EEA funds in recent years. A viable rule of law requires a strong civil society as a corrigendum to state and local authorities. In negotiations on the use of EEA funds with the recipient countries, we focus on ensuring that funds are managed independently of the national authorities. We have now signed framework agreements with 12 of the 15 recipient countries. The economic growth of the euro area and the EU was high in 2017, and offers an increasingly strong economic Europe. Growth is widely distributed across sectors and countries, and unemployment has gradually decreased over the last five years. There is still a high level of youth unemployment, but there is also a positive trend here. The IMF estimates that growth will continue in 2018, but is likely to slow slightly from 2019. The financial crisis in 2008 and 2009 illustrated the need for a stronger and more stable financial system in Europe. The triggered action by the EU and national teams, including the proposal for a banking union. The main objective is to avoid public funds being used to save banks in crisis. Important parts of the banking union have been put in place, but the discussion continues, for example: on common banking protection funds. Further development of the euro area crisis financing mechanisms, the ESM, which was established during the financial crisis, is also discussed. Several of the proposals are expected to be on the agenda of the June European Council, but there is still a considerable gap between Member States. In particular, there is a balance between risk reduction and risk sharing. For Norway, it is central that growth in the EU continues, that the EU financial system is as robust as possible, and that Norwegian financial industries have good access to the EU market and a good basis for continuing to contribute to the financing of Norwegian enterprises. We are witnessing a very worrying escalation of trade tensions between the world's largest economies. The consequences of an ongoing dialogue and negotiations between the United States and China being replaced by alerted trade barriers are serious. It is positive that the calls seem to have prevented a further escalation so far, but the voltage level is still high, and the way forward is uncertain. The United States is now introducing additional customs duties on steel and aluminium. Even if only about 0.2 pst. Of Norwegian steel and aluminium going to the US market, we are clear that this also affects Norway and the multilateral trading system, which is a support bar for the Norwegian economy. We maintain the position that the measures in their entirety need to be withdrawn. When the US introduces barriers to trade for steel and aluminium, this could lead to a redirect to Europe of steel and aluminium that would have been exported to the US market. It may in turn mean that the EU introduces safeguard measures. Should such measures include Norway, Norwegian industry would be very vulnerable in the short term, as exports to the internal market are so much more important than sales outside Europe. We are therefore in close contact with the European Commission and the Member States to prevent Norway as an EEA country from being affected if the EU chooses to introduce its own protective measures. Norway and the EU are united in maintaining a rule-based world economic order. We need to work to prevent trade tensions between the United States and China from jeopardising the multilateral system and increasing macro-economic risk. No one is served by an escalating situation in which the transparency and predictability of international trade are reversed, especially in countries such as Norway. In a responsible Europe, cooperation between countries where the nation states are short. Both Norway and the EU have committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40 pst. by 2030. The phase-in of new technologies, technology development and CO? pricing will be the main means of achieving this objective. The government will use the possibility in the EU ETS and the possibility of direct agreements between EU Framework countries to meet our climate obligations in the non-quota sector. At the same time, we have an ambition to take as much of the national commitments as possible. In this context, Norway has proposed to include the agreement on the joint implementation of the 2030 emissions target with the EU in the voluntary part of the EEA Agreement. We want to enter into an agreement with the EU as soon as possible. Our ambitious goal is to agree on an agreement before the climate summit, COP24, in Poland in December this year. Governments will also contribute to a pan-European and comprehensive migration policy with a wide range of instruments. Norway has made a voluntary contribution to the relocation of asylum seekers from Greece and Italy. The government will use resettlement strategically, both to contribute to responsibility- and burden-sharing and to resolve locked-up refugee situations. In response to the influx of migrants and asylum seekers, the government is committed to the effective and sound treatment of asylum applications and to the return of those who do not have the basis for residence and protection. In Greece, we have good cooperation, funded by EEA funds, on the challenges of asylum and migration. We started this last period with EEA funds and have now expanded it to 33 million. EUR for the period now commencing and which will run until 2024. In this area, we are taking many different measures, and we are seeking increased cooperation with the countries of origin and transit of migrants. Schengen cooperation is an important area for the exchange of experience in this field. Norway will also continue to support the EU's work on good integration policies. Targeted integration can prevent exclusion. Good integration will also contribute to economic growth in Europe. Brexit is high on the agenda and will do so in the future. The government's approach to brexit is firm. We will seek as close cooperation as possible with the United Kingdom for Brexit. It concerns our economic cooperation, and it concerns cooperation in areas such as justice and security. At the same time, we must ensure our agreements with the European Union. They do not change because the United Kingdom is leaving the EU. Before Easter, the United Kingdom and the EU agreed on a transitional regime, which was then given the green light by the Member States of the European Council on 23 March. It is still necessary for the parties to agree on the conditions of disfellowshipping before the transitional arrangements can enter into force. The important issues relating to the border between Ireland and Northern Ireland and the settlement of disputes have not yet been resolved, and both of these issues may still potentially lead to a breach of negotiations. However, the risk of a breach and therefore the United Kingdom leaving the EU and the EEA without an agreement is now considered to be smaller. If the transitional regime comes into effect, as we hope, it will apply from the United Kingdom leaving the EU on 29 March 2019 and until the end of 2020. During this period, the United Kingdom will continue as if it were still an EU member. The British will no longer be represented in the EU institutions and decision-making processes, but they will be bound by the obligations of the EU third country agreements, including the EEA Agreement, and all EU legislation will continue to apply to the United Kingdom. This is a solution we want to welcome. We hope that it will ensure predictability and a level playing field for Norwegian citizens and businesses, and it will give time to put in place the contract agency for the future relationship with the United Kingdom. In the case of Norwegian citizens who have acquired rights in the United Kingdom, the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, Theresa May, has assured them that they will be offered the same rights after Brexit as the British will grant EU citizens. For the future relationship between the EU and the United Kingdom, positions have also become clearer: Prime Minister May confirmed in March that the United Kingdom will leave the internal market and the customs union, but still wants to be associated with the EU in selected areas of the economy. It includes continuing participation in several EU agencies — such as the Agency, the Chemicals Agency and the Aviation Safety Agency. In guidelines adopted by the European Council, the EU sets out a model for the future relationship based on the EU-Canada Free Trade Agreement. This is complemented by cooperation in selected sectors such as aviation and research, agreements in the field of justice and home affairs and foreign and security policy cooperation. At the same time, the EU is aware that as long as the British leave the EU's internal market and customs union and reject free flow of labour, the EU cannot grant the United Kingdom market access similar to that enjoyed by Norway through the EEA, combined with Canada's limited obligations under its free trade agreement. Our own brexit preparations are going on too fully. The government has frequent conversations with both the EU and the United Kingdom and is as close to the processes as possible to take care of Norwegian interests. We are looking for good solutions that reflect the EU and the United Kingdom solutions. Norway needs clarity about how the Commission views the United Kingdom’s need for authorisation in order to start negotiations with Norway. I will follow up with the EU negotiator, Barnier, when I meet him at the EEA Council in Brussels tomorrow. The government continues to work with mandates and practical arrangements for the forthcoming negotiations. The ongoing work of the government’s cross-ministerial working group, Brexit Task Force, is continued. The group follows the negotiations and developments closely, identifies Norwegian interests affected by Brexit, and coordinates our dialogue with the EU and the United Kingdom. I will continue to keep the Stortinges orientated through the European Committee of the Stortinges. Another important part of the follow-up work and the preparation of future cooperation structures is the ongoing dialogue with Norwegian stakeholders. This applies not least through the reference groups for fisheries and for key actors in Norwegian industry and labour. Before I go to the relevant EEA issues, I would like to inform the Storting that I have taken an initiative with the President-in-Office to look at the possibility that one of the two half-yearly statements on European policy will also receive participation from the relevant expert councils, both in the presentation and in the subsequent debate. In 2016, the EU adopted the Data Protection Regulation, which is a solid update in the field. Technology is developing rapidly, and we need to ensure that we have a regulatory framework that embraces the new challenges. It imposes new requirements on businesses for the processing of personal data and gives citizens new rights related to the use of their own data. This implies a reinforced and effective protection of personal data. The Data Protection Regulation will enter into force in EU countries on Friday. For the government, it is important that the new data protection law implementing the Regulation should enter into force as close as possible to that date. The matter has just been debated – before we started this presentation. However, the entry into force of the Act requires that the Regulation is incorporated into the EEA Agreement by means of a decision of the EEA Committee and that any constitutional reservations have been lifted. Based on EU, Liechtenstein and Iceland data, no entry into force can be expected until early July. As far as the financial field is concerned, we are working closely with our partners in the EEA area in order to reduce as quickly as possible the lag of legal acts to be incorporated into the EEA Agreement. The securities market regulatory framework, MiFID and MiFIR, is important in this context. We are working to get the legislation incorporated into the EEA Agreement. We have implemented it nationally and have received EU acceptance for a transitional period of sufficient time for full participation in the internal market in this area. In addition, several new proposals will be made. The European Commission is working further with the Capital Markets Union and measures to ensure the stability of the European market. The Commission has also made proposals to revise the governance structure of the European financial supervisors. Norwegian authorities are working to maintain the balanced solution established for the participation of the EEA/EFTA States in the ESAs during the audit. Most of our energy exports go to the EU, and Norway today covers about a quarter of the EU’s gas needs. On the energy side, therefore, our starting point is in many ways different from that of our neighbours. Nevertheless, it is a great advantage for us to participate in European energy cooperation. The major commitment to incorporating the legislation of the third energy market package into the EEA Agreement and to participating in the EU Energy Agency, Acer, gives us the opportunity to participate in and influence this energy cooperation. This potential for influence is important for Norway. Norway retains, as it is known, full sovereignty over our energy resources. The EU's energy policy is closely linked to climate policy. Energy supply in the EU is the largest source of greenhouse gas emissions. The main objective of EU energy policy is to promote a safe, competitive and sustainable energy sector. This is reflected in the legislation in the field of energy that was promoted in the autumn of 2016, the so-called clean energy package, or the ‘winter package’. European countries spend a great deal of effort and resources shifting their energy sector. The target is a renewable share of 20 pst. by 2020, to be further increased by 2030. This requires the development of a lot of new renewable energy and energy in Europe. In Norway, the total is 98 pst. of power generation already renewable. This means that although we work closely with the European Union in the field of energy, we also have specific features in the Norwegian energy sector that need to be taken care of. The Prime Minister has taken an initiative vis-à-vis the EU to strengthen the fight against crime at work. The government's aim is to promote a working life of safety and flexibility for employees, serious employers and well-functioning and effective tripartite cooperation. The government supports the objectives of the EU social pillar on equal opportunities and access to the labour market, good and fair working conditions and social protection and inclusion. Cross-border work-life crime in the form of undeclared work and other offences is incompatible with an orderly and well-functioning working life. There is a need for both joint action at European level and concrete cooperation with some countries. The EEA funds allow operational cooperation between the Norwegian Labour Inspectorate and the supervisory authorities in different EEA countries. The EEA funds are a door opener and an important European policy instrument. In the fight against crime at work, the use of funds is reported in Lithuania, Estonia, Poland, Bulgaria and Romania. The Norwegian authorities are currently participating in a number of European cooperation venues in the field of labour mobility, as the European Commission is now proposing under a new Employment Agency, the European Labour Authority. The new Agency shall, inter alia: contribute to strengthening European cooperation against crime at work. Norway has indicated that the new Agency must respect national competence. It is important to ensure continued Norwegian participation in those bodies and forums under the Agency where we are already participating. The proposal is now under consideration in the EU bodies, and the government will follow the process closely. The government works for acceptance in the EU for purchasing power adjustment of welfare benefits. The Storting agreed to further work on purchasing power adjustment in the processing of the Storing Notice on the export of Norwegian welfare benefits. The European Commission’s 2016 proposal for amendments to the Social Security Regulation does not contain any changes that would allow for indexation or cost adjustment in the rules on the export of family benefits. The government is now working with similar EU countries to influence EU bodies in order to bring about changes in this area. The relevant government councils address the issue of purchasing power adjustment in calls and meetings with relevant parties. We also have close contact with the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, to clarify the possibilities available, in line with the Storing Communication. The government will make the Nordic region more visible. We aim to increase Nordic cooperation in the European policy arena in Brussels and to increase the use of common Nordic approaches in policy areas where we have a common interest. It could be digitisation and green technology, it could be climate and environment, or it could be energy and labour market. The Storing Communication on Nordic Cooperation will be addressed here in the United Kingdom next week, providing many examples of joint Nordic initiatives with significance in the context of European policy. The good bilateral relations with our partners in Europe are important when we work for the realisation of our interests and visions. The government targets cooperation with European allies and partners. We identify our shared interests on a case-by-case basis in order to identify the Member States with which we should cooperate in order to obtain an impact. In some areas and for some Member States, we also build more systematic, long-term relationships, such as: to the Nordic countries, France, Germany and the Netherlands. We also make it the United Kingdom, and we will continue to do so even after they leave the EU. But this is also the opposite, as when the German government in its new platform expresses a desire for enhanced cooperation with Norway. Europe’s and the EU’s destiny is also Norway’s destiny. On 9 May we presented a new strategy for cooperation with the EU. There we state that a safe, free, economically strong and responsible Europe is in Norway's interest. Our own security, freedom and economy depend on our closest allies, trading partners and valuables. Then we must also contribute where we can. Our relationship with the EU has given Norway stability and predictable framework conditions over the last 60 years. This strategy, which we put forward on 9 May, is a change of pace. It is a powerful defence of the EEA Agreement and the other agreements that link us to the EU. For Norwegian foreign policy, Europe begins. Europe is our own continent. What do we want our part of the world to look like? What role should we play ourselves? What responsibility do we have for development in Europe? The government’s strategy for cooperation with the EU and its work programme is just that. I look forward to continuing the discussion in the debate on Thursday.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e608	The President will propose that the Minister of Foreign Affairs’ statement on important EU and EEA matters be discussed in a subsequent meeting of the European Council in Stortinget. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e622	This year it is 40 years since the Equality Act was adopted by Stortinget. That gives us a good opportunity to establish the status. A 40-year-old, like myself, is old enough to have had some experience and young enough to know that there are many possibilities ahead of him. We can speed up where we think it's going too late, if we're going to achieve the goals we've already set. We can adjust the rate if we see that we have made some less successful choices. We can even set new targets. It's important to look back, to appreciate the progress that has been made, and not least to thank all the brave women who have gone ahead. The 1970s was a decade to fight women's rights. Women and men should have equal opportunities and rights. It was about self-determination, about a life of independence and freedom. It was about arrangements that allowed families to have children, and that both parents could be out of work at the same time. It was about women entering the labour market. Research shows that the employment growth of women from 1972 to 40 years in the future has played a major role in Norway's economic growth. More specifically, we could have missed $3,300 billion. if the women had not made their entry into the labour market. It shows how central female labour market entry has been to our welfare society. It has been of great importance to equality that women and men have become more economically equal. When women and men contribute on equal terms, we become more equivalent. It is essential that both sexes contribute through work to the community and a sustainable welfare society. Participation in the labour market also strengthens the social sustainability of our society. Since the adoption of the Equality Act, Norwegian society has undergone major changes. In 1978 half of the women were at work, today two out of three women are at work. 50 pst. of women working part-time, while the part-time share today is the lowest ever, at 36 pst. The kindergarten law was quite fresh, and 7 pst. of the children went to kindergarten. Today is 91 pst. of the children in kindergarten. The parental leave period was 18 weeks. Today, parents can choose to be at home with their child either 49 weeks or 59 weeks. In 1978, the proportion of women in tertiary education was 41 pst. Today the proportion has passed 59 pst. In the Storting there were 37 women, today there are 69. In the government it was 24 pst. women, today the proportion is 45 pst. This shows that we are, and have been, good at equality in Norway. Let me mention a few examples from the last five years: the proportion of part-time women who have fallen since the government took over in 2013 – from 40 pst. to 36 pst. today. In the state sector now is 56 pst. by the leaders of women. The government has proposed an equal share to mother and father of the parental pension scheme and a part that they can distribute freely between themselves. Differences between average wages and salaries of women and men have decreased from 2015 to 2017. Women are now a majority of graduates at universities and colleges. Also in the case of doctoral degrees, women are now in majority. A Norwegian woman leads the UN operation in the Middle East, as the first woman. The majority of the main social organisations are run by women. In the rest of the world, talking about the work the government is doing for increased equality, and when I say that in Norway we have female prime minister, female foreign minister, female finance minister and female growth president. But we're not in the goal yet. We have some fixed-size patterns we have to work more to solve, and we have some new challenges. It is about structures, values and attitudes. The most difficult thing is perhaps to change cultures and influence attitudes. I would like to mention some challenges: there remains a systematic work on equal rights and opportunities on all grounds of discrimination. The Metoo campaign has shown that we have not managed to build a good enough culture in industries, parties and organisations against sexual harassment. We need to improve gender balance in all industries, not least where we already know that the need for labour is high, as in the health and care sector. Even more women should be able to work full time if they want to. We need female leaders and role models in business. We need to get more women with a minority background into work. We must work against coercion and negative social control. Young people with a minority background must be able to live a free life. Body and appearance-related pressure is a major equality challenge, which we have to take seriously. In the gender equality message, the government promoted dozens of measures to increase gender equality. Through the project Girls and Technology, we see a slight increase in the number of girls in technology. We have good tripartite cooperation on gender equality and are united in action against sexual harassment. We have made proposals that part-time employees may have the right of pre-emption. We are working against violence and abuse through more efforts – women’s health and gender perspective are part of our research efforts. As my colleague Minister of Health Bent Höie tends to say: With more knowledge, there'll be less stupidity. We're going to create a society where being normal is not being like everyone else, but being yourself. Everyone shall have equal rights and equal opportunities regardless of gender, function, ethnicity, religion, outlook, sexual orientation and age. 46 years ago, the Stortinget lifted Section 213 of the Criminal Code that criminalized sexual acts between men. Today, Norway is one of Europe’s best countries in terms of policies and rights for LHBTIQs. The government will ensure that Norway takes the international stage to promote better rights for sexual minorities. We aim to ensure that the competence of the LHBTIQ groups is included in the framework plan for all relevant training courses. Norway will host IDAHOT in 2019, where the rights and conditions of LHBTIQ persons are put on the agenda. This year, Bufdir launches a set of LHBTIQ indicators on their situation in life. As far as I know, this is the first of its kind in the world. We are also in the process of a new LHBTIQ living conditions study. I look forward to hosting the large collection to promote LHBTIQ interests for next year. I am sure that in the context of the large assembly, Norway will be able to significantly increase the need to strengthen human rights in these fields. Defence also deals with transparency, knowledge, awareness and attitudes measures to keep LHBTIQs in the defence. Provision must be made for disabled persons in working life and daily life. Here, the government has high ambitions, both through the inclusion mandate, to get more people to work and work on the strategy plan to describe policy objectives, frameworks and priorities. We want a raise for equality for people with disabilities. On 1 January 2018, a new Equality and Discrimination Act and a new Discrimination Ombudsman Act entered into force. The new laws establish a strong and effective protection against discrimination. Before the summer, we send out a proposal for a strengthened obligation to provide information. The government will combat racism, religious discrimination, antisemitism, social control and prejudices based on sex, sexual identity and ethnicity. We need more knowledge in the work against hateful expressions. This year we will be presented with more research work. The Children's, Youth's and Family's Directorate carried out the #not-greet campaign on gender-based hateful expressions. Fortunately, the campaign got a lot of attention in social media. The report Holdings to Jews and Muslims in Norway in 2017 has several findings that give cause for concern. The government has asked the government to draw up and implement a new national action plan against racism and ethnic and religious discrimination. I look forward to launching the work on this. Children, young people and adults have the right to make their own choices in life. It's a human right for everyone. The government has therefore launched a campaign against negative social control. The campaign will help us to get to the young people who want to talk to but who are unable to find the help they need. The Government shall implement an integration promise. Those who come to Norway should feel like part of Norwegian society. They should learn Norwegian quickly and get into either education or work. Work on coercion and negative social control is highlighted in the government platform. The action plan against negative social control, coercion and sexual mutilation shall be followed up and reinforced. We will contribute to changing attitudes and practices in affected environments. This requires both information and dialogue on the fundamental rights under consideration. We need better cooperation between public services. For example, we have to. use home visits to a greater extent if children are suspected of being kept away from school. We need to strengthen the legal protection of those who are subjected to coercion and negative social control. Those who see need to break up with family and networks need better protection and support. I want to be an equality minister for young people with a minority background and therefore have clear priorities for how to live more freely. We need to take young votes much more seriously. We have many important young voices in Norway. Many struggle between their parents' culture and expectations and their own desire to live an independent, free life. I want their experiences to be listened to. The government's recently reduced selection, #UngIDag, will address gender equality challenges among children and young people, and of course young people with a minority background have a large place. We need to give better support to the parents of these children and young people. Being a good parent is demanding enough for everyone. Many parents with immigrant backgrounds are likely to experience even more parents here in Norway, for often they are in the grip of their own culture and expectations from the Norwegian community. For me, it is important that they receive help and support in their efforts to have a good future in Norway. A central tool is the parental support strategy to be provided by the government just before the summer. There's a very central issue in parental guidance. The fight against discrimination is important. We know that people with a minority background experience discrimination, among other things. in working life. We have to do what we can to prevent this. Discrimination is destructive to the trust we need in order to achieve good fellowship. The government will therefore take several measures to counter discrimination in the labour market, in the housing market and in the outpatient area. Another important gender equality challenge in today's society is about body pressure. Young people are subjected to a violent body pressure. An unhealthy focus on body and appearance in social media contributes tremendously to that pressure. In a SIFO study, 85 pst are given. by the girls that they experience body pressure. All 50 pst. by the girls, reading certain blogs greatly contributes to this. Body pressure can have a number of serious consequences, such as a negative view of your body, mental problems and eating disorders. A study, which is quite daunting, shows that all nine out of ten girls in the 16th century want to change their bodies. This is serious. There are signs that mental challenges for girls start at an early age. Young data show that far more girls than boys are stressed by schoolwork, that girls are generally less satisfied with their health than boys, and that they use prescription-free drugs to a much greater extent. From childhood onwards, the incidence of anxiety disorders and depression is about twice as high in women as in men, and women are more often in contact with primary health services for such disorders. Body press has been a major problem for a long time. Today's widespread use of blogs and other social media may have intensified the pressure. Many popular bloggers write about their own experiences with Botox, ‘fillers’ and plastic operations – although they have young followers, down to the age of 10-12. This helps to normalise such interventions and to increase a terrible pressure. It has come to the point that this is something we have to address on the part of political authorities. The body press and the focus on appearance enhances today's narrow gender roles. That's why I'm spending time on this in my statement. This is a major equality challenge. It's a big equality challenge for the girls and boys who grow up today. It's the young people who live their lives here and now. But in order for us to put in the right measures, we also need to know what works. The government is concerned about getting more knowledge of the reasons why children and young people experience the body pressure and struggle with poor self-image. Together with the Health Directorate, we have therefore commissioned research on stress, pressure and mental health. The latest survey results come during the year. I look forward to it with great anticipation. The selection that has just been dropped, #HungIDag, should be added, among other things. identify and evaluate measures that may contribute to less body pressure and stereotyped gender roles. I have great expectation of what that sample will provide of solutions and proposals for action. The Metoo campaign has been a wake-up tool and shows that there is a need for both measures and attitudes on sexual harassment. One of the first things I did as a Minister for Gender Equality was to invite important voices from a wide range of relevant actors to a meeting about how we can create lasting change in the cold water of #metoo. There I and the government got a lot of useful recordings, for example. it is important to start prevention as early as possible, to balance gender composition in leadership groups and to avoid asymmetric power conditions. Even before the summer, I want to send a proposal to consult on a low threshold offer for the enforcement of sexual harassment cases. We will also look at how to strengthen counselling and assistance through the gender equality and discrimination Ombudsman, improve sexual education in school and ensure that we have good knowledge of the scope. Violence in close relationships remains a major challenge for equality. 40 years ago, we didn't talk so openly about the violence that's happening inside the home's four walls. It was something that belonged to privacy. The government continues to work against violence in close relations, sexualized violence against women and trafficking in human beings. The initiative in the escalation plan against violence and abuse, which with a special effort by the Christian People's Party has contributed to our having a total priority of about 800 million in the current year. kr, makes it possible to increase the investigation by the police and to improve the provision of treatment to victims and perpetrators of violence under the authority of family protection and the Alternative to Violence Foundation. Not everyone in Norway can live a free and independent life. There are women and children living in shelters and shelters for years. Too many women are subjected to domestic violence for several years before contacting the police or getting protection. That someone even loses their lives before they get away is completely unacceptable. As long as women and children are subjected to violence in close relationships, we cannot call ourselves an equal society. Therefore, the government will set up a sample to review partner killing cases. The sample shall identify conditions which may be relevant to the prevention of such types of killing. It is important that victims of violence and their relatives be protected through criminal proceedings and get good help to move forward. That is why we have also established support centres for crime victims in all the twelve police districts of the country. Our main task is to prevent violence and abuse from taking place. Children and families exposed must be caught early, including: through good parental support measures in the municipalities. A new parental support strategy will be put forward before the summer, and we have great faith that this can be an important tool for getting to the families and helping them early. We're doing a great job on family protection. Family protection has been reinforced by 160 million. kr since 2014. There I must also be allowed to boast of the Christian People's Party and their hard work to get into and at the earliest possible stage of helping the families, talking to the parents, talking to the children, how they can exercise better care for their neighbors. Family protection is now more likely to work with violent people. They're going to work with violent families and children. We have built up a national agency of competence in the field of family protection with special competence for violence. It will be an important contribution for fewer women and children to be exposed to domestic violence, where they must feel safest. The government will also present a new action plan on rape this year. It will highlight key challenges, followed by measures to improve prevention, the quality of research and the safe professional follow-up of insults in such serious cases. The government is working to counteract differences between women’s and men’s health and differences in the provision of health services. We want more men to work in the health and care sector. Sickness is high in Norway, and a large proportion of absenteeism is due to muscle and skeletal disorders and mental disorders. It is essential to address these challenges in order to be able to work longer. Among women with disabilities, muscle and skeletal disorders are the most common. The government wants to develop and introduce package pathways also for muscle and skeletal disorders, fatigue and pain management, precisely to ensure that all patients in the Norwegian healthcare system receive an equivalent offering of high quality. Education and work are the very basis for living a free and independent life. It's about being economically independent, it's about being well integrated into society and living an equal life. It is also a key to avoiding children growing up in families with persistently low incomes. By the end of 2018, the government will present our integration strategy. Its aim is to increase participation in working and social life among immigrants through integrated and coordinated action. My main concern is that four out of ten immigrant women are not working. The Employment Committee shall propose measures to help more people, both immigrants and the majority of the population, to get to work. But the fact that so few immigrant women are at work is also of great importance to the children who grow up and experience child poverty. For this reason, the introduction programme and training in Norwegian and social skills are our main tool for getting newly arrived refugees and moving quickly into work or education. We have already made it better for people to take primary or secondary education in the introduction programme. We are now reforming the introduction programme with clear expectations of good results and more labour-oriented actions. The government also proposes a number of other measures to contribute to better integration and increased labour participation among immigrant women, not least to strengthen job opportunities. I am concerned to know more about the reasons for the lack of work participation. That's why the Prime Minister, the Minister of Knowledge and I, in a round table conference on 8 March, raised this particular issue with women and men with a minority background. I plan to invite you to a round table conference with men in the minority community to discuss with men why many of the immigrant women are not working. What's the reason for this? I want to discuss equality with the immigrants. Never before had so many people been under education as in 1970, then 20 pst. of the population was just that. Education became a key to breaking up with the gender roles that many had grown up with and a driving force for changes in life patterns and expectations for the future. At the same time, educational choices have contributed to gender-based employment in Norway, for boys and girls in Norway take a great deal of gender-based educational and vocational choices. It's obviously something that's hard to break up and change. This is particularly evident in secondary and vocational education. Here are several educational programs dominated by one gender. In school, there are clear gender differences in performance between boys and girls. Guys are overrepresented in several statistics, for example: special education, non-response and performance at the lowest skill levels. Differences are evident throughout the educational cycle and can potentially have significant consequences on the way young people live as adults, as well as on their ability to enter high-level admission studies. I would like to inform you that in the Nordic Council of Ministers last week, Norway has had a positive impact, namely that the role of boys and men in equality should be a major theme of the cooperation programme for the coming period. I am pleased that Norway is going ahead and getting the Nordic countries to see what is happening because the boys are falling out of school, that men's challenges today may not be taken with equal responsibility and seen as a gender equality fight. I look forward to this as the main theme giving us opportunities to put gender equality challenges on the agenda, because we need a better knowledge base on why gender differences arise, not least in terms of school performance, and what can we do to counteract them. This is why the government has set up an expert committee, the Stoltenberg Committee, which has been commissioned to help us identify causes and effective measures. Projections show that the working life of the future will need, in particular, skills and labour in the health and care sectors and in the technology sector. The fisheries and aquaculture industry is an important industry. It is a paradox that all these sectors are gender-divided. It's not sustainable, and in the long run, we're missing out on important labour. The labour market of the future must choose between the best talents and there is every reason to believe that these are evenly distributed between today's girls and boys. The problem of some sectors being dominated by men and other women is that it limits individual choice and affects recruitment to occupations, industries and sectors. Locked patterns in the labour market lead to little flexibility and result in poor use of human capital. A smaller gender-based working life requires more people to choose education that violates today’s gender-based role-playing patterns. The #UngIDag selection should include, but not be limited to, the #UngIDag selection. addressing challenges related to gender-based educational and vocational choices. The aim is for the sample to propose good measures to encourage young people to break traditional gender roles in the choice of education and occupation. The study can provide us with a good knowledge base in the development of a strategy for a more equal education and labour market. We have to look at a lot of different instruments. Men in health and girls and technology have proved to be two success stories. That's why the government of the Jeløya platform says we want to make these projects nationwide. Men in health is a national project aimed at contributing to the increased recruitment of men in the care sector. In 2017, it was spread to about 65 municipalities, and 410 men had been offered a job as a health recruit. Girls and technology aim to increase the proportion of women who choose technology training throughout the education cycle. Since 2016, the number and proportion of girls in technology subjects have increased in secondary, post-secondary, university and higher education. It is a pleasure to see that the measures are working, and it is a pleasure to see that our targeted work is delivering results. Yes, see what we've got into the defense! It's not many years since it was impractical for women and men to participate in the same line, but in the defense now about every four guardians is a woman. It provides increased opportunities for girls and undoubtedly contributes to a better defense of our country. It shows that it is possible to change tough structures. More people have to work full time, because that's what contributes to the sustainability of our society. 36 pst. part-time work by employed women. We have called on regional health companies to continue their work on the development of a full-time culture and to add as many employees as possible to full-time jobs. It's been important. The reporting by regional health enterprises shows a reduction in the use of part-time for permanent employees in health enterprises. As more women than men work part-time, it is women who take the cost of freeing time for home work and care. So we're proposing to extend the mother's and father's quota from 10 to 15 weeks. At 100 pst. withdrawals will be given to mother and father 15 weeks each, and 16 weeks will go to free distribution between mother and father. The fathers will get a larger share than they've ever had. It's good for the family, it's good for the children, and not least it's good for the equality. I am concerned that when parents are going to distribute the last third, there should not be any obvious reason that it should be the mother's part, or that it should be called the mother's part. It's going to be exciting to see how many men are taking out parts of that quota. The proposal is a major step towards effective non-discrimination between mothers and fathers in the parental scheme. I also hope that this can be an instrument for more women working part-time to work more. Even in 2018, men dominate the positions of power in most areas of society — yes, with the exception of government. That means there are almost only men in economic decision-making positions. In particular, gender bias is seen in the top positions in business. The Government's objective is to have at least 40 psts of the senior management groups of state companies, directorates and state agencies. of both sexes. The State sector may indicate that 56 pst. by the leaders are women. Also when you break down to positions in the departments and the directorates, the figures are good. For example, the share of female dispatch managers is 52 pst, and at the directorate level the proportion of women who are top managers is 43 pst. This shows that through systematic gender equality work, the state has achieved a good gender distribution in senior management positions. It shows that it's possible. This shows that you can do it on purpose. Here, many people in the business community have something to learn. In recent years, there has been an increase in female directors in government-owned companies, and by the end of September 2017, the proportion was 46 pst. However, we need more women leaders and role models in business, because it is in the top positions that economic decisions are taken, and women are to be included. CORE Top Leader Barometer monitors the gender balance of directors and top managers in the largest companies in Norwegian business, measured after turnover. Those are sad numbers. Today, only two out of ten top leaders are women in the 200 largest companies. The top leader is almost always a man. I look forward to launching the new top-level surveyor from CORE before the summer. On the basis of the barometer, I want a review of the sectors where we see that the challenges are still great. Together with the Minister of Industry, I have invited top business leaders to a round table conference to discuss measures to improve gender balance in top management. I want to engage in dialogue with business leaders to learn how they systematically work with gender equality strategies. What measures have they taken? What measures do they intend to take to change the gender balance at the top of the Norwegian economy? The discussion of reasons has been high lately. Fortunately, there was a Minister of Industry from the Right who got through to what has made many women occupy the board of directors. But that's not enough. I want us to get more women in the top of Norwegian business because that's good for our country. That is why we need to look at the recent research that has been done. We need to look at how the recruitment takes place in these top management positions. What informal networks help to influence them? I would also like to take up and meet the recruitment sector. Those who headhunter and recruit to these positions, where do they recruit from? Who's that you're talking to? What are the criteria set for the senior executives of the large private companies? A good example of something that works is the Ada project at NTNU. The Ada project is targeted at recruiting girls for ICT studies and running a career network of 26 ICT companies, where many girls end up with summer jobs and the first job after finishing their studies. This is a good initiative that works and that I will spread to the labour market. The fisheries and aquaculture industry is another example. It is an industry that represents significant values, the second largest by the oil and gas sectors. The industry is an example of the sex-shared labour market by the fact that a small proportion of employees are women. Ownership and leadership in the fisheries and aquaculture sector are dominated by men. Women must also participate in the value creation of this sector. However, there are some positive developments and the application figures for the aquaculture studies show great interest among women. Together with the Minister for Fisheries, I have taken the initiative to get a knowledge overview of the gender composition in the industry. I look forward to going out to the industry and talking to the representatives of the fisheries and aquaculture industry to discuss what to do to improve the gender balance in the industry. Gender equality policy has no borders. Norway has been an exporter of equality since the 1970s. We stand up for the international equality arena and work for the UN's sustainability goals. Women's rights and equality are a priority part of Norwegian foreign policy. The action plan Freedom, power and opportunities provide the framework for the work of the EEAS on women’s rights and equality. In order to strengthen women’s rights in foreign and development policy, the government has established the LIKE programme – equality of opportunity for development. The aim is to share Norwegian experiences in gender equality. The programme shall focus on technical cooperation on gender equality between Norway and the authorities in countries that demand capacity and institutional development. In the last four years, the government has doubled support for education in development cooperation. The education of girls is a major priority in this effort. Girls and women's right to determine their own bodies and their own lives is crucial to achieving equality. The SheDecides initiative has this as its objective. I'm proud to have become Norway's champion for SheDecides. The government is increasing its efforts for access to prevention and sexual and reproductive health, including safe abortion, from an already high level, by 700 million. kr over 4 years. The action plan for women, peace and security provides guidance on how Norway should ensure women’s and girls’ security and rights in war and conflict, and strengthen women’s influence in conflict management and peace processes. We are working on a new action plan that will apply from 2019. Here we will strengthen and concentrate our efforts further. The main theme of the year at the UN Commission on Women was equality for women and girls in rural areas. Both the Norwegian Minister for Foreign Affairs and I gave priority to participating in the Women’s Commission. It was a pleasure to see how well it was accepted that Norway also asked its foreign minister for once. From Norway, women’s right to inheritance and land, education and work were promoted as important. We would like to see an even more ambitious final document, but I am happy to say that pressure to weaken commitments did not prevail on the Women's Commission. In particular, I would like to draw attention to the fact that Norway worked regionally and got a good paragraph on women's human rights champions. The 40th anniversary of the Equality Act shall be marked by a celebration on Friday 8 June, the day before the decision was taken in this Chamber in 1978. The Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Culture, representatives of the Family and Culture Committee and veterans from the field will attend and celebrate the day. We're going to celebrate that a lot has happened in the equality field over the last 40 years. At the same time, I stand here as 40-year-old gender equality minister and know that we have many gender equality challenges to address. The course's out. Although this is not a mid-life crisis, we should not spend 40 years trying not to combat very entrenched patterns in education and work. We have to fight for those who are not allowed to live a free and independent life, and we have to show that equality pays off. Equality is a prerequisite for maintaining the high level of well-being we have in Norway today and for developing our good society further. That's why we have to keep working to ensure that everyone has equal rights and equal opportunities regardless of sex, function, ethnicity, religion and outlook, sexual orientation and age. That's why we're going to work on structures and attitudes. That is why the gender equality struggle will continue to produce results.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e804	The President will propose that the presentation by the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, on the status of promoting equality and diversity in all sectors, be given treatment in a subsequent meeting in Stortinget. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e822	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to three minutes to each party group and three minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e832	Today, as rapporteur-in-Office of the Council, I would like to begin by thanking the Committee for its very good cooperation on a matter which has involved many people, not only in the Committee, but also out there. In particular, you might be able to draw out Wedding Busters, which is also part of the international movement to ban marriage among children. I – and I believe many people with me – believe that this is perhaps one of the most important women's struggles of our time, at least equality struggles. The introduction of an absolute age limit of 18 years for marriage in Norway is very important, but the fact that the Committee is today also gathered that it wants the government to come back, after they have investigated a legal lower age limit in order to recognise marriages made abroad, including an 18-year-old, is also very, very important. Several of us sitting on the committee are also Barna's Stortings representative, and then it becomes that this matter, which, to those degrees, concerns children and young people, is very important to us. I also think it is very important to stress that we have an international responsibility to send a signal that marriage among children is not right. An abuse of children is probably as wrong in other countries as when it happens with ethnic Norwegian children here within our borders. Today I think the Storting goes into history. We go ahead, and I hope that many of the countries around Europe and the rest of the world will follow our example. This is an important day for the children, perhaps most important for them, but it is also a very important signal for the future – about what kind of society we want, and about what rights children and young people should have.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e844	Thanks to the rapporteur for a good report, and as mentioned, there is unanimity in this case. I would like to highlight what the case rapporteur had to say, and which the Minister also mentioned in the statement on the status of equality work, the signal this sends to the rest of the world – and also to environments in Norway. I was also at the women's conference this fall, and very many of the organisations working on equality issues look to Norway. At least they've been doing it for a long, long time. However, it is also important to recognise the work being done in other countries in order to prevent children from getting married — for example. in Malawi, where this was prohibited in 2017. There are strong civilian forces in all countries to ban this. Now that Norway has reached its decision, it is a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e852	The working party was known to be ready to take decisions in the past. We had a proposal ready in October 2017, but in November the government announced that it would make a bill, and it was sent out to the hearing in December 2018. When we discussed our proposal in March this year, it was too early for the government, so it is good that we can now adopt it in May.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e855	There are probably many in this room who attended this weekend’s royal wedding event in Windsor, in St. George’s Chapel. Prince Harry and Meghan Markle are a good example of those who marry. But if there's one thing we all know, it's that marriage doesn't necessarily happen like on TV, and not necessarily like Disney's. There are some rules that we think should apply to all marriages. A general rule is that you have to be at the age of 18 years. In Norway, we should not accept that minors marry, and that should be without exception or exemption. Although there are currently very few under 18 years of age who have been exempted from marriage, an absolute age limit will give a clear signal both in Norway and abroad that we do not accept marriage between minors. The fact that we're changing the law today gives a good signal effect. We're changing the law, and we also have a culture for proposing legislative changes to be widely consulted, as this proposition has been. None of the parties to the hearing had any objection to the suspension of the exemption under Section 1a of the Marriage Act. Questions are asked about whether a waiver would create an incentive to marry abroad. This is also discussed in the proposition, where reference is made to the second paragraph of Section 18a of the Marriage Act, which states that a marriage concluded abroad is not recognised if at least one of the parties was a Norwegian national or resident in Norway at the time of marriage and one of the parties was under 18 years of age. Such a marriage may only be recognised in Norway upon application, which Norway is restrictive in its approval. The Committee considers that Norwegian authorities should continue restrictive practices in order to prevent and impede marriages where at least one is under 18 years of age from taking place abroad. If this rule was to be violated by presumption, the new law has opened up the right to require each of the spouses to dissolve the marriage without a separation or a break-up in advance. This solution is very similar to what you have in Sweden. You also give the County Council the right to raise a case in order to dissolve the marriage if the spouses themselves do not raise such a case. I think it has been a good consideration in the committee, and I think there have been many good suggestions on how to maintain the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e870	The current legislative proposal is about an absolute 18-year limit for marriage in Norway, with no derogation. The purpose of the legislative proposal is to abolish the possibility of a derogation and thus prevent minors from entering into marriage in Norway. Although the number of cases is low in Norway, there are still too many. The legislative change is therefore a particularly important signal. The centre party will fight against child and coercion and work to improve the legal protection of women in the event of coercion. Changes in the law will be a good tool in this way, even in the way of preventing and abolishing forced marriages. An absolute limit for marriage of 18 years also corresponds to the age of authority. Marriage is a decision with personal and legal effects. The amendment to the law is also an important signal abroad that Norwegian authorities do not accept marriages made by minors in Norway. The central party also endorses the proposal to set a lower age limit in order to accept marriages made abroad, including an 18-year limit.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e883	The majority examined a draft representative with the same content recently. That's why I'm not going to say that much right now. Child and coercion marriage is very serious for those affected, it is also serious for the whole community. This is a form of violence against children, and it is often part of a larger picture with negative social control, pressure, honor-related violence and other similar problems. Therefore, it is important to prohibit children’s genuineness to combat oppressive structures that severely affect Norwegian children and young people. It's about release, it'll send an important signal, and it means a lot to them. Therefore, SV previously supported in our proposal to ban child marriage. I'm very glad that the announced proposition is now in place. Why we had to take this detour – not just support the representative proposal earlier in the year – when there was such a great deal of agreement on the matter, one might wonder. The proposal was good and thorough, and as a legislative assembly, we could go ahead. It's a shame we couldn't go ahead at that point, but now at least the proposition is in place. I'm very happy about that, and SV is going to support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e892	I will join the previous speaker. It is a joyous day when Norway now takes such a great international responsibility and takes precedence over children’s human rights and children’s right to rule over their own lives. It is an important piece of legislation that is now in place and that will ensure the rights of children in a very good way. I want to congratulate Plan International Norway on a very good job, where young people have been with and promoted and explained this matter. And to Jayjay, Agnes and Kamilla, who are here today: this is also an example of how fine our democratic model in Norway is, that you can get involved, you can contact elected representatives, and you can explain why it is necessary to make changes to the law, or why politicians should change their positions or take new initiatives. Then it's good that we have politicians who listen and who also have the ability to change their position. We are already investigating the issue of a statutory lower age limit in order to recognise marriages made abroad, and in this context we are going to investigate an 18-year-old limit in order to recognise the marriages in question. What matters to me today is not least what this means for children who grow up in Norway, all those children out there who are subjected to coercion and are deprived of their childhood, deprived of their lives, who are subjected to coercion throughout their entire lives from being young children. I hope that the Storting will get attention to the decision that is being taken today, that it will be noticed internationally, and that we will continue to show the way and go ahead in terms of children's rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e903	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e919	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e928	We are discussing today the representative proposal from Christian People's Party representative Geir Jørgen Bekkevold on language training for cash beneficiaries and the removal of the five-year requirement relating to cash support. I would like to thank the committee for its work. There's some disagreement in the committee, and I'm going to come back to it. The introduction of the five-year residence requirement for cash support is a general restriction based on an assessment that newly arrived immigrants should be stimulated to work and education. One element of the introduction of the housing requirement is that children of newly arrived immigrants should go to kindergarten in order to be well integrated into the Norwegian community. The housing requirement relating to the cash support has been dealt with in Stortinget on several occasions, at the latest during the examination of a representative proposal from the Christian People's Party in autumn 2017. The Christian People's Party argues why the requirement to live must be removed. They clearly say that well-being that strengthens the freedom of choice of families should be maintained, and society must launch targeted actions linked to the competences and cultural barriers of women. They are committed to doing something about the weak connection that immigrant women have to work with. It is widely agreed that poor language skills and low levels of education are among the main challenges preventing immigrant women from entering the labour market. But gender roles and family understanding are also part of the culture that makes many immigrant women take the lead in child care. A weak gender perspective will also help to keep women away from work. Government parties, with the support of other parties, believe that the removal of the living requirement will strengthen the expectations of newly arrived immigrant women and the environments in which they are part, of being at home and caring for children. We know that social control is a means of achieving that women conform to the norms of their culture, and the sanctions of resisting pressure can be quite large and, in the worst case, lead to family violations. It is worrying that only four out of ten immigrant women are working. It is therefore important that measures reduce social pressure and lead to a expectation from the large community that women – as men – are at work. In the Jeløya platform, the government has set itself the goal of working to renew and improve Norwegian training, so that we can get a good basis for learning and participation in the labour market. This includes, inter alia: strengthening Norwegian training. We have expectations of the reduced employment committee, which will propose measures that can help to get more immigrants and the minority to work. The government will also present an integration strategy by the end of 2018. The aim is for immigrants and their children, including refugees, migrant workers and family reunification, to come to work and not least to be part of society. The strategy shall provide a direction for integration work. It starts with the kids. A good integration process in a well-functioning society requires a common understanding of Norwegian society and culture. This requires a special effort on the part of the individual. Learning a new language is not a smart fix. Participation in the labour market or start-up of education is necessary in order to be well integrated. Too many immigrant women today live in isolation without language skills and without participation in society. We welcome the cash support, but believe that cash support for immigrant women can easily lead to exclusion, especially for those who are newcomers, and therefore we do not support the proposals of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e949	With regard to this matter and the vote, I can only agree with the rapporteur’s statement – it explained well to the majority’s point of view. But what's interesting is that the rapporteur's contribution is a good one not only against this proposal, but against the main principles of cash support in general. All the arguments used here against lifting five years of living requirements can be used on how the scheme generally turns out. We have moved a very long way from when the cash support was first launched and was to be a principle scheme for all children who chose not to use kindergarten, to now become a relatively limited scheme for the youngest children. I think we're on our way to a place where we can get a broad consensus on this, where it can be seen as part of a kind of extended maternity leave, where you can find good and sensible solutions. But then we have to take seriously the challenges that the scheme brings about, in particular for participation in the labour market for women and for language relations both for children and for mothers. That's what we're doing all the time -- we have a system that creates some problems in its basics, and then we try to solve these problems all the time, but instead of abolishing the system and creating a system that doesn't create these problems, we're looking for measures to'solve the symptoms'. Language training — very good: the Labour Party has been critical of the cuts that have been in language training for immigrants over the last few years. This is the most important measure to ensure social links, both in terms of working life and society in general. We now also see that the nursery sector is a training arena. It is not without reason that the kindergarten sector and the school sector are now increasingly seen in the context, that they want to strengthen their pedagogical density, and that early interventions are absolutely crucial. It's an interest-rate return, the researchers say, at an early effort for children, and it starts long before school starts. It's these first years of training in both language, social training and all these things that make children succeed. Therefore, I hope that the majority we see now will also take into account that it is the very basic idea behind the cash support – that one should be paid for not using a welfare service – that really has to be asked questions. However, with regard to this setting, we broadly agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e956	The Cash Support Scheme is a replay of Stortinget. In the spring of 2017, there was a majority in favour of applying out-of-court obligations, and the Christian People's Party's 8 proposal to change the out-of-court requirement was debated no later than 1 February. For the Centre Party, cash-sponsored options are for the smallest children, i.e. children between one and two years of age. There is no central party target for all one- and two-year-olds to go to kindergarten. For the very least, it is important that the option adapts the family situation to the individual and to the best of the child. It's worth remembering that it's essentially the child who's the main character of the scheme. It is therefore unthinkable that a group of parents should not be able to have this freedom of choice, as well as the unintended consequences mentioned in the joint comments of the Central Party and the Christian People's Party. It is still argued that cash support is an obstacle to integration for the smallest children as well. According to the Centre Party's view, this is not documented, and there is a lack of in-depth knowledge about the recipients of the cash support. Everyone agrees that good and rapid integration of immigrants is important. I am sure that everyone agrees that language training is decisive in this way. It is therefore necessary to link cash support to language training requirements much better in the context of integration. For example, an immigrant woman who wants to benefit from the cash benefit must also commit to language training. This promotes integration. The centre party asked the representative from the Christian People's Party to link the cash subsidy to language training requirements. This will preserve the freedom of choice of parents and, with the aim of integrating them, will require language training in order to receive cash benefits. I would then like to address the proposal of the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e969	The representative of Olav Urbø has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e974	One of the most important issues for equality between women and men is female participation in employment and economic independence. We were given a good account of this earlier today during the Minister for Gender Equality's statement. The fact that women are at work is important both for each individual who becomes economically free and is given greater opportunities, and not least for society, because women's contribution to value creation is our largest national asset. One of the key prerequisites for women to have as good opportunities as men to get into work is a family policy for gender equality: that we make it possible for father to be at home with the kids, and that we provide a good childcare facility. Therefore, SV went in and got through the father's quota in the parental leave, the nursery agreement and full child care coverage. These are important instruments that make it easier for women to get to work. But unfortunately, society is also actively adding that women should not work and not send their kids to kindergarten, using billions of dollars to subsidize people to be at home. I respect that someone will be at home with the children, but this is about what we as a community are going to spend our strong resources supporting under. SV will not build barriers to the working life of women and barriers to accessing children's kindergartens. Therefore, we will abolish the cash support and instead introduce a waiting allowance for nursery facilities, so that you can stay home with the children until the kids get that place. A whole of six public samples have recently concluded the same thing. The proposal we are discussing today is about investigating and replacing living requirements in order to receive cash support with language training requirements. SV was against the living requirement when it was treated last year, and we are still. When the inequality of power and wealth increases significantly, introducing any kind of double standards in our welfare is not a very good idea if you think that the differences should down and not up. In particular, housing requirements for cash support hit families with poor advice hard when people with a migrant background are overrepresented in poverty statistics. Therefore, SV supports the proposal we are examining today to investigate replacing living requirements with language training. In addition, we believe that if language training is to be required first, we must also demand that the provision of language training be good and that it needs to be strengthened. Language is the gateway into society and into the labour market for many, but the offer is too poor and has been the subject of more cuts in recent years. Therefore, SV is proposing to strengthen the provision of language training today and has its own proposal. With that, I'll take up SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e989	The representative Freddy André Supreme Court has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e994	I want to start by saying – and I have said that from this pulpit before – that the Christian People's Party is not allergic to cash support criticism. Because if this is the case, the cash support is inhibiting e.g. On integration, we're more than willing to do anything about it. That is why we are promoting this proposal – to exchange this five-year residence requirement with language training if you are to receive cash support. That was the same thing we did the last time we made proposals. Then we said that they had to take language training for less than three years to receive cash support. We show with that attitude that we're not allergic to criticism, but we want to do something about it. What surprises me is that the government parties and the Workers' Party will not make any changes that would actually have been positive in terms of integration. They're just maintaining five years' living requirements, but they're doing nothing more. What's also amazing is that you can't see that this makes a mistake for groups that don't need to take any integration measures. Because now we see that this turns out unintentionally. If a Norwegian citizen who has been a member of the population throughout his life, who has been in work and paid taxes, finds love outside the EEA area and marries, then the possibility of receiving cash support – for which all other parents have the opportunity – is lost because they found love outside the EEA. These may be munitions coming home. These may be Norwegian citizens who work in Norwegian enterprises abroad, outside the EEA territory. These may be Norwegian citizens who have worked internationally. So here you hit a group of people, and then you stretch your arms in the weather and say, no, we can't do anything about this. It can be seen that it has some unintended consequences, but the argument is that when establishing such schemes, it almost has to be found that it has an unfortunate impact on someone. We think it's too passive. You can suspect at least some parties to think that just making the cash payment as unfair as possible, it almost goes by itself. But it's not that simple. Fortunately, there are exceptions here. I am very pleased that the Socialist Left Party, which is basically opposed to the cash support, does not support the government parties when they simply impose a living requirement. SV actually supports Christian People's Party's proposals here because they don't want to double standards, and it says respect, all the time SV really is against cash support. I would also like to thank the Centre Party, which has been burdened and broken with the Christian People's Party in our fight for continuing to have this freedom of choice for parents – because that is what cash support is all about. It's about letting some parents have the opportunity to stay a little longer at home with their one-year-old, without being punished. It is said that you cannot pay parents to say no to a public welfare good. Yes, kindergartens are very important. We heard in the statement by the Minister for Gender Equality how many children we are really talking about – 91 pst. by all children go to kindergarten. Then there are some parents who want us to also maintain another well-being, that of being at home a little bit longer with their one-year-old. We believe that this should apply to all. But we take the criticism seriously. Therefore, we promote proposals for language training related to cash support. At least we don't stretch our arms in the weather and say, "Sorry, this seems wrong for some groups, but we actually have to live with that." If that's how it turns out wrong for some groups, we're doing what we can to fix it. And I've mentioned what groups there are here. There are a lot of people who are now disappointed that the majority are not willing to do anything about the unintended consequences of this. I am very pleased with the answer I received from the Minister for Children and Gender Equality two to three weeks ago, where she realized that it has some unintended consequences, and that this system should be evaluated. And she went quite far in saying that maybe we should discuss some exceptional provisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e1013	I would like to start by saying that the government, like the Christian People's Party, is fundamentally concerned with the ability of the families of children to determine their own lives. It's primarily based on the child's concern. We know that children are very different and have different needs, and it must be up to individual parents to consider what is best for their one-year-old. Therefore, it is important to assume that the cash support is primarily about the care of the child. At the same time, I have to say that I am very happy to hear the Christian People's Party say that you are not allergic to cash support criticism, and that you are open to see what you can do to strengthen integration. That, I think, is a very affordable approach. It also helps us to think a little new about how to ensure the family freedom of choice and good care for the child during the first year of life, while at the same time being able to motivate parents to go to work – motivate women, and especially immigrant mothers, to go to work. I support what has been said by the President-in-Office and several representatives of this House. I would also like to underline and support what Mr Bekkevold said, namely that we are following developments closely, and that in the announced evaluation we will assess how this system works and, if necessary, look at the unfortunate outcomes of the scheme, but we will come back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e1022	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e1028	Actually, the Council of State concluded its contribution with what has been my concern, namely the round we had in Storting's Question Time where I challenged the Council of State to look at the unintended consequences. She went a long way in saying that in an evaluation one will come back again to see if there is a need for some exceptions relating to this five-year requirement. Now I just want to challenge the Council of State when she thinks that we can be presented with such an evaluation. And does she still insist that there may seem to be a need for some exceptions?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e1033	I would like to refer to the example that the Christian People's Party and the representative Bekkevold have raised several times – about families where this requirement for living has unintended consequences, and where it may seem quite unreasonable. Now the scheme has to work a little bit before we start the evaluation. I want to add that this is also part of a whole. We're going to follow up the Ellingsetter Committee now and look at how we can help to make the families have a lot of noise and good arrangements to give them the best possible growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e1038	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e1056	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e1072	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e1084	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e1093	During the debate, Mr Knag Fylkesnes put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to the Storting with proposals for consent to participate in a decision of the EEA Committee on the inclusion of Regulation No. 2016/679 of the EEA Agreement.’ [[EU]] [[General Data Protection Regulation]] Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e1110	The Central Party and Red have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e1126	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Emilie Enger Mehl on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Emilie Enger Mehl on behalf of the Centre Party proposal No 3, from Torgeira Knag County on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to develop binding guidelines to ensure that public undertakings do not enter into agreements with companies which have as their principal business model the use of these privacy data for marketing purposes, without an agreement to limit the use of the data.’;» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e1159	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a new draft law which is identical to the texts agreed by the EU and EFTA on international law in the EEA Committee.’ [[personal data law]] Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e1176	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e3047	Alternatively, A and proposal No. 1, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a new bill for personal data law containing the same proposals that will strengthen privacy in Norway but without the link to Regulation No. 2016/679 and the establishment of the consistency mechanism in which the Council of Data Protection Supervisors may make binding decisions towards the Data Protection Supervisor.’ [[EU]] [[General Data Protection Regulation]] Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e3066	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e3080	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e3085	Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e3100	In Case No: 3 and 4 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e3109	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e3175	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e3185	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e3191	Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e3210	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Olav Urbø on behalf of the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No 2, from Freddy André Supreme Court on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to propose ways of strengthening the Norwegian provision of training for immigrants and to propose other measures for qualification for work, and to return to the Stortinge in an appropriate manner.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e3246	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 1, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to investigate the possibility of replacing the requirement for living related to the cash support with language training requirements.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e3267	Case No. 7 and 8 are the second time legal proceedings and relate to Acts 52 and 53. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-22.ana.ud376e3294	As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
