ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e105	Three permit applications are available: by the representatives of Espen Barth Eide, Vetle Wang Soleim and Morten Wold, on leave from 23 April to 27 April, all to attend meetings of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Strasbourg; On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave from 24 April to 26 April: For Buskerud County: Tone Heimdal Brataas For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Anders Riise For Oslo: Zaineb Al-Samarai
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e148	The representative, Mr Aasrud, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e153	On behalf of Jonas Gahr Støre, Audun Lysbakken, Hadia Tajik, Karin Andersen, Lise Christoffersen and myself, I have the honour to make a proposal on retirement from the first crown.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e158	The representative, Freddy André Øvstegård, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e163	On behalf of the representatives of Mona Fagerås, Karin Andersen and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a five-year national initiative for libraries for equal access to culture and knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e168	The representative of Audun Lysbakken will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e173	On behalf of representatives Karin Andersen, Nicholas Wilkinson, Petter Eide and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal to secure veterans in international operations after 2010 the right to appeal against decisions in cases of psychological damage resulting from international service.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e178	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16.00 until the current map has been processed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e198	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up for the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e207	The island watercourse lies beautifully in Hardanger, in an area where the vast majority of rivers are already being built. That is why this is an important matter, and I would like to thank the Committee for a good cooperation on this matter. As a landscape element in a wilderness area, the Baltic Sea watercourse is important. For example, in relation to the watercourse: several red-listed species requiring protection. On 28 August 2017, the Ministry of Oil and Energy rejected an application for permission to build Øystese power plants in the lower part of the Øystese watercourse. In addition, the Ministry rejected an application for permission to transfer water from the Vossadal Water in the upper part of the Baltic Sea Watercourse to the Black Water Regulatory Magazine in the Samnanger Watercourse. Then the department wrote: ‘The Baltic Sea watercourse has special qualities related to landscapes and open-air life. These are values that are important to preserve. Following an overall assessment, we have found that both applications are rejected for reasons of outdoor life, landscape and biodiversity’. That was a wise assessment. The establishment of a government platform for the extended government determined that the Baltic Sea watercourse should be protected and, in response to the Committee, the Council of State has also confirmed that this is a priority work. We're happy about that. This is a big day. The oesophagus watercourse shall be protected.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e223	I agree with most of what the rapporteur said in his statement, because even if we vote differently when we are going to vote in the matter this afternoon, there are really little differences between the parties in today's treatment. At all, this is a very positive case. Particular qualities of the eye must be permanently protected. This is one of the few surviving watercourses that go from mountain to fjord. It's just this unique combination that makes it not last to protect just parts of the watercourse, but that we need to protect it all. There are, as the rapporteur said in his statement, many red-listed species in the area, and the watercourse is important for the outdoors, especially for those who live there. That's why we in the Workers' Party were very happy that the government in August said no to power development, but we didn't think this was enough. You had to get the eyeball into the protective plan, so that the watercourse could be protected once and for all, and for future generations to benefit from the watercourse that you have today. That is why, together with the SV and the Greens, we promoted a proposal for a representative to get Øystese into the protection plan. It's a proposal we understand they've been led to in the government negotiations, because it's been included in the government statement, and so it's a very large majority behind the decision that's going to be made at some point to get the eyeball into the protection plan. With this, I would like to address the proposal by the Labour Party, together with the SV and the Greens/Greens/EFA.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e236	The representative of Åsmund Aukrust has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e241	The Central Party agrees with the majority that the Baltic Sea Watercourse has special qualities related to landscape and outdoor life, and the fact that the Baltic Sea Watercourse is one of the few unspoiled watercourses in Hordaland. The centre party's starting point has been to balance nature protection interests against local concerns, interests and wishes. Locally, there is support for the development of the lower part of the watercourse, but strong resistance to the expansion of the upper part. That is where the maximum protection values are located and an extension in the upper part could have a negative impact on the possibilities for extension in the lower part of the watercourse. The history of the watercourse also shows that, in supplementing the protection plan in 2009, there were very different considerations in terms of both protection and expansion. In the Central Party's balance between interests, we stand firm in our previous position that the best thing is to protect the upper part of the watercourse, but not the lower part – i.e. shared protection – so that that part of the watercourse with really high protection interests is respected, while the part of the watercourse that passes through a cultural landscape does not have the same protection interests and should not therefore be included in the watercourse protection plan. This is in line with the decisions taken both in the municipality of Kvam and in the county of Hordaland, which both point to the upper part of the watercourse and its particular value for the outdoor interests. It is an area that provides a basis for recreation and open-air activities throughout the region. Today, nearly 400,000 people have Bergsdalen and Kvamsfjella as their nearest open-air area. We also know that Hordaland has given up many watercourses for power generation, and the general interests of not expanding the whole Baltic Sea basin are, in our opinion, strong and need to be balanced against power deployment. Therefore, through today’s treatment, we will propose and support the protection and addition of the upper part of the watercourse to the protection plan. I'll bring this up with the proposal of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e256	The representative Ole André Myhrvold has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e261	From the mountains of Hardanger a river runs out into Hardangerfjorden, from mountain to fjord. For decades after decades, conservationists have struggled to allow the river to flow freely to the delight of nature and future generations. Soon they will be able to release the jubilee and celebrate – celebrate that their battle is crowned with victory. The Norwegian watercourse nature is our rainforest. After many years of hard-handed power development, we have a great responsibility to take care of much of what we have left. Two thirds of the watercourse nature is expanded, but fortunately we have managed to protect almost 400 watercourses. It's one of the largest and most important conservation services in this country. Norwegian environmental battles have been closely linked to the hearths of the landscape – the rivers that connected the countryside and the city, the life’s nerves in the country. As the conflicts grew, the recognition of the importance of taking care of some of these taxes in the future also grew. In the issue of the protection of the eye, all the parts of the Stortinget have now been for protection in some form. The problem is that we haven't been at the same time. Although we do not get a majority in favour of our proposal on the protection of the island here today, we actually get that, because after we presented our proposal on the protection of the island, the government has decided that the river should be protected. I'm not going to make it a habit – that's no reason – but today, I think it's appropriate to congratulate the government on the decision to protect the entire Baltic Sea watercourse. And I promise to bucket cakes and coffee, boiled on water from Øysteselva, on my colleagues in the Energy and Environment Committee on the day we finally establish that the power builders can only give up the idea of expanding the Baltic Sea basin. So congratulations to all those who have been on for eleven, for nature in all these years. They can now prepare the final victor. And congratulations also to the government, which is now preparing the final safeguard decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e276	I want to start by thanking the case spokesman – and not least thanking the representative Haltbrecken for a pleasant invitation to coffee. I look forward to that. I also expect that we will have this matter processed for the autumn. This has a history that goes back many years, and where the Christian People's Party has repeatedly supported proposals to oppose the development of this watercourse, but also to push on to get a protection. Sometimes a thing in the staging room loses, but it wins later. Today, the proposal that the Christian People's Party is behind with much of the opposition will be put to the vote, but the Council of State has said that one wants to come back to the Stortinget, and that this is a priority work. I look forward to that, because it's important for the districts it's about, it's important for the tourist interests in this area, it's important because it's a watercourse that has some unique qualities in a district where there's very few of the watercourses that run all the way from mountain to fjord, without being regulated. I'm looking forward to this case coming back again, and I'm glad that even if the Christian People's Party is voted in today's Chamber, we have won the case in the longer term. That's what's important.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e287	For the environment and for several parties, including the Greens, the protection of the Baltic Sea has been an important issue for many years. Rarely have I heard as many happy posts after each other in my short growing up time as I have just heard. I just have to agree with this by commending the government for having rejected the applications for development, and that the government statement now states that the protection plan for watercourses should be supplemented by the Baltic Sea watercourse. This is a hard-won victory for nature and open-air life. Ensuring this preservation of unique natural values means that this important natural area in the Bergens and Hardanger regions now remains without heavy technical intervention. So to both the Council of State of Søviknes and also the Left, who has certainly been a strong driver here: Thank you very much! But it's been a long fight. The watercourse has been threatened for a long time. The matter was up under the red-green government, and it was up in the previous growing-up period, when my party colleague Rasmus Hansson was the case rapporteur in the same matter and tried to get a majority, in cooperation with SV and Left. In recent years, we have seen an increase in interest in large hydroelectric power plants. Common to quite a few of the rivers that still run freely, is that there is relatively little power to pick up, while at the same time the protection values are high. The estuary is one of the most important and most valuable rivers that so far have not been protected, and it is a brilliant example of a river where an extension would taste little, but cost a lot. An expansion would produce current corresponding only to approx. 4 100 households. By comparison, Statoil's new Baltic sea wind project will produce electricity for 400,000 households, i.e. hundreds of times as many. As co-rapporteur on this matter, I would like to stress that the Green Party would like to have a decision on the protection of the eye here and now. Although the government has decided that they intend to protect the watercourse, like the other proposers here, we are impatient to get protection in place. So when the proposal is still voted down here today, we trust that the matter will in any case be followed up quickly by the government, and that we can soon consider this long battle over the Baltic Sea watercourse to be concluded – with a happy outcome.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e300	It is gratifying to hear the agreement in this room today. We have had many laps associated with the protection of watercourses. We have four protection plans that have been covered in the years 1973-93, and we have had supplements in 2005 and 2009. These are referred to as a comprehensive watercourse protection plan. In total there are 389 watercourses and watercourse sections, which represent a representative section of Norwegian watercourse nature. As referred to by the case rapporteur, I rejected on 28 August last year the extension of both the upper and lower parts of the Baltic Sea basin. The government's platform, as referred to, will now complement the protection plan for watercourses with the Baltic Sea watercourse. I have started work to supplement the protection plan for watercourses with the Østese watercourse and initially asked the NVE for an up-to-date assessment of the protection basis for the watercourse, inter alia. in the light of new information arising from the concession treatment of the hydropower plants under consideration in the watercourse. We're going to have a proper trial of a protection proposal, and I suggest that the proposition on the protection of the Pacific Ocean is promoted as soon as possible for the Storting. This will be a priority task in the autumn of 2018. The centre party only wants to protect the upper part, and I would like to point out in this connection that there are also values in the lower part of the watercourse that qualify for inclusion in the watercourse protection plan. The grounds for rejecting the application for the extension of the lower part were linked to the foot spray zone and the pelvic gap in Ørredalsfossen, which is of great value, and that an extension could lead to a risk that some of the most humid and vulnerable species there will be reduced or disappear. We also argued that the water strand itself is considered unspoiled from mountain to fjord, and this was added to the weight of the rejection. I look forward to coming back to Stortinget with a proposition as soon as possible related to the protection of the Øystese watercourse, and would like to take part in both coffee and cakes from the representative Lars Haltbrecken when we have to be in target.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e314	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e319	This I never thought I would say, but today the Council of State is talking about Søviknes as a real nature protector. Thank you for that! Of course, the invitation to cake and coffee, cooked on water from the Baltic Sea, also applies to the Council of State. I still have one question. I had a question in the questionnaire yesterday to the Council of State about the natural studies carried out by developers in the Baltic Sea basin, but also other watercourses that we have seen have been too deficient, and where we have depended on voluntary organisations being involved. I think the answers I received yesterday were a little vague. That's why I want to hear a little bit more from the Council of State about what he's going to do to ensure that these naturalisations are as good as possible before the decision is taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e326	There are clear requirements for investigations, not least impact assessments and biodiversity monitoring, when applying for the development of Norwegian watercourses. At the same time, it is important to have a perspective on the fact that the costs associated with the obligation to investigate, concession applications, must be proportionate to the action to be taken. There has been a discussion about this, and it is important from our side that the NVE in its work on the different environments, the companies that do this type of mapping, contribute to increased knowledge. Finally, the respondent, the applicant, is responsible for fulfilling the investigation obligation and helping us to have a good enough decision-making basis, which can be used both by the NVE and ultimately by the Ministry of Oil and Energy in the cases brought before us.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e333	I thank you for the answer and would just like to say that I look forward to coffee and cake also with the Council of State and the final protection decision for Øystese. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e338	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox The President would say that even if a person can almost be coffee-dried by listening to the debate on case No. 1, we now proceed to case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e358	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up for the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e367	We will now discuss Documents 8:107 S, which is a proposal from Red on power cables to the rest of the world. As spokesman for this case, I will first be allowed to thank the Committee for the smooth and straightforward handling of the matter, a matter which has also been highlighted in the debate on the third energy market package of the EU. The debt in question, which is presented in brief, is ‘to suspend the treatment of the NorthConnect concession’ until there are several conditions around the consequences of such a cable. It applies to power running in Norwegian power plants and to total effects it will have on Norwegian watercourse nature, changes in current price and possible impact on power-consuming industry and the effect of NorthConnect in conjunction with NordLink and NSN Link. In order to own and operate power interconnectors abroad, plant concession and international concession are required under the Energy Act. When NorthConnect has now applied for a concession for a connection between Norway and the United Kingdom, the Ministry of Oil and Energy has asked the NVE to assess the case. The NVE then sent the matter out on the phone, with a deadline of 15 April 2018. We've already been informed through the media of some of the hearing statements that have come. Then the NVE will deliver its assessment to the Ministry of Oil and Energy, which in turn makes decisions on the matter. The framework for such concession management has been given by Stortinget. This includes: the consequences of a possible price increase for the power-intensive industry and the efficiency of the water environment are assessed, and the consequences of the tighter link between the exchange capacity to the countries around us and the Norwegian power market should also be highlighted. In addition, the environmental impacts of Norwegian watercourses shall be addressed consistently, as was done in the concession management of Statnett’s planned external links with Germany and the United Kingdom. This may lead to the conclusion that a possible concession decision to establish new external links must contain an assessment of environmental and price effects as well as consequences for the operation of the power system, security of supply, income and expenditure and other effects arising from the framework of the size of the concession management. In the light of what has been done here, what has been suggested by the proposer will be highlighted by the concession management, and a number in the Committee will therefore be too likely to be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e380	Thank you to the President-in-Office for a good presentation. In the context of the EU's third energy market package, the Workers' Party and the Greens' Greens' Party concluded an agreement with the government parties. There is an agreement in many points, and the content has been thoroughly debated in the public, to put it mildly, so the content is well known. I still want to pick up some of those points. It is important that decisions on any new foreignables remain a sovereign decision taken by the Norwegian authorities. Any new cables shall be socio-economically viable and experience gained and detailed analyses shall be carried out before new connections can be established. The significance of this for any new concession applications must be assessed in the context of the examination of these applications. State networks shall own and operate all future interconnections and shall be included in the Energy Act. So when we are dealing with this Document 8 today: I believe that the agreement concluded by the Green Party and the Labour Party with the government parties is a better way of dealing with these issues than through the detached Document 8. The Labour Party will therefore not support the Red and Moxnes proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e391	Shopping abroad is what Norway has been doing for hundreds of years. To act forcefully with our neighboring country we have done since the 1960s. This is something that both Norway and its nation, power companies and not least consumers have earned. One of the main arguments for external relations is that it strengthens the security of supply of Norwegian consumers and industry. It may be hard for a Westerner to think that there are opportunities for it to stop counting, but there's enough transparency for it. We're going to sell our surplus power. We buy in when we need it, or when the power is cheap. It is also possible to take into account in this debate that the income from international relations has been 2.8 billion in the last five years. And of these, $674 million. kr went to reduced network rental for electricity customers. Following today's concession regime, new applications will focus on the socio-economic profitability of the project as well as price and environmental impact, impact on the operation of the power system, security of supply and the revenue and expenditure of the project. The essential thing is to ensure a good balance between the development of new power generation and new electricity transmission links to the rest of the world. Without a sufficient balance, the basis for investment in the power supply is weakened. I think today's legislation is more than good enough to make a good and proper assessment of the application for NorthConnect.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e400	As you know, it is not the first time this House is debating power cables, nor this year. This was done by Stortinget as part of the Acer debate, where there was a settlement between the government parties and the Workers' Party, where it is said that Statnet will own and operate all future inter-territorial relations. How this should be done, all the time when NorthConnect is in concessional treatment, there is some uncertainty about. The position of the centre party has been and is that the foreign connections are de facto part of the central network, the so-called transmission network, and are thus to be built, owned and operated by Statnet. Otherwise, the consequences may be that everyone has his project, and that no one takes full responsibility. One can slowly wonder where the responsibility is when we already have two cables under development that will increase the foreign capacity to about 30 pst. With NorthConnect it will increase to another 35 pst. The EU exchange capacity target is known to be 10 pst. It is claimed that the cables are socio-economically profitable. Payable for whom? Few Norwegian power customers and scarcely powerful industry, and that is probably why Hydro has now come onto the track and warns against the project, because it will have a negative impact on Hydro’s factories in the West and in central Norway if the power prices are increased and security of supply is weakened. When Stortinget dealt with changes to the Energy Act in the autumn of 2016, the Workers' Party, together with the Centre Party and SV, commented on comments that required experience and thorough analysis before the new exchange capacity came up. Now, apparently, the concession treatment and the requirements it imposes are being met. We also cooperated with the Workers' Party on comments, pointing out that new connections in the same markets where one already has established foreign connections weaken the profitability and values of existing connections. These realities have not changed. I record that Lyse-chef Eimund Nygaard, who is one of the owners of the project, told the newsletter Montel that they are not going to drop the project, despite the agreement the Workers' Party has concluded with the government parties. There in the farm it is assumed that the concession treatment goes as planned and that laws do not have retroactive effect. There is no doubt that the already adopted increase in spare capacity will have an impact on the operation of the Norwegian power system and on Norwegian power customers, with which we have previously said that we should gain experience. The least size should therefore do in such an unexplained situation is put the concessional treatment at rest until we have experience with the cables that are already under construction. I would like to take up with this the proposals from the Center Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e421	The representative Ole André Myhrvold has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e426	There might not be as much coffee in this debate. Since the 1960s we have had power connections with other countries. The existing inter-national links to the continent, as well as the two under construction, are important for security of supply and the environment. Until now, the main arguments for building cross-border connections for better power exchange have been to ensure stable power supply. Norway has been vulnerable, for example: the 2003 electricity crisis. At that time, the very expensive and highly polluting mobile gas power plants gave us a poor exchange of power. Without the interconnections we have today, we in Norway would also have more pressure on natural values when building several power plants and several larger ponds with multi-annual magazine. The fact that we have been able to export in profit years and import this year with a deficit has served our economy and our nature. Today, however, we are in a slightly different situation. We have large exchange capacity with the rest of the world. Statnet concludes in its 2017 network development plan that there is no basis for new intergovernmental connections now. That is why I would also like to refer to the comment that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV agreed on in connection with Prop. 98 L for 2015-2016: «The members of the Committee of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party agree with the government's consideration as expressed in the Report. St. 25 [[2015-2016]] In addition, new cable projects need to be balanced against Norwegian industrial development, workplaces and fossil energy phase-out opportunities in Norway. I have this week visited two of the companies that depend on stable power supplies at predictable prices, Hydro Aluminium at Karmøy and TiZir in Odda. Both are enterprises that have been putting tough on the environment in the last few years. We must ensure a power policy that ensures the survival of these companies and the ability to continue to invest. That is why we believe that the treatment of the NorthConnect concession request must be suspended until we have gained experience from the intergovernmental connections under construction.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e444	There are some things that it's important to remember in this case. Firstly, it is important to bear in mind that all cables are to be subject to concession treatment, and one should address the consequences of a possible price increase for power-consuming industry, impacts on water performance and consequences for the exchange capacity towards the countries around us when we become more closely connected to the Norwegian power market. This is currently in progress. The power company that supplies electricity to cables has power generation there, among other things. the environmental impact is assessed, and there are now conditional audits of all Norwegian power plants to be completed in 2022. The main limitation of power execution will be the power plant and the permissions, not the cables. Then it's important to remember – actually, the big thing about – that the most important advantage of the water force is that it can be regulated. Regulation may not be a problem in itself. This is an advantage that we have to use, which is good for us and for the districts where power generation is happening today. In the future there will be more power in the network that cannot be regulated, and then it will be necessary to supplement it with a renewable power that can be regulated. I would also like to remind you of one last thing: Norway is now closely integrated with the other Nordic countries in the co-operation we have, among other things. through North Pool. It has a lot of capacity, which means that today we have a large transmission system, among other things. to Denmark, which carries out its distribution of cables, e.g. to the United Kingdom. It is also an important element to have in mind when these matters are being debated. The Christian People's Party will not support any of the proposals in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e457	The Greens say no to the pointless destruction of Norwegian nature. We are not going to build up more Norwegian nature to further increase our exports. That is why the Green Party is promoting a proposal that directly ensures that cables do not become a driver of destruction just to increase power exports. There is today a major expansion of both wind and hydropower, which only increases the Norwegian power surplus. This destruction is actively promoted by the government parties, but also with the support of the Workers' Party and the Centre's Party for periods. The Green Party has promoted a number of proposals that will provide Norwegian nature with real protection against further unnecessary destruction. Norway can well have a sustainable renewable future if we streamline and use our energy smarter and produce new renewable energy without destroying more nature. Wind power at sea and solar power are now the major opportunities ahead for Europe, which Norway too must systematically invest in. The Green Party is concerned that nature considerations are to be given priority when future decisions on both cables and power generation are to be taken. The effort to make Europe a low-carbon society also falls on us, but fortunately we do not need to expand more power generation in order for this to succeed. We already have a surplus in the power market today. In addition, we have a huge potential for energy efficiency improvement of about 10–30 TWh, and we can extract another 7–20 TWh by upgrading existing hydropower plants. We can use this surplus of power to help Europe with their conversion. There's something about the chicken and the egg here. The Green Party does not want us to carpet the seabed with cables to the continent and dry all rivers to fill these cables. The situation is that Europe is undergoing a solid energy transition, and Norway has a potential for an even greater surplus of power. In that case, it may be rational to build more cables, but the cables should not be the determining factor for the decisions on further production. But today, as we have a surplus of power, we want to stress that the cables are not to be built and then press through new expansions. Natural habitat loss, species loss and diversity must be halted. We need to base our decisions on socio-economic profitability and within the framework of a holistic ecosystem-based management. That is how we can use our renewable energy resources in a way that creates the greatest possible value for society at the lowest possible cost – without being at the expense of nature or future generations. With this I address our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e472	The representative Per Espen Stoknes has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e478	Norway’s powerful industry exports 118 billion. kr per year, creating thousands of jobs, is the industrial basis for innovation and industrial development in forward-looking industries and ensures employment and housing along our coast. If the NorthConnect cable is built, it will vacuum the West for power. Hydro writes in its opinion that the cable will have a negative effect on Hydro’s factories in the West and in Central Norway because the power price can increase and security of supply is weakened. In addition, Hydro says that the experience from Statnett’s cables to England and Germany now being built should be reviewed before the start of the NorthConnect project. The same is true of Statnett, the same is true of LO, and the Labour Party has adopted, and that is what Red proposes – not to analyse the effects until we have built the cables to England and Germany, but wait for their effect to come, and then consider whether or not to build NorthConnect. In the application NorthConnect itself writes that the cable will give a price increase of 1.7 øre per kWh. For industry, that means 600 million. kr more in expenditure per year. In addition, the power of cables to England and Germany is 4 øre per kWh. Increased exchange of power abroad also leads to greater pressures on nature. Area changes are the main threat to 80 pst. of the red-listed species in Norway. There are still large expansions of power generation in Norway that provide extensive and negative interventions in Norwegian nature. The agreement concluded with the Government Parties by the Workers' Party and the Green Party states that Acer is necessary to gain experience and carry out thorough analyses before the capacity to exchange is further increased. Today, the Workers' Party has the opportunity to keep its promise that NorthConnect will not be built until we can gain experience with the two cables that are not yet built. They don't. I think a lot of voters expect a clear answer as to why they're failing their promise. Red wants a predictable and low electricity price, to secure Norwegian industrial workplaces and to ensure a living nature. I'm asking the other parties in the hall to listen. It's no shame to turn around. Vote for the minority proposals put forward by the Committee. We put ourselves behind them -- they make sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e491	There are two perspectives in the previous speeches that are important. The representative Stoknes from the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European We have talked about the Baltic Sea watercourse before today, which is an example of how we do it – take care of nature. In the future, a major technology development is taking place that makes it possible to produce a lot of renewable energy without necessarily having to do as much natural interference as we have done in the last decades. The representative of Moxnes from Red, who is a proposer, is talking about industry, and I think that is very good. Industry in Norway is important. It represents many jobs, but it is also important to drive innovation, to create new technologies that we need. Aluminium has come to stay in the construction sector in the world, among other things, and how we produce it, is important. And we are faced with new opportunities to use other energy carriers, other energy sources to produce, among other things. the essential aluminium. But we also have industrial production in Norway where we need to import a lot of materials, which, with our powerful industry, we could produce greener and better in Norway. That there's a lot of possibilities, there's a keyword here. But we don't see too offensive an industry standing knocking on our doors and saying that they want to produce it and that, so here's a task in common to develop greener industry. Speaking of electricity prices: the industry has no challenge today to conclude long-term agreements at favourable prices in the industrial sector with the power suppliers, so we are doing well in Norway. As far as regional cooperation is concerned, it is the pure energy from which we are to develop more in a Europe that has too much fossil production. This is where Norway can contribute, whether it is with some renewable power, it is part of it, with – in particular – technology or with our way of managing it. It is precisely the regional government in the Nordic region that Europe now wants to re-establish and implement. That is why it is very important to continue regional cooperation in the Nordic region, to have a strong track record of regional cooperation and to participate and contribute to it. The ELC system developed between Norway and Sweden is an example of not just needing national instruments, which become protectionist. If we are to achieve renewable and clean energy, we need to think more together, and that is what this is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e502	NorthConnect has applied for a concession for a connection between Norway and the United Kingdom with a capacity of 1400 MW. The proposal for a representative to be discussed here today refers to the possible societal consequences of the construction of NorthConnect, and that these need to be investigated prior to concessional treatment. Particular attention is drawn to the consequences of increased prices for power-intensive industries and the environmental impact of more power driving. These are just issues that are assessed through the ordinary concession treatment. Any decision on concessions to establish new international connections shall include an assessment of both price and environmental impacts, as well as consequences for the operation of the power system, security of supply, revenue and expenditure of the project and other effects. The government is concerned with the balance between the development of new renewable power generation and foreign tables, including the consideration of price, power price, for both private customers, industry and the specific power-intensive industry. Let me remind you of a key point in the Energy Communication from the Government in 2016. It was putting the force into action. Norway is in a special position when it comes to renewable power generation. We have a surplus of renewable energy. It gives us a competitive advantage over – in reality – the rest of the world. In particular, the powerful industry benefits, as we know it historically in Norway, but it also offers opportunities for new industries with power-intensive operations, such as: data centres. Concession treatments require a thorough review of all social benefits and costs of the project, and a final decision on any concession must be made on the basis of this. Only projects that are socially viable shall be granted concession. Concession requests are also sent to the hearing and hearings are held where those affected can promote their views. You're in that process right now. As far as NorthConnect is concerned, the consultation deadline was April 15th, but I am aware that Statnett has also asked for an extended consultation period of two months, just to go into the effects on our entire power system when we are at the current stage, with a lot of new power development in Norway and two foreign tables under construction. I have also, after the debate on the third energy market package a little while ago, been clear to the NVE that they must make a very comprehensive and thorough assessment of the importance of NorthConnect for our power system as a whole. I am concerned that there will be a thorough and good decision-making basis before the Department decides whether NorthConnect will be granted a concession or not. The purpose of concession treatment is to provide this broad decision-making basis. It helps to ensure a controlled development of infrastructure between Norway and the rest of the world. At the same time, the system is an open process, giving everyone affected by the action the opportunity to make their views and input. The NorthConnect concession request is being examined and has been consulted, but the consultation period has been extended for some actors. It is important that we act neatly towards the actors in such cases, and it is important that there is predictability, and that we now deal with NorthConnect in line with the current legislation and other frameworks. When examining the third energy market package, a majority of the Committee stated that the Department had to finalise the NorthConnect application before promoting a legislative amendment, that it would in future be Statnet as owner and operate all Norwegian foreign relations. The government will follow the Storting decision and deal with NorthConnect's application in line with the legislation and these leaders from Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e523	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e528	The Council of State refers to the concerns that are taken into consideration when considering concessions and other matters. That's very good. I want to challenge him a little bit in the history of some similar projects that we have had, and especially the project NorGer – which was also developed by players in the power industry in South Norway, which was a power cable between Norway and the rest of the world that was repaired, and which was sold to Statnett when they got a majority, but which has not been realized in the future. This was a hall that happened in 2011, and the price – which I do not know – had been passed on to those who finance Statnet, and then to the seventh and last of those who pay online rent. What does the Council of State think of the process we can learn from in the current situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e537	It is important to stress that we have a power market and that we have a deregulated market in Norway. This means that there have been periods during which different actors have been able to apply for foreign connections, as well as Statnet. The Stortinget has now been clear, through the treatment of the third energy market package, that it is Statnet that will have this role in the future, as the owner of the transmission network in Norway. What assessments have been made in Statnett exactly related to NorGer, I cannot give a direct answer here and now. However, there are also profitability assessments that Statnett makes when they sit and assess particularly foreign connections, while taking into account the whole of the Norwegian power system – just to ensure that we have good security of supply, and that we can export the profits we have from renewable energy that are now under development.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e544	The Council of State says that concession treatment should comply with the applicable legislation, and that is good. Then he also says that the third energy market package of the EU agrees that the Energy Act will state that the transmission network is to be owned by Statnet. This is in so far as the Central Party agrees. But what does the Council of State think about now that you might choose to grant a concession to a private actor, and what do you do? Will this amendment have retroactive effect, as the Light Director believes it should not receive?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e549	In this regard, it is important to make it clear from my point of view that we are now dealing with NorthConnect's application for the legislation in force when they were applying for and which still applies. With regard to the question of the future, there could be different processes going on between the owners of NorthConnect and Statnet. I don't want to go into it right now. It'll be up to NorthConnect to decide on further activity on the day we decide their concession requests. They might get a concession, they might not get a concession. We have to come back to this matter when we have completed the concession applications, and they will be dealt with according to all the criteria that have now been referred to in the debate, both from the case rapporteur and from the undersigned.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e556	It's a little unusual for the Progress Party to say that you have to open up to take over private business, property or infrastructure, as you might say here if the concession treatment ends positively. The question is: if the concession treatment ends positively, has the Council of State, the Ministry and the Government considered how to take over this infrastructure, and at what price?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e563	Now we have a concession request — or, in reality, two, both a plant application and a foreign-exchange application — for treatment. That's what the focus is now, and then we'll be able to discuss what the representative here is dealing with, once we've clarified the concession requests. This is from my point of view not the time and place to go into the question that was now raised here, which is of a commercial nature. It is not suitable for an open-room discussion in Stortinget at that time in the proceedings.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e568	I want to challenge the Minister of Oil and Energy on what is in the government's own big message, The Force for Change, which is the last big message in the field that sees this in a whole. There the government writes that ‘there is a need to gain experience and carry out thorough analyses before the capacity to exchange is further increased.’ So we know that the two cables that are under construction are not finished until 2021. How will the Council of State ensure that we have experience in the operation of these cables before a decision is taken, when it is expected that the decision will be taken in half a year to perhaps one year?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e579	The time frame for handling NorthConnect applications will depend on how the basis is gradually assessed by the NVE in the assignment we have given them for the time being. Now they have had the matter consulted, and then the answers to the hearing will answer whether there is a need for further clarifications, or whether the NVE has sufficient knowledge to advise the Oil and Energy Ministry in the case. What we need to ensure is that we both gain experience and analyse the overall power system and its impact from a possible NorthConnect cable, so that we have a broad and sound decision-making basis to decide on the NorthConnect concession applications. That is what lies within the framework to which Stortinget has joined in previous cases and through the treatment of the third energy market package.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e586	Changing governments have allowed a gradual decline of Norwegian nature over many decades. These non-interventional areas currently account for only 5 pst. by South Norway. At the same time, valuable wetlands and particularly unique watercourse nature have disappeared on a large scale. That is why the Green Party is today promoting its own proposal asking the government to introduce the costs of nature intervention as a crucial criterion in assessing whether NorthConnect should be granted a concession for the development of a cable to Scotland. I notice that the Council of State here repeatedly mentions socio-economic profitability as the criterion. But what about nature considerations? What will the Council of State do to raise nature concerns in the treatment of concessions?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e593	Let me start by stressing that when the representative expresses it in such a way that we have allowed the degradation of Norwegian nature, I believe that what we have done, through alternating governments and large-scale population, is to establish a sensible management of Norwegian natural resources, which has helped us to develop Norwegian society for more than a hundred years, from the start of hydroelectric development in the 1890s. It's served Norway well. Managing natural resources is one of the great advantages Norway has, because we have rich natural resources, and we have a solid governance that takes into account both growth and economic development and environmental values related to our nature. It is also being done in any matter relating to the Energy Act, whether it concerns the development of hydropower, the development of wind power or the development of the grid itself, which provides the basis for linking different renewable productions to our electricity grid and to the rest of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e600	NorthConnect very much wants the state on the owner's side, there are open arms. Then it would be easier to finance the cable, because then Statnett can budget with future increased network rental. So they're very ready for this, while Hydro is very skeptical. They point out that the cable can export close to a tenth of Norway’s total power production right out of the country, sold to Scotland at a high price, to the detriment of Norwegian industry along our entire coast. There is little help with two months of additional consultation when we can only gain in three years' time experience with the English cable and the German cable. The question is: Will the government wait until we can gain experience from the German and English cable before considering whether to grant a concession or not to NorthConnect? Only then, in 2021 at the earliest, can we gain experience. So – will it be harvested, or will it be decided before the cables are operational?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e607	The further concessional treatment of NorthConnect’s application will clarify the process duration. What we're going to have on the table before we make a decision is a good, wide-ranging decision-making basis that takes account of the considerations that the Stortinget has previously listed are to be taken into account when dealing with non-residential housing, in addition to the perspectives that are underlined, on socio-economic profitability. There will be no exact time for the conclusion of the NorthConnect request by my side in this debate because we simply do not know when this broad and good decision-making basis is available. Now it is the NVE that has been given a mandate to investigate the matter and to make an adjustment for us. I await that setting before I want to give a response to further proceedings.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e612	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e630	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up for the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e639	First, I must thank the Committee for its good cooperation in this matter. We live in a time when we are experiencing more and more extreme weather, more rainfall, more floods and more destruction. Both individuals, communities and businesses face major challenges and economic losses related to racial and flood damage each year. The Committee agrees with the need for increased focus on flood protection measures with a focus on long-term and national work on flood and step-by-step prevention and that this has an increasing economic impact on the big society. The security of the inhabitants in this context is a public responsibility and, as a result, the State must assume greater financial responsibility when flooding, race and natural damage affect local communities. It is also agreed that the State must assist local and regional authorities in the event of major natural disasters and that we must be prepared for more extreme weather in the future. The NVE is currently assisting municipalities and society in tackling the challenges of flooding and migration. It is therefore gratifying that a unanimous committee proposes that the Storting should ask the government through the NVE to continue the monitoring of vulnerable rural areas in order to strengthen the knowledge base. I'm happy with what we've done in the committee. I would like to address the proposals that the Central Party has with other parties in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e654	The representative Sandra Borch has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e659	We see that climate change leads to more rainfall, more heavy rainfall and extreme weather. We must therefore be prepared that floods and escapes will occur more frequently. The NVE has an important task of identifying risks and preventing and limiting damage caused by floods and slips, which is a consequence of, among other things. climate change. It is important that NVE Facilities have staff with the right experience and competence to advise municipalities and entrepreneurs and to assist in planning. Many municipalities have not carried out danger zone monitoring and can benefit from NVE in land planning to ensure against the risks associated with slip and floods in watercourses. In December 2016, the NVE submitted a report stating that today’s level of funding does not allow many hedging projects to be implemented at this stage. Furthermore, the NVE suggests that increased appropriations could lead to a reduction in the cost to society of floods and events, both in the form of direct costs for the repair of buildings and infrastructure and in the cost of infrastructure disruptions and in the form of reduced costs to society as a result of fewer life losses in the event of accidents. This is the main reason why the Workers' Party in its alternative state budget, which unfortunately did not receive a majority, proposed an increase of 158.9 million. NOK to just this. There are fewer consequences of prevention, and it is cheaper compared to repair in retrospect. How important the NVE's work is can we read about in today's newspaper, where they checked the flood protection along the Glomma. They found damage, defects, maintenance kits and inoperative pumps. Unfortunately, this is not unique to Glomma. A lot of people are in that situation. In this case, there is a minority proposal to set up an additional fund. The Workers' Party is not in favour of that proposal. We believe that annual budgetary decisions, where a set of discretionary grants to cover costs of natural damage and other extraordinary events, and that the Storting has the ability, in particular, to grant extra funds, are a good arrangement. Again: I hope that the next time we get support to go in with funds to take measures that reduce the flood and escape risk, and that we not only discuss the effects of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e674	Nature has challenged us throughout all generations, and we have increasingly challenged nature. We challenge by building houses in places where our ancestors could never imagine busting themselves, and we build bridges and roads where technology and machines now allow us to blow up and strain structures above. At the same time, we challenge nature through man-made climate change. It's wetter and wilder, and it's getting more challenging weather, which in turn leads to race and pace and devastation affecting our communities. As you can see, the Christian People's Party is relevant, in the sense that we have to pay attention to these challenges. A knowledge-based approach to natural forces that surrounds us will be needed in the future, and we need to accept more fully that it is not certain that we can build and live anywhere in this country. Therefore, it is important for the NVE to continue its monitoring of exposed areas in order to get a better overview of the threat of flood and racial protection measures. We must continue to follow these with concrete measures. In the future, we also have to make sure that we acquire knowledge about where we can buset us, and where we should not establish buseting, and have good analyses when infrastructure is to be established. The goal must be that for new measures these conditions are checked out, so that extraordinary repairs after destruction do not equally become a reality. However, the most important thing will be what we do along the big lines, where we take climate change seriously. This gives us plenty of time to discuss and set our mark on when the climate message is to be presented in the Storting in less than too long. This will make the theme more preventable, not how much money we should spend on repairing the site. Nevertheless – it is through this Document 8 proposal that we are invited to take a decision today, and I am pleased that there is a joint committee that sees that there is a shared responsibility we must take when both race, flood and pace frame our inhabitants and our infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e689	I'm glad the Stortinget put the search lights on the flood and left. It is beyond doubt that we are going to experience more extreme weather, floods, precipitation and subsequent destruction in the future. It is therefore important that politicians have a proactive role when it comes to this issue – not only in the Grand Duchy, but at all levels of administration. I am pleased that so many municipalities and county councils take this responsibility with state authorities. I would like to remind you that municipalities have a responsibility in their spatial planning when it comes to building residential areas, infrastructure, industrial areas and other areas that can be affected by extreme weather. In my own home country, West Agder, we've been hit by extreme weather on several occasions in recent years. The most famous was just when the new ageing period started, when there was a large flood in the South. Before that, we do not have to go back further than until 2015, when the border municipalities between West Agder and Rogaland were hit hard. In Flekkefjord and Kvinesdal, two bridges collapsed. We saw pictures of an older woman who was taken out of her house in a tractor shed that was raised above the water. That is why I am very pleased that the government has an offensive flood and escape policy. In the period 2014–2017, twice as much money has been allocated for flood and scrapping protection as it was in the period 2010–2013. That doesn't necessarily mean that we're in the goal. Much has been done, and one has come a long way, and although the appropriations have been doubled, there is always a need to focus more on this area. Against this background, I am pleased that we are now asking the government to review the legislation for compensation in the event of flooding, race and natural damage to the county municipalities. A practical consequence of this may be that the State assumes greater financial responsibility when such natural damage affects the county municipalities disproportionately. At least I promise that I will follow this closely, and I look forward to the outcome of the regulatory review. Then we'll have a discussion about the way forward once the review is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e702	Since the first report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change came in 1990, we have been well aware of the consequences of our greenhouse gas emissions. We have known that our emissions destabilise the climate. We know we have to act, that emissions have to be cut. But for too long we have allowed ourselves to make excuses. For too long we have allowed ourselves to wait for new technologies. For a long time we have expected someone else to take responsibility and cut the emissions another time. The climate report, which the government presented before the summer last year, and which we are going to deal with at the beginning of May, is historic. This is the first climate notification where a government does not make a single new proposal on how to cut emissions of our own greenhouse gases – not one proposal! That's a little bit of an honorable way to be historic. The government can't excuse itself because it didn't know, because it knows better than anyone else before them. They have much more research reports to learn from, and they no longer have to deal only with future consequences. If the government had lifted its eyes, it would see that the world is changing. It would see that the climate has changed, that we've got tougher raindrops, that the danger of landslides and gorges has increased. It no longer lasts, unfortunately, just cutting emissions, we also have to learn to live with some climate change. Then more than beautiful words and promises are needed on Dagsrevyen – as when government members met flood victims at the beginning of October last year – promises that were elegantly broken when the state budget was presented a few days later. There is a need for action, and there is a need for money to live with and deal with the climate change that we have been so late in averting. This adaptation we can't expect others to do for us. We have to do it ourselves, and then it is very regrettable that the majority in this room will not take the responsibility we have by spending more money, so that we can reduce the damage to climate change that is already happening.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e715	The discussion of climate is important, and we are in the middle of it. We are now in the process of negotiating the so-called climate communication, or the climate strategy, as it actually is. By 2030, there is a great deal of consensus in this room that we are going to do big domestic cuts in Norway, but also in cooperation with the countries around us in Europe. This is a great effort that everyone around the world is responsible for, and about which we have to cooperate. It is not right, as the representative Haltbrecken says, that we in this room do not take into account the seriousness and will not act. Climate adaptation is part of the climate challenge. There has been a public investigation on, inter alia: flood management and climate adaptation. It says, among other things. on in the new Declaration of Government, the Jeløya Declaration, and as far as I have understood, both the Minister for Oil and Energy and the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment are in the process of preparing a legislative work to be carried out in the course of a year. It is important to give municipalities a better piece of legislation and a clearer part of their responsibility to prevent and meet the climate challenges we face, but also to address the more regular floods and steps that are more independent of the climate challenges in Norway. The knowledge base is therefore particularly important, and over several years we have allocated more money to develop it, and Norway’s watercourse and energy directorate is doing a formidable job of developing tools for municipalities. Many have followed in both excitement and a little more impatience on what is happening to the Man in More and Romesdal – or as some say: The Sailor – who is struggling to get rid of the roof, and around it there is a lot of resources put in to help the municipality and the county council with the challenge. So prevention, competence, security projects and site development are important, and then it's important to give money – and we've filled in. With regard to the state compensation, it is also true that we have not rigged ourselves with an insurance scheme in Norway. We have to take the challenges when they come. It is important that the municipalities do not leave anything to do to send the bill to the state. That burden-sharing is important. It may be that there are opportunities to set aside funds and other funds, but as of today we have to make sure that we can take the bill when something happens. We need to prevent more, and we need to spend more money on innovation in the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e726	I want to start by thanking the case spokesperson, the committee and the majority. I would also like to thank you for not having coffee on the surface water we are discussing here. I am very pleased that there is a mass mass and a collective committee that acknowledges that there are some challenges – at a time when we know that we need to cope with more climate change, when we know that there is more rain and more extreme weather, and that the rain that comes is going to get tighter where it comes, and that we have some challenges against municipalities and county councils that we are forced to come back to and improve, because we are forced to get burden-sharing in a better way. I'm very happy about that. There are two proposals today that a joint committee is behind. The one thing is about how the NVE should map and follow up. It's an important suggestion because it's a big aftertaste, and we know that it's important for the municipalities to have this important subject in the work they're doing to adapt their areas. The second proposal is about how we can better step forward when the counties become disproportionately hard. I think I've also been updated for the last year. We have had the events in Agder, to which several representatives have referred in the debate. It also has our events in my home country this summer, in Development. Food land that had been worked out over a thousand years was exposed to enormous damage to the infrastructure of both the municipality and the county, and the kids in the village lost the only proper assembly place, the football course. I don't think that's the last time we see this, and we're forced to have good processes for how we can solve these challenges better in the future. I'm very happy that a joint committee is able to come up with good suggestions, and I'm very excited about what's going to happen when we see closer to the legislation. I can tell that the Christian People's Party will follow it on, because this is an area I don't think we're done talking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e739	Unfortunately, politicians around the world tend to ignore costs and problems that are well ahead of time. The horizon is typically three to four years. The choice of comfort zone is often given higher priority than the needs that are vital for future generations, such as: the need for a stable climate or intact turf area. Just flooded and slid give us a taste of what's waiting for us if we don't grab hold of the climate fight right now. The rapporteurs are quite right that there is a need for new measures and increased allocations for flood and rapid prevention, so that we in the Greens support the initiative and the proposal. At the same time, there is little doubt that the extent of this problem will be much greater in the future than this proposal overlooks. The temperature rise we're about to trigger has only begun so far. Nevertheless, the consequences are already felt throughout Norway in terms of more frequent floods, several steps, increased costs and more uncertainty for people travelling to work and school through outlying areas. Many have built their house on a plot that was considered safe 15 years ago, but those who live there suddenly feel that their house is threatened by natural disasters in a climate that has become unpredictable and dangerous. Flow and scrap prevention is an example of a field in which it is obviously more tricky to prevent than to operate and repair all the time after the damage has happened. Therefore, it is paradoxical that the most important prevention measure by all has not been the subject of either the suspension or specific debate here today. If we really wanted to go to the root of the problem, we should really be dealing with today's issue of flood and rapid prevention together with the Greens' proposal to stop oil exploration, which was debated this winter. As one of the world's largest exporters of greenhouse gas emissions, Norway is also one of the world's largest exporters of global flood and racial destruction, including our own country. It could therefore be considerably more tidy to debate Norwegian contributions to trigger floods and races together with our new solutions and attempts to stop them. I am afraid Norway has come out as a net contributor to the disasters, not a net preventer. We in the Greens do not get a majority in favour of a clear and numerical increase in the future years' efforts to prevent floods and slips, as we propose together with the Centre Party. The decisions taken here today and the nomination of the Committee are, after all, a step forward, and these comments and decisions should make it totally irrelevant for the government to try to cut back on the appropriations for racial and step-by-step prevention, as they did in the draft government budget for 2018.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e751	It could have been tempting to enter some of the connections from Stoknes’ last post. I'll let that lie. That's what we're going to have to do in another debate. I agree that the state must assist local and regional authorities in the event of major natural disasters and that we must be prepared for more extreme weather in the future. The NVE is currently assisting municipalities in several areas through monitoring, spatial planning, security measures, monitoring and alerting and incident assistance. In 2018, it is set at 354 million. for the prevention of flood and emergency damage to the budget of the NVE. Overall, prevention appropriations have increased during this government, partly due to the oil price drop package and partly also based on budgetary settlements here in the United Kingdom, no later than December of the 2018 budget. The NVE shall give priority to its assistance to municipalities in order to maximise the return of society in the form of a reduced risk of flood and avalanche damage. I agree that the NVE should continue the monitoring of the most vulnerable, already populated areas. NVE's work is highly valued outside the municipalities. Competence is important for municipalities. The identification of hazards is extremely important for spatial planning, so that we do not build ourselves into new vulnerable areas, and monitoring is important for prioritisation of security measures. Based on identified hazards, events and applications from municipalities, the NVE draws up overviews of current security measures across the country. That work will continue. Fortunately, a lot of mapping has already been done. Flomsons have been surveyed in 129 municipalities, and mercury deposits have been surveyed in 90 municipalities. There are also different types of steps in about 50 municipalities. The government will return to Stortinget with a review of the Guidelines for Compensation after natural damage to county municipalities. We have a beauty scheme, and it's an opportunity for the Storting to give extra appropriations in relation to particularly large natural damage. I note that the majority of the committee does not see the need to set up an additional fund. I agree with that. Framework funding is the main principle for financing the municipal sector, and I believe that – in sum – it is an effective use of public resources. Finally, I would like to stress that we can stand in front of a demanding spring when the snow smelting in the mountains is really going on. Much snow, especially in South Norway, in combination with rapid temperature rise and, in worst cases, rainfall at the same time could give us a particularly challenging spring associated with flood hazards, especially in the East. That is why, over the last month, I have been in ongoing dialogue with the NVE on the level of risk and will also be kept up-to-date. At the same time, it is important to stress that the municipalities are now well prepared, especially along the large flood-stricken rivers in the East, in line with the contingency plans they have developed. We cross our fingers so that it doesn't happen, but we have experienced situations similar to this in the past with some serious damage related to spring floods. We hope we don't get there in our house, but we have to be prepared, and especially those who are responsible for the preparedness locally, that is, the municipalities. And then the NVE and we from national authorities will assist in the work that may need to be undertaken.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e774	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e779	The councils were a little bit into it by the end: this year there's a lot of snow in the mountains, and with 20 degrees and rain this can be a very challenging year. What concrete measures have been taken to prevent floods and reduce the impact of floods this year?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e784	It follows the same lines as before. In NVE, developments are closely monitored, their assessments and risk assessment are available, and this is communicated, in line with common practice, both to county councillors and to the municipalities concerned, so that the best possible preparation can be made. In addition, the NVE has made it clear that the municipalities now need to be as well prepared for a possible flood situation, and that the measures that can be taken — looking at the emergency stocks that are in place, developing emergency plans for this type of situation — are well prepared if we come in a situation where action needs to be taken. There are no possibilities in the short term as a winter, with plenty of snow, to implement new physical security measures. This is about being prepared.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e789	Replicate cord shift complete. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e807	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a change of line of up to four lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e817	Proposals point to important areas in the development of good mental health protection. The attention to mental health has increased in recent years, which is very positive and also necessary to meet the societal challenges of mental distress and suffering. It appears to be the most significant cause of the burden of disease in Western countries by 2020, and, therefore, reinforced efforts with mental health care are very important. It is important to stress that mental health care should be viewed as part of an integrated health care system. The majority in this case are in favour of mental health protection being treated as part of the messages and plans that apply to the specialist services and primary care services, and believe that a self-identification message will not produce, but rather perhaps contribute to fragmentation of the health care service and the supply of mental illness. The re-introduction of the ‘golden rule’, where the growth of treatment in the area of intoxication and psychiatry separately should be greater than the growth of somatic diseases, is an important measure, in addition to the escalation plan for the drug field, which should have a broad approach to early intervention, proper treatment and good follow-up, which should also contribute to ensuring the quality and availability of municipal services. Municipalities are just central to our success in the work we are doing in the field of mental health and drugs. Good knowledge and ability of multidisciplinary and cross-sectoral thinking and action by participants are crucial for the provision of services to be good, coherent and defence-related. Package trajectories for mental health and drug use are also an action to comply with the ‘Golden Rule’. Psychiatric health care should be seen as part of an integrated health care system. That is why we want mental health protection to be treated as part of the messages and plans that apply to the specialist and primary health services, and we therefore do not support the proposals in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e834	Every year between 500 and 600 suicides are committed in Norway, and according to the Institute of Public Health, it is common to assume that there are ten times more suicide attempts than suicides. 60 pst. of all suicides occur in the age group under 50, and there are about twice as many men as women taking their own lives. Suicide must be said to be the most dramatic outcome of mental illness in the population. But only a small part of those with mental disorders end up taking their own lives – fortunately. At the same time, very many people find it difficult because of mental illness. It is serious for the affected, and for the relatives, but it is also a major challenge for society, which we politicians have a responsibility to address. Psychiatric disorders result in reduced quality of life and fewer years of life and keep people away from work and other activities that most people can take for granted. The Labour Party has faith in early efforts in this field as well. That is why we have promoted the proposal for a representative on low-threshold mental health care in municipalities. If you get help quickly and at an early stage, we think it could limit the development of mental disorders in many, and at the same time we believe that as a society we will see that early efforts pay off also in mental health. Too many people feel unfortunately the threshold to seek help too high. Others experience not getting the help you need, when you need it. The working party therefore promotes and supports several proposals in this case to do something about this. We ask the government to establish low-threshold mental health services for children, young people and families in all municipalities. A good offer shall be entitled regardless of where a boron is located and must be easily accessible. The threshold for seeking help for a hard worker should not be higher than if he has broken a leg. We also say clearly that there is no need to collect excesses for the treatment of children and young people in mental health protection. The economy and family economy must not get in the way of the best treatment for children and young people. In this case, it could prove to be expensive both for individuals and for society in the long term. For me, it's a little surprising that neither the government parties nor the Christian People's Party have wanted to be with us on these proposals. I hope at least that is not an expression that these parties believe that today's situation is good enough, because after the Labour Party's view there is still a lot of work to be done in this field. Earlier this week, the NRK could tell that one person every two days takes their own life while they are in contact with mental health protection. It's a crazy high number. That's a number the Workers' Party thinks we have to do something with it before it goes that far. Most start in a municipality, and the basis for good or poor mental health is often laid in childhood and youth. That is why it is also where we start with our proposals in this matter. On that basis, I take up the proposals No. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, and proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e855	The representative, Tellef Inge Mørland, has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e860	More and more people are hurting, and I think we have all been hit pretty hard by the suicide figures NRK has promised, that between 2008 and 2015 1,910 people have committed suicide in or just after mental health protection. Espen lost his sister when she was on extended leave, and asked himself in the media if he could have done more, whether he could have changed the situation. I would like to say from this pulpit that this should not blame Espen himself for. When we talk about suicide, it might seem that any suicide could have been avoided, and it can if we start early, but it can't always be when it's gone too far. The situation is serious. Every five young people struggle with mental distress. Anorexia has become the third leading cause of death among young girls in Europe, and more young boys die of suicide than in traffic. The treatment offer has to rise, but we in SV believe that we also need to think about how we build our society. Increased school performance pressure, a sharp increase in stress problems among young people, advertising for doll magnifications and the restylane offer for russ gives a body pressure we fortunately escaped. The offer to those who suffer heavy is too poor. I even had a friend who tried to take his own life. He was told he was going to have an emergency room, and he had to wait two weeks to get the so-called emergency room. But to stop these problems is one of the most important things we can do, to ensure good prevention and help that is easy to get to when you start getting hurt, instead of having to wait until it's gone too far, too wrong. Therefore, SV, together with the Centre Party, proposes a five-year escalation plan for mental health work in the municipalities, so SV, together with the Workers' Party, proposes low-threshold measures in all municipalities throughout Norway, and therefore the Red-Greens agree to propose outreach teams to help those who are struggling, instead of just sitting alone. But the most important proposal, I think, is the proposal for a comprehensive communication on mental health protection. If the situation in the past has shown us one thing, then we need to look at the situation again, dry to see ourselves in the cards and dry to investigate. Therefore, I am very disappointed that the government parties will not even make a big message to grow and learn from the situation that has now emerged. I'm going to deal with the proposals. 4 and 5, which is an SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e879	The representative Nicholas Wilkinson has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e885	The Storting is now dealing with two issues, a document 8 proposal from the Centre Party, for which I would like to thank the Centre Party for, to propose a large-scale report, and another document 8 proposal, from the Workers' Party, on low-threshold services in the field of mental health. When the Christian People's Party is busy getting a big message, it's because we believe that with a big message where the Storting must say something about mental health, a relationship with it in a different way – and is willing to prioritize it. I deeply disagree when someone from this pulpit says that it will not promote, but rather fragment, such a service. I think just a big message can help you see the whole thing in this field, a field where we still see an increasing number of sick people. That more and more people get sick is related to both somatic disorders and other aspects of society. That's why the Christian People's Party has said that we believe the Storting should have a ownership. We saw how important this was when Dagfinn Højbrätten in his time implemented a stepping-up plan for mental health, and what it had to say that the Storting itself had a ownership of it. That is why the Christian People's Party supports proposals. In the case of lowthreshold mental health services in municipalities, especially for children and young people, the Christian People's Party agrees with the intention. But the Christian People's Party, in the last period, was given the impression that there is going to be a stepping-up plan for mental health for children and young people for the Stortinget, a binding plan for escalation, and I hope that the whole Stortinget will choose to give priority to money that I think will go to many of the good suggestions that come up in the representative proposal that comes from the Workers' Party. But the reason we're voting no is that we're waiting for – and we're very expecting – a cross-sectoral escalation plan in mental health, because we think this field of health is related to other fields. Then we've also seen in the media the recent proportion of the population who commit suicide or who are thinking of taking their own life. I think we just know the contours of the pain that not only the one who does it has, but that an entire family and circle of friends know about afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e898	Most have heard of Florence Nightingale, but few have perhaps heard of her human vision. She stood for what we call a holistic human vision, a human vision that is based on the whole human being. What does that really mean in practice? This means that not only will one try to treat the physical symptoms of a disease or condition but it will assess the totality of the person being treated – mental, emotional, spiritual, social, cultural and rational aspect. Of course, I think, everything is related to everything. Research has shown that mental illness can cause physical, physical distress, and that lack of belonging, both spiritually and socially, can cause mental illness. But why is it still such that telling the outside world that you have a mental disorder, because many are still associated with shame? Why should it be different from how people with heartache meet and follow up? Having a physical symptom, for example in the form of a blood clot, the world is ready to accept one, but falling around the world in the form of a severe depression, this should preferably not be discussed. Recently, professionals and we politicians have tried to help build a health service based on the principle of seeing the whole human being. We want a full service. We have tried to break down the taboo barriers in mental health by disseminating information and knowledge about mental disorders, by establishing the golden rule and by linking mental health and public health. For several years, we have strengthened health centres and school health services with health sisters and psychologists alike in order to meet children and young people where they are. We build patients' health services and set in motion a major change in attitudes among health care staff – a change in attitudes at a very low threshold, based on patients' needs and wishes with the words: What is important for you? – also in mental health services. We think it is particularly important to include mental health in plans and communications for specialist health services and community health services and not as a separate message. It's because we want to see man in a whole perspective, not fragmented and divided. On this basis, we cannot see today the need for a new big message and believe that we have already made good provision for good mental health care for children and young people, with access to important and necessary professionals, although there is always a need for more. That the mental health provision for young and old can always be better, there is no doubt about it, and the Progress Party will work continuously to put mental health on the agenda. The government parties will support the solution proposed by the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, SV, the Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e911	The centre party thinks there is a need for a new big message about mental health protection. I feel that the Council of State is partly in agreement, as he has warned that this is going to be a major part of the next national health and health plan. We think there's a lot that has happened before mental health protection, which proves that it's time to get a complete message about what we want, and how we're going to be able to strengthen mental health protection in a good way. I want to show you more areas that show you the need for it. We know that there is a development in the construction of bed places, and that district psychiatric centers work very differently around the country. We know there are major protests against the kind of funding that has been put in place. We know that there will be criticism of the supply given to those with mental illness in prison. We have received criticism from the UN Commission on Human Rights about our electroshock treatment. There are also major challenges in age psychiatry. There have been a lot of revelations in the press about the use of coercion and about the supply of those who are seriously mentally ill. We have had a national health and hospital plan that did not take this seriously. We've got a strategy for good mental health from the government, which doesn't take this seriously, and it's a golden rule that says that psychiatry should be strengthened more than the other areas. It has not worked. We know that mental illness is not diagnosed, and 30 pst. is rejected by the specialist service when displayed. Overall, there are many indisiums that mental health protection needs a new plan. The previous one was from 2008, but the previous one works. Now we need a comprehensive mental health protection plan. We have put forward a proposal with which we have had the whole opposition, to get a new action plan to prevent suicide and self-harm, including the prevention of suicide among patients who have been admitted to or who have recently been admitted to mental health protection, and to assess a zero vision for this work. This is an extremely important area. I've been busy with this problem several times before, including in the previous period. I think we need to set a zero, not because there's not going to be a suicide, but to show the seriousness and what we expect the services to do. It shall be such that a patient is admitted to mental health protection, dependants shall be sure that suicide does not occur. With this, I will address the proposal that we have been making.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e924	The representative Kjersti Toppe has drawn up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e930	We will never finish debating mental health protection and the need to improve the supply of those who are most struggling in society. Progress has been made in this area, both therapeutic and medical. The government has invested considerable resources in this field. Nevertheless, we continue to receive reports of unexpected suicides, where those occurring among young people affect us most strongly. The numbers are discouraging. In eight years almost 2,000 patients in mental health protection have committed suicide. It equals more than one patient every other day. Too many people carry on unmanageable emotional pain without telling anyone. The problem of suicide is obviously an area that needs much more attention, but that too many people are difficult to talk about. It's time for a loud protest from all of us. The public word change has a responsibility here, although it is not up to this room to have any opinion on this in the regulatory context. Since 1936, the press's Vær-varsom-plakat has had the theme on its taboo list. Suicide should never be mentioned – for fear that it could have an infectious effect. A few years ago, this point was softened, and it is asked whether the time is not now ripe for a new round of discussion in the press's organisations to assess, if possible, whether much of the taboo press continues to prevent us from a free and open discussion about this tragic field, with a view to providing help and guidance both to the mentally ill and to their relatives, while at the same time preventing the infection effect. We talk so nicely about lifting mental health, and that's one of the most important things we can do. Nevertheless, there is little improvement. These are complex problems, and maybe that's exactly why we don't succeed. As a society, are we willing to facilitate many of those who are struggling in a way that ensures long and good treatment? Violence, assault and care failure may be some of the reasons why people choose to end their lives. We know that this puts lifelong and negative traces in people and their families. We say so nice that a good childhood lasts a lifetime, but it often does a bad one too. It naturally brings us to the second proposal that we are debating together now, on low-threshold services in mental health. Together with the Christian People's Party, the Left has helped the previous government to promote an economically committed escalation plan for children and young people's mental health in 2018. There's a plan left has high expectations. I am pleased that there is now a need to reach agreement on the proposal of the Central Party. I am skeptical for the use of the word 'zero vision' in this context, because I'm not willing to put an equal sign between mental health and suicide. But it's a question we can come back to, and there's no commitment to this in this proposal. I'm glad.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e945	It is important to continue to strengthen the supply of mental health and, not least, to strengthen what was started with the previous public health communication, namely to see mental health as an equal part of public health work. Proposals point to key areas that still need attention in the future — interaction, priority and, above all, the need to build up lowthreshold services in municipalities. We will present a stepping-up plan for children and young people’s mental health and a new national health and hospital plan, where mental health will be one of the main themes. When the government wants to present these two documents to the Stortinget, it is difficult to see the need for a separate notification of mental health protection. The aspects of mental health protection will be addressed in detail in those documents. The escalation plan will look at the establishment of low-threshold mental health services for children, young people and families. Good multidisciplinary lowthreshold services are important in order to maximise prevention and treatment. The provision of health and school health services is very important, and there is also a significant increase in capacity and competence in recent years. The increase in the number of year-olds in mental health and drug work in municipalities targeted at children and young people has been 7.9 pst. This means that the reduction of this offer that took place under the previous government has turned to a strong reinforcement. It is important to further develop existing services and, in particular, to increase the competence of municipalities. This is why there has been an increase in the number of psychologists in municipalities in the last five years, from 130 psychologists in 2013 to 440 psychologists now. While there were 95 municipalities that had psychological competence in 2013, it's now 285. But there is still a need to strengthen these services. Therefore, this is also important in the escalation plan. The representatives’ proposals for strengthening the psychiatry of children and young people are many. These suggestions are in the loops that I've been talking about. The number of children and young people receiving assistance in childhood and youth psychiatry has almost tripled since 1998, with a long tradition of cooperation in services. The number of daily places has been quite stable, in about 300 places. We are also in the initial pit to introduce packaging processes in both mental health and alcohol. This will provide a good, complete patient trajectory. The Lifelong Learning Strategy proposes measures to improve coordination. It is also important to strengthen efforts to combat and prevent suicide.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e960	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e965	The working party thinks we're not doing enough in mental health, and that we have to start early. That is why, together with the Socialist Left Party, we are promoting proposals to establish low-threshold mental health services for children, young people and families in all municipalities. We believe that the measures must be implemented through the establishment of the family house or other easily accessible services, and that the services must be multi-disciplinary and cross-disciplinary in order to ensure good and complete services for children, young people and families. Unfortunately, this proposal does not support the Right and the other government parties. Why is it that the Council of State believes that there is no need to make it easier for children, young people and families who need easy access and good quality mental health services? The Council of State said in its statement that it would look at the low-threshold offer that we have now proposed. But if he agrees with the proposal, why can't the government parties just vote in favour of that proposal? And if he refers to the escalation plan for children and young people – can he guarantee that the proposal of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left will now be implemented there?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e972	I fully agree that there is a need to build up low-threshold services for children and young people in mental health in municipalities. That is why, as Minister of Health, I have done this in the last five years, and we do not need the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party's proposals and to adopt it in the United Kingdom to do what we are already doing. As I said, we took over in a situation where the capacity of the municipalities towards children and young people in mental health had been weakened when the Workers' Party was held responsible. Now it has been strongly strengthened – 7.9 pst. growth in annual works aimed at children and young people. In addition, we have seen a significant increase in psychologists in municipalities. This continues, while we are working on a stepping-up plan for children and the mental health of young people, where we will, of course, also provide new measures, and that is important. That is why the proposal by the Labour Party and the Socialist Left is unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e979	I hear that the government doesn't need good proposals from the Workers' Party, but it's still that we get more insights that we are far from in the field of mental health. I therefore find it regrettable that every force that wants to do something about it is not taken seriously when it comes to the recordings that are coming. Another proposal on the matter we are dealing with today, to which the government parties now want to say no, is that we should be clear that we do not want to have a fair share for children and young people who are being treated in the field of mental health protection. Is it true that the government believes that there should be a proportion for children and young people in the field of mental health protection, as they will not support the proposal as, among other things, The working party is behind it?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e988	On the first point, we believe that we are now in an upsurge, and we are going to present a plan of escalation in this area, where there are also a number of good measures to be taken. If we had thought that the situation was good enough, we wouldn't have done it. Had this been a government that did not prioritise the mental health of children and young people, whether economically or politically, we would have agreed with the criticism, but it is not correct. This is going to be a priority, and we're going to do it. This makes the proposal unnecessary. In the case of proportions for children and young people in mental health, this is not the case. What is the situation is that the same rules of equity that have been in force since the early 1980s or 1990s – if I don't remember faults – also apply today. As I've said, I'm willing to look at the transition system for children and young people who go to adult psychiatry, but that's something we have to get back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e997	As a society, we have a great responsibility to help prevent and reduce the extent of self-harm and suicide. When so many suicides occur in patients who are admitted or recently discharged from mental health protection, it's not only serious, but it's a system flaw that I think rockes the confidence in mental health protection. It's not only wrong for the person it happens to, and for the relatives, but also for them to add. Now there will be several for a new action plan. I know that the council itself was concerned about this when he was in opposition. An action plan is not important, it is the action in it that is important. We're also asking for a zero to be evaluated. My question is what the Council of State sees himself as contributing to the new work that is going on, how he assesses a zero vision, and how he can secure measures that will really work out in the services.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1006	I fully agree that we have too many suicides in Norway. That is why, as the representative pointed out, I was also a driver of today's action plan, which expired at the turn of the year. But the actions in that action plan did not go out at the turn of the year, they have continued. Of course, if the Stortinget decides today to create a new action plan, I will do so and contribute to the success of the new action plan. I also fully agree that we need to become even better at preventing suicide in those who are looking for the service. The positive thing in the survey is that very many of those at risk of suicide are actually in contact with healthcare. That gives us a chance. One of the measures in the action plan introduced from 15 May this year is the systematic monitoring of the service after suicide, so that one in the service can learn more and look at what another could do to prevent it from happening again.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1013	I'm sure the numbers of suicides in mental health protection make a strong impression on the state council, just as they've done to us in SV. SV, together with many other parties, is now proposing more proposals to strengthen mental health protection, because we believe that what the government has done now is not good enough. I am very pleased that the government parties warn that they will vote in favour of the proposal that SV is also in favour of, about an action plan. But we're contacted by a lot of people now who say that it's not good enough in mental health protection, and that the measures the government has notified and started are not enough in itself. So I would like to ask the Council of State if he can now tell all the patients who contact us, what new steps he will take to improve mental health protection – in the light of the rather terrible stories and the information we have now received.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1022	Firstly, I fully agree that the supply of mental health in Norway is not good enough. Had I thought it was good enough, I hadn't worked so much to keep improving it. As I said, we are going to present a stepping-up plan for the mental health of children and young people. Psychiatric health will be the main subject of the new national health and health plan. I hope there's going to be as much commitment around this main subject as it was about the previous main subject, surgery and emergency surgery. It's going to be exciting to see, but I hope it's going to be the same commitment. Of course, it's not like we're waiting for this. We also have measures now. As I have been involved, we build up offers in the municipalities. From this year on, we are also beginning to introduce the first packaging processes in the field of mental health and alcohol. There we hope to achieve the same results that we have done within, among other things. cancer, where patients experience better, faster and more coherent help.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1030	Replicate cord shift complete. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1048	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a change of line of up to four lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1057	In 2015, the majority made changes to the Patient and User Rights Act in relation to the legislation on the coverage of patient travel expenses. The aim is that the reimbursements should be the same regardless of the mode of transport the patient chooses. The aim was to improve and simplify the system for the benefit of the patient. For many, the change has worked according to purpose, but far from for all. In too many cases, the patient waits too long before the taxi arrives, or before they get flights home. In the light of this experience, regional health businesses need to take a closer look at their planning, conclusion and follow-up of patient transport agreements. The agreements must ensure that patient transport services are properly performed, including: in the case of waiting time. Furthermore, the contract must contain the means of ensuring that carriers carry out their mission under contract. In addition, we see that geographical conditions and the scattered settlement we have here in the country present specific challenges for regional health businesses. This requires locally adapted solutions. In view of this, the majority of the Committee points out that there is good reason to carry out a broad review of both health business tendering practices and the organisation of patient travel in order to create a better functioning system for patients. The work on this matter has been like peeling an onion: there have been layers of heartbreaking stories that are to cry off. In too many cases, the routines also fail in addition to the patient journey itself by not alerting the patient or the institution when the patient is sent home, preferably – in addition to being ill – thinly dressed, confused and at strange times of the day. One says that her husband was sent home without her being informed, and without having a key. He sat outside the house for several hours in minus degrees and died shortly later. We can't have it like that. Nor can we have it so that the patient transport itself is routinely harmful to health and a health burden for the sick person, by waiting a long time for a taxi that does not arrive, and on the last plane because it is cheaper than the next plane. We've also heard about patients who, over and over again, put their heads against a system that doesn't recognise local conditions. After much over and they convince a case handler that it is cheaper to drive around the fjord than to take a quick boat and taxi, they have to start again with the next case handler. I would therefore recommend the Committee's recommendation to I, which is supported by the opposition, by the Labour Party, by the Central Party, by the Socialist Left and by the Christian People's Party, and by the Committee's recommendation to II and III, which is supported by the entire committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1072	We suggest that there be a wide review of patient travel legislation and that there be a case for the Storing with the necessary measures to simplify and improve the system. I am pleased that we are getting a majority for this proposal today. There are also several numbers for a proposal to start the evaluation process of the Patient Travel Guide in August 2019. Now something will happen in this area. It is an overarching goal for health services to create good and equivalent health services for all, regardless of each cage. Then it is also that the necessary patient transport, which one should be covered by the public because one is in such a state of health that one should have it covered, must be seen as an extended part of the responsibility. And then it doesn't matter how that transport happens. We've got a lot of things to do. through media disclosures, there are major weaknesses in today's system. Rarely have I received so many feedback from people outside – many from relatives, who are concerned about how one treats their parents in the healthcare system, but also from those who run patients, i.e. taxi drivers and patients themselves. This is something that many people have negative experiences with out there, and that we need to do something about. There are also some negative feedback on how to get money back. It's a bureaucratic system. And this does not only apply to long waiting times for taxis. This is not a big-city phenomenon, it's also a big frustration in the districts. Especially in North Norway there are long waiting times because they have to wait for the cheapest plane in the evening, and they have had a very long journey before. In the debate, someone has a debt that this is the taxi company's responsibility, but it's not that simple, because health professionals are responsible for the patient travel system. Then it's their responsibility to make sure that this happens in a good way. Health practitioners have been criticised for social dumping because they put the supply so low. There is also a responsibility for healthcare professionals and patient travel, for they put up chains of trips, co-operation, which also means that travel time is extremely much longer. This is about sick patients, for whom many have great concern – as they are related. I'm glad we get multiples for a review. I would like to recommend the recommendation from the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1091	Norway is a long-term country, and in order to ensure equivalent services, we need to ensure transport. We can never adopt ourselves away from the geography that exists, but we can do our part to help from the Storting. I'm so lucky that I've grown up with many hospitals on a short way from where I live, easy to reach by public transport. But the stories show that in metropolitan areas too, patient transportation is now a problem. In Oslo there was a 70-year-old man with a Parkinson who had to wait two hours on the taxi to drive him home. It is unacceptable and will not happen in Norway. I have recently come home from visits to both Tromsø and Hammerfest, and it makes the impression of talking to people who may have to travel for days to get treatment they are entitled to. Irene from Finnmark had to travel for five days to get a medical appointment in Tromsø. If we've organized our patient trips so that someone has to travel for five days, that's the system there's something wrong with, not the patients. For those who can pay for themselves, it is rarely a problem. Those who have money can buy tickets for previous flights, they can pay for their own taxi. But what about all those who can't? Differences in Norway are dramatically increasing with the current government. Then it is particularly important that it is a good public and free offer for everyone who helps them home for a reasonable time. Therefore, SV is proud that we are co-sponsored to all three important proposals that are being adopted today: a broad review of patient travel legislation, an evaluation of patient travel regulations and a review of the organisation of healthcare companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1104	First of all, I agree with the criticism that has emerged in the cases we saw about taxi transport. There have been some totally unsustainable cases there. Then there is reason to remember that here there are some people who have said they should do a service, which does not. I now experience that. And I think the whole Storting agrees that it's not acceptable, as it's been done. This is a discussion that also concerned the issue of hospital structure in Finnmark. Then we also talked about patient transportation. I have on several occasions just mentioned that one has to look specifically at the routines around this with flight orders, because it is not so good if one has to wait until the last flight, if one, for example. has had day surgery early in the day. So we've also described that in the past. Then I think what we have now agreed on, the proposals for Decisions II and III, is a good continuation of this. I am aware that this has already been a topic, and that this is going to be included in the mission documents of health companies. All in all, I can assure the whole Storting that this is working to get better solutions in place. At the same time, we must remember that the more money a user spends on patient transport, the less money it becomes for patient treatment. In the care-responsibilities of health businesses, it is for everyone to provide good health care and get the best out of the resources available. It is also important to bring with it in this discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1115	The government is concerned that we should have a good and well-functioning patient travel system. The system is regulated by a number of legal and regulatory requirements. My opinion is that health regions take this part of their responsibility seriously, but that there is continuous room for improvement. Health regions have also received input, not least from users and their organisations, but also from the National Audit Office. At the same time, health regions have to deal with legislation on public acquisitions. This entails continuous work both on the implementation of acquisitions and, not least, on the follow-up to contracts concluded to provide these services to health establishments. New patient travel legislation entered into force on 1 October 2016. The aim of the regulation was to simplify the system for users, adapt the legislation to digital processes and facilitate a simpler and more efficient procedure. Patient travel informs that eight out of ten applicants for reimbursement electronically are satisfied. Of course, the rights and the level of compensation provided for patients during their travels to and from treatment can always be discussed, but in my opinion these are now at a level that ensures that all those who need it receive the necessary treatment. Travel time and waiting time are important for patients to and from treatment. The regulatory framework does not provide any specific guidance on how long wait and travel time patients should expect, for example: when travelling by air. Here, the caregiver has an important responsibility by providing the necessary information on the need for organised transport when it is requested to travel. There have been several cases where patients have had to wait a long time before taxis have arrived and picked them up for treatment or after treatment. This is very regrettable, and it is necessary to be handled by health companies against those with whom they have agreed. In autumn 2017, a national user survey on travel was carried out both with and without requisition. Overall, the results show that users are satisfied with today’s patient travel offer, and the feedback from users will, of course, be an important part of the review that the Stortinget wants to do in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1128	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1133	I am very surprised that the Council of State, with the stories that have emerged here, and with the information that has emerged in the matter, says that there is no need to review the legislation. Therefore, I would like to ask specifically: what will the Council of State do to ensure that the specialist health service establishes procedures to alert relatives or institutions that the patient is coming home? What will the Council of State do to ensure that approved travel methods established are approved for the next time you use the specialist health service?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1138	The size is likely to decide today that we are going to have a review of this area. Of course, I'm going to follow up on that. My impression of many of the individual issues that have been raised is that there is not necessarily something wrong with the legislation, but that the management of this and the lack of individual adaptation have been the problem. Then some of it is also related to the consequences of having a public procurement code, which makes there some criteria for which suppliers you can choose, and which processes should be for it. So this is probably an area where we need to have continuous improvement work. Feedback from users through regular user surveys is also very important in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1145	I understand the Council of State so that he almost minimizes this matter by presenting it as an individual matter, and that a user investigation shows that this is good. There have been reports for years that this has been a huge problem in cities, as in Bergen and Oslo. It's not just one year, but it's been like this for years. There are many people who take time off from work to avoid their parents experiencing unworthiness as one knows is a risk in this system. Now the Council of State says that the Stortinge makes a decision, but is it the will of the Council of State to go in and look at this? Is there any understanding that this is actually a problem, and that it requires a system change to ensure that all patients can be sure that the transport they receive is defenceable?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1151	There are many issues in this case, and I don't think in any way to minimize them. It is also important to clear a little between what are the different issues. It is quite right that in the large cities, not least in connection with new offers for patient travel from taxi companies, there have been problems in the start-up phase. I am very clear that it is a responsibility for the two parties to the agreement to clean up. I do not think it is acceptable when agreements have been concluded with suppliers from the taxi companies, that those agreements are not followed up, that drivers and the various licensees obviously do not participate in what has been contracted and that it goes beyond the patients. But experience is that this often goes beyond time, when the parties get the opportunity to work together.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1156	It's quite right that this is going to happen, until there's a new offer, and then it's on 'an' again. I've registered that at Haukeland Hospital. There will be regular intervals when a new offer arrives. And then it's going to be a really big problem, and then it can work out. But this doesn't hold. It is not that one can expect the patient travel arrangements to work for fragile patients, who are totally dependent on it being done in a proper way. So there's also a point here that there's some from the taxi industry that refuses to deliver supplies. A debt of social dumping is due to the fact that only one person is allowed to enter supply below a certain price level that the health care provider has set to save money. Will the Council of State go into and look at how the offer is carried out, if there is anything in that criticism? Does he want to look at this together, that is, that health care professionals themselves associate with patient travel? Will be included, for example: the mission documents?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1163	This is related to the work done by the Ministry of Transport on the whole system around the taxi industry. This is also part of what regulates the opportunities available to health businesses, for example. to provide their own services where they deem it necessary. Then I think the thing that's a little special in these cases is that someone experiences that there are agreements with taxi companies, and when they don't deliver in line with the agreement, the criticism is directed against patient travel. Not least, the representative Toppe has been on the track there criticising patient travel. But I think we have to be very clear that when a person enters into that kind of agreement, we have to expect them to be followed up. It's not acceptable to let it go out on patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1170	Being transported to and from treatment almost becomes part of the overall experience of good treatment, not least when more and more treatments take place during the day and a few fewer and fewer interventions for treatment. Some patient groups also travel very much because they have frequent treatments. The feedback that a person receives is that some patient groups who have frequent trips are getting heavy expenses they are going to spend on the trip they are going to take. In addition, the forms through which they are to be refunded are so complicated that they are actually struggling to get the money they really need. What does the Council of State think about us making it so inaccessible, when they're in a way really spending time with the state when they're going to have their own treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1179	This is one of the things that the new arrangement has really led to a significant improvement. Now it is the case that most people operate within a trust-based scheme, where a filer submits his claim and receives reimbursement quickly, without one having to collect receipts and send letters, which are sent back with trailers, which are to be processed by a case handler, etc., and it takes a very long time for a person to get the money back. Some do not come under this simplified scheme because they have special needs to be met. There is a continuous effort to improve the solutions there, which are still perceived as complicated. The main picture is that this has been significantly improved through the digitisation and trust-based regime that we have today, but I fully agree that there is still a need for improvements for those in the exemption scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1188	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1195	I thank you for this debate. It was really high time the Stortinget treated the patient travel system. As mentioned above, a new legislation was put into force on 1 October 2016. The regulatory framework focuses on simplification, digitisation and efficiency – and that must be a good thing! I am pleased with the state council's clarification that this is subject to continuous monitoring by the department. I think that is very good, but the new legislation has not worked enough. A little time has to be spent assessing whether this has had unintended consequences. All schemes should be evaluated after a certain period of time, but one year is a little too little time to assess the impact on the extent to which the proposal for a representative provides. Of course, it must be ensured that suppliers deliver at the quality level they have requested. Then I want to say a few words about Finnmark. In the time around the formation of government, the Left had ongoing work, along with the then government, on the question of Finnmark and especially on travel from Alta to Tromsø. It led to a very good process that has greatly improved the patient travel arrangements between Alta and Tromsø. As I now understand it, it works well, but in some cases it seems to be such that the word ‘improvement potential’ is a little too mild. So I hope the Council of State is still following the situation in Finnmark, and especially Alta. As far as I am concerned, I would like to ask the representative Wilkinson for documentation on how it is possible to use five days from anywhere in Norway to Tromsø. It can't be the government's problem that someone chooses to spend so long, or is forced to spend so long, as far as I understand, this can't be possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1206	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1222	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a change of line of up to four lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1231	This is a proposal from the Swedish representatives Lars Haltbrecken and Nicholas Wilkinson to give priority to ideals in front of commercial operators when healthcare companies buy institutional premises. The Health and Welfare Committee is of the opinion that non-profit institutions serving households and foundations are characterised by their clear value base and societal purpose. Many NPISHs have a particularly high level of confidence in the population, and the ideal actors have a very important role to play in providing treatment, assistance and support in the institutions. The stability of service actors contributes to providing room for good care. Employees and their qualities will always be the most important element in providing quality care and good content. The Committee considers that the tendering system should ensure a good offer at a reasonable price. In its opinion on the matter, the Council of State states that the government has already instructed healthcare companies to give priority to non-profit actors over commercial operators when purchasing institutional premises. The Health and Welfare Committee considers that the State in which the hospital owner has to change tendering practices in favour of protected competitions for ideals and set clear objectives for health establishments. The Committee therefore asks the government to clarify in the health business mission document that, when purchasing private institutional premises, they should give priority to non-profit actors rather than commercial operators. The Committee endorses the recommendation to prioritise non-profits in front of commercial actors when health professionals buy institutional premises.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1242	It should be said that the Council of State has taken a step in the right direction, but we believe here in Stortinget that there is a need to clarify even more clearly how important this is to those who buy services, so that we are absolutely sure that we get the results we want. We have had a good dialogue on this in the committee, which was also contributed by the case-rapporteur, Mr Larsen. We are unanimous on what Larsen just referred to, and to which I would also like to stress: we – an overall committee – believe that the state as a hospital owner must change the tendering practice in favour of protected competitions for ideals and set clear objectives for health businesses, and further clarify this in the mission documents. There are different ways to go about this, just like that. And this is what the majority of the committee says about, for example. that one can set a percentage target for growth in the purchase of services from non-profits or that health enterprises may be required to open new services for protected competitions to non-profits. We agree on something that is important, which provides a good basis for an offensive follow-up from the Council of State, and then there is something that we do not fully agree on, either in this setting, but that is probably worth noting to the Council of State. So I want to inform you already that in the round where there is an opportunity to ask questions to the Council of State, I will come back to some of what I now call ‘precision’.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1253	It is not every day that SV gets a unanimous collapse in the back of our representative proposals. We get that today, and we're happy for that. Ideally, priority shall be given to commercial providers when health-care providers purchase institutional premises. Commercial actors and privatisation threaten our health system today. A growing number of the Nordics fear a two-part division of the health system, where the richest get better help. A completely recent study by Kantar TNS shows that 58 pst. by the Nordics believe that we already have a two-part healthcare system. Of these, 70 stands for pst. that the differences in Norway are now increasing, and that also gives the SSB and their facts exactly the right thing to do. We in SV fear that commercial providers undermine a holistic health system with seamless transitions. They take less research responsibility and have fewer educational positions. Of course, the goal is to earn, profit. It's their responsibility to their shareholders. As a result, they also always wish to include payment spaces in addition, which in the long term move doctors and nurses to treat payment spaces instead of public free clients. It's not like it has nothing to say about how we organize our health care system. It has something to say if welfare professionals are allowed to take over even larger parts of hospital operations, but there is a unanimous agreement with SV that we should stop. On the other hand, we have ideal actors who do not take profit from patients, but let the money stay in the services and spend them on better treatment, like the LHL clinics Røros. Last summer, it was clear that the LHL clinics Røros were allocated only 44 daily places in specialised rehabilitation, as a result of a public health tendering process. There were 16 fewer places than in the then agreement. A reduction meant the end of the offer of morbid overweight at the LHL clinics Røros. The trade union and Røros SV took the initiative together with SV on Stortinget, and Lars Haltbrecken, together with me, has promoted this proposal. It shows that local struggles and local involvement can win and get an ideologically important victory in place in the Norwegian Grand Prix – now ideals must be given priority in front of commercial providers. This is a good day for SV, and we are looking forward to more breakthroughs in the time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1268	The Christian People's Party believes that it is an objective that there should be growth in the non-profit sector. To achieve that, there must first be a good solution to the historical pension costs, and we will come back to that. Then we have to find a way to make agreements with the ideals that give them predictability and good framework conditions. It is good that the government has already instructed health companies to give priority to non-profit actors in the purchase of institutional premises rather than commercial ones – that is good. It is also good for the supervisor to be in place to clarify the conditions under which contracts are reserved for non-profit institutions serving households. It is also good that the Minister of Health has asked health businesses to reserve, as far as possible, new competitions for ideals. It is also good that an aggregate increase says that the State as a hospital owner needs to change tendering practices in favour of ideals by protecting competitions and setting clear targets for health businesses. The Committee asks the government to clarify in its mission document to health care establishments that, when purchasing private institutional premises, they should give priority to non-profit actors rather than commercial ones. The intention of the size is that the use of ideal providers should be increased. We don't want established practice to continue. The decisions and signals of the size scheme must lead to a change in practice, for today, ideal operators are losing competitions in health care establishments. Today many ideals experience that they are scalded and selected with. They offer good services, and the answer is no, we'd rather build up our own public offer. Or they get the answer: no, thanks, it's too expensive. At the same time, we see that commercial companies address smaller players with a purchase request. We do not need tendering procedures that lead to important treatment provision being reduced despite good quality. The Christian People's Party believes that cooperation, over these competitions, is a better way to work. The leadership of the government, the law on public acquisitions and the regulations and guidelines of this law, as well as the government's instruction to health businesses to prioritise non-profit actors over commercial actors, are a very correct and important part. This is too little followed up in practice, believes Christian People's Party. Our goal is growth for the non-profit sector. It requires clear political messages and follow-up in the practical work out in Health-Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1281	Both the Storting and the Government are committed to maintaining and strengthening non-profit providers in health and care services. At the corporate meeting on 16 January this year, I assigned health regions to give priority to ideals in front of commercial ones. This is one of several instruments to achieve the objective of growth in the share of service provision from non-profit institutions. The legal space provides the outer framework for what I can instruct health regions about. Reservoir orders must therefore be made subject to the condition that health regions consider that the legal conditions are met. When large parts of a service area are currently provided by commercial ones, there is a risk that reservations of the entire service area of the ideals may go beyond both capacity, quality and price. It could give patients a worse offer. For example, about 40 pst. by the providers of specialised rehabilitating commercial services. In Health Nord RHF, a commercial operator located in the region has a comprehensive offer on the drug field. No one wants patients to suffer from a rapid conversion, and I assume that this is an overall committee's intention with the opinion that: ‘The tendering system shall ensure a good offer at a reasonable price’. I have therefore asked all regional health companies to seek out reservations for ideals in rehabilitation and mental health protection, first in the volumes currently being delivered, and then the possibility to increase the volume. Health Nord is also to investigate this for TSB, multi-disciplinary specialised drug treatment. The Government has thus given health regions a clear political signal that they should do their utmost to reserve competitions for ideals, including in the future. I noticed that the majority of the committee did not consider that the business meetings in January were sufficient. I would therefore, of course, like to assess how I can best put into practice the mission of health regions to meet what is a clearly expressed wish, both from the Stortinget and from the government. We in the government are committed to strengthening the ideal businesses, but it is also important that we do this all the way in a way that does not lead to a worse patient offer. An increase in the use of ideals must therefore be made gradually, but of course also within the framework of the adopted laws of the Grand Duchy. I have clearly told the health regions to increase the use of ideals, and I will also follow this up in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1297	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1302	I said in my post that this is going in the right direction, but we're busy going a little closer to going further. I would also like to make it clear that there is an overall committee that says that we want what has been done so far – and would like further clarification – to be included in the mission document. Then my question is, how are we going to strengthen the ideal actors? And as the majority of the Stortinget points out in the position: can a percentage target for growth for non-profit providers be a way to go, or can a health care company be required to open new services for sheltered competition for ideals? I refer in that context to the volume increase that the Council of State itself was in – whether it can also be part of it all.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1309	This is one of the things I'm going to look at, of course, but there's a lot of challenges with, for example. to impose a uniform volume requirement on the four health regions, for the composition of the four health regions on the supplier side being very different. One must also remember that defining what is an ideal business, not just about asking the question, who is the owner? It's not just what defines what's an ideal business. It is also about the other type of business one operates and how one is acting in the market. If someone in other areas acts as a commercial operator, a legal view will also be a commercial operator, even if one, for example, acts as a commercial operator. owned by a non-profit foundation. There are a number of actors that most think are ideal, which would in reality be cut off from offering if a tender was reserved for ideals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1316	The Council of State says that there are major differences around Norway as to the nature of a user’s providers. Then I think it's close to asking: to what extent does it affect the quality of the offer given? Is there a lot of variation, or is there getting a fairly good deal no matter where in the country you are?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1322	The quality requirements for tenders are similar in different health regions, but there is no doubt that there is also variation in this area. The greatest variation in healthcare is found between different public services, and not between public and private, or between private and non-profit institutions. But variation in quality is. Now you need to establish even more quality records just to get a better overview of the quality variation. Good work is now in progress to establish quality records within, for example: anti-seizure treatment. It could give us more knowledge of what the representative is asking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1329	In yesterday's Question Time, the Prime Minister signed that the State itself should not build up and expand services that compete with non-profit actors, whose ideal actors are of good quality and a satisfactory price. Does the Council of State mean the same thing?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1336	The answer to that is yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1341	Replicate cord shift complete. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1359	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government. In addition, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1370	This case has been promoted with the wish to reform the hospital system. The majority of the committee does not see the need for this, but we have had a useful round on this. The dividing lines between the parties in the Committee go between those who support today's governance model and those who do not support it. In this way, this case follows a rather predictable track. But what the Committee agrees on confirms what we also adopted in the examination of the National Health and Hospital Plan: that local management should be the general rule in Norwegian hospitals. At the same time, the Committee's position is completely unanimous that good management is essential in order to improve healthcare in Norway. The importance of good management is underestimated, both on the floor, at the middle management level and further up, and therefore it is useful that the Storting tackles these kinds of questions. When there is no majority for a trust-based management reform in healthcare, this does not mean that the committee is not involved in local management. We also believe that good work and good management should be the basis for how a person operates the hospital, so that employees want to work in our health services. This requires a more systematic commitment to the development of good leaders, and I am pleased that all the parties on the Stortinget recognize it. At the same time, I am of the opinion that it is most effective to make decisions where the work is done. It saves both time and bureaucracy, and it also improves local adjustment and makes it more flexible and adaptable. In this respect, the Stortinget agrees on most but not on the overall organisation of healthcare. There is also a slightly different perception of the extent to which the Council of State has followed up this with local authority, and there is a large majority in the Committee which supports the government's assessment that this has been followed up in line with the decision of the Grand Duchy in the National Health and Hospital Plan. None of the proposals put forward in Document 8 are being adopted today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1385	Our hospitals are for patients. Patients should be met there in a good way and treated well. All of us who are health politicians know that the commitment in and around our hospitals is great all over the country. I guess in some places it's big for the blood pump. For example, in my own region there are still high-sounding discussions and often also conflicts. It's clear that having a local management can solve this, but it's not always like that. During the examination of the national health and hospital plan, there was a unanimous increase in local management that had to be the general rule. The Labour Party believes that it was, and that it still is, good arguments for it. I'm going to be completely honest: local management itself will not contribute to all the problems solving overnight. We have to be prepared for and expect the hospitals to constantly change, and that there is a great deal of commitment about it. In my view, this transition should be based on equivalent cooperation, challenging each other – management, employees and other organisations belonging to the democracy that constitutes a hospital – where one listens to each other, cooperates and at the end of the day, when the decisions are taken, sets up for one another. In order to achieve this, regional health enterprises have a significant responsibility. In companies with several hospitals under the same organisation, it can also work well. The Labour Party believes that it should not be the task of the Stortingen to impose a different way of operating a hospital, by requiring a new structure in which organisational democracy operates. Changes for the sake of change have never been well received in large and complex organisations such as our hospitals, where management, employees and patients have to trust each other in order to operate well and interact well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1394	The centre party is engaged in the leasing of Norwegian hospitals. We believe that Norwegian hospitals need a democracy and leadership reform, and we have submitted several proposals on this before. In order to achieve such a democratic and leadership reform in Norwegian hospitals, there is a need for change in both leadership, organisation and funding. We believe that such a reform must start with the introduction of a quiet lease. It's very simple, and it's actually the Storting, but it's not done in the services. Today, there is a wide variation in the degree to which city-based rental has been introduced and the responsibilities of a quiet tenant in the hospital. We've got the Storting's distribution section to review this, and this is attached to our representative proposal and shows that there is great variation. We can't say that renting is the main rule when the whole regional health care company leaves it to be a quiet lease in their hospitals and creates a kind of new variant where they say that the clinic management also has a place of responsibility. This was not what the Stortinge decided on in the treatment of the National Health and Hospital Plan, it was not what the political figures for the parties said in the media would come as a requirement when the Stortinge treats the National Health and Hospital Plan. The centre party has a clear suggestion as to the location of the lease. We believe that a quiet tenant should be responsible for the operation of the entire hospital. Voss Hospital, which is drawn out by the Minister of Health as a hospital from which you can learn a lot, has a urban ladder, which is the model of the Center Party, which is responsible for the entire hospital operations, and they have good results. This is also why they stand out as a robust local hospital. A city leader is visible in the hospital environment, is available for those added, is responsible for day-to-day operations and is the one who facilitates trust-based and strong professional communities and leadership, which is otherwise a tribute from this pulpit. So, quiet rental is not the main rule, despite Storting's decision, so we want to have a fight about it. We do not suggest that it should be the model of the Centre Party, but it should be a quiet leader, such as some other health services, for example. Vestre Viken, has introduced. So we're going to propose this again. With this I take up the suggestions we are on.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1415	The representative, Kjersti Tope, has drawn up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1420	The goal of health care is the best possible offer for our patients. If it is to be good, you have to have good employees, and in order for good employees to be able to do their job, they need good management. I am pleased that the entire committee has agreed that the most effective decision-making is the closest possible way of doing the work. Then you can see the local needs you can listen to people, and it will be quick and smooth decisions that are for the best for treatment and for the best for the hospital. It will also stop much of the very important frustration that arises today. We in SV are contacted by health professionals — especially nurses, but also some doctors — who are very frustrated that, when they want small changes that can bring about major improvements in departments, they must, through the joints of the joint, get up to a management that can make a decision. We were at a hospital where all they wanted was to get some table lamps in place. There was one head of one department that just broke the law and decided for itself. He conducted local leadership against what was really the rules of the hospital. The others who followed the rules sought, and almost one year later nothing has yet happened in these departments. On Monday, I was at UNN in Tromsø. There they have carried out this local leadership that the majority today boasts of, and that the Central Party, the Christian People's Party and the SV do not agree to meet the requirement. At UNN, trustees tell us that yes, there are leaders in local departments, but they have no authority. They cannot adopt or do anything — decisions are not taken as closely as possible to the patients and where the work is done. They are almost to be understood as nodding dolls, although it is at least good that they have better relations with their employees and can contribute to governing it. But there are major shortcomings in the situation as it is today. If we want a willingness to change and flexibility in our hospitals, decisions must be taken as closely as possible where the work is done. That's what the Trade Union, the Nursing Association and other important people who do the job in the health care community are asking for. That's why I'm proud that SV, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party are united on a more effective healthcare system that makes decisions where to take them. We want to carry out real local management at our hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1437	Management, working environment, transparency and trust are of great importance both for the individual’s work situation and, not least, for healthcare, for the quality of patient treatment. This is an important area for me, and I, as Minister of Health, have on several occasions asked for increased efforts by health businesses in both the working environment and measures to improve patient safety. It is my opinion that local management is one of several measures to improve the working environment and increase patient safety. Then it is that good management cannot be adopted, it must be developed and worked on over time. I would like to refer to the deliberation of the National Health and Hospital Plan 2016–2019, where the following proposals were adopted: ‘The decision asks the government through the business meeting and/or management documents to ensure that local management becomes the general rule in Norwegian hospitals.’ The request decision was followed up in the business meeting of the regional health enterprises on 4 May 2016. In the business meeting I underlined that the decision provided flexibility for health care businesses to set up management models adapted to local needs. For example, the requirement for local management is: does not preclude the use of cross-sectional clinics, but assumes that there are managers at the various geographical locations authorised to exercise local management. This is also in line with the observation made by the majority in connection with the adoption of the Stortinget. I have been very clear that health companies must ensure an organisation that meets the requirements of the law on uniform management. This includes, inter alia: all hospital staff shall know who is their nearest director. This is important, especially in conversion processes. Changes to structures shall take place in cooperation and in good dialogue with employees and their organisations. One of the important objectives of local management is to contribute to good communication and interaction within the hospital and between hospitals in an area and the municipalities and others with an interest in the hospital. Finally, I would like to withdraw what is claimed by those who tabled the proposal that the decision on local management has not been followed up. In the 2016 annual notification, regional health enterprises reported that all health businesses have followed up the request decision of the EEAS. The reporting also shows how healthcare companies have established local management in their hospitals. This also applies to Health More and Romesdal health businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1453	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1458	According to the codecision barometer, which examines the tripartite cooperation in Norwegian working life, for the last two years, it appears that a number believe that Norwegian working life is moving in an authoritarian direction, that one has less to say at his place of work. Those who report this most are added to the country. They mean this more strongly than they do in jobs with foreign employers. In the state is hospitals. Are these feedbacks that working life is perceived as more authoritarian in the state, in Norwegian hospitals, something that the Council of State is concerned about, also in view of the hospital strike that we had two years ago?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1466	I'm very concerned that one should have openness and good dialogue in our hospitals, not least between the management and the trustees. This is therefore a topic that I regularly deal with both the boards and the managers of the companies. We have also initiated what is now being implemented: an overall study of these conditions in all hospitals. It will give us a much better overview of what is actually the situation, and which is also much more comparable over time, just as a starting point and a follow-up to some of the assignments I have given in this area to the health regions. I am also very clear to leaders at all levels that facilitating good working conditions for the trusted ones, and that being trusted is seen in something that promotes careers, and not hinders careers, is crucial for us to maintain and further develop the good governance model that we have in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1471	It was decided in the National Health and Hospital Plan that city-based rentals should be the main rule. Then we disagree as to whether the decision has been followed up. I don't think it's followed up, as I see it as Stortinget says about it, while the government council and government party think this is followed up. What are the implications of the decision? Is there any hospital that has put in place a city lease after the Stortinge's decision? We know that Health More and Romesdal made decisions on the same day that we adopted it, that they should have a clinic lease with some kind of place function. But it is not in my view what the Storting decided. But is there any hospital for which this decision has had consequences? The left even said that they were required to agree to the agreement that a national health and hospital plan had. That should have led to some changes out there. Where are they?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1478	Yes, there are a number of hospitals that have received this after the decision to which the representative referred, for example: Volda Hospital and Molde Hospital in Health More and Romesdal. So it is that we can continue this discussion, we have had several times, but I have to remind the representative once again that the proposal of the Center Party on local management in connection with the National Health and Hospital Plan was voted down. The proposal that was adopted was a proposal which is entirely in line with what I presented in my introduction, and which I also heard that the Kjerkol representative from the Labour Party reproduced in a good way, namely that this principle should also be dealt with with with with flexibility locally, so that a person is given local adaptations. That's also what the big crowd gave the lead for, and the center part disagreed at that time. But the centre party was voted down at the time, and they seem to be voted down today as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1483	I am not going to bother with more lines, but I am aware that our proposal was voted down – that is not what we are discussing now, in proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox Now there's still a rent, which the Storting also decided on that time. I asked if there are any hospitals that have been given a quiet lease after the Storing Decision on the National Health and Hospital Plan. Then I just have to ask again: does the council answer that Volda Hospital has been given a quiet lease, and that Molde Hospital has been given a quiet lease? Is it the two hospitals that have received a quiet lease after the Stortinget has made its decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1490	No, there are several, but I can't on the standing foot ram them up, but since the representative is very concerned about whether this issue applies especially to More and Romesdal, I thought it was natural to mention the two as examples.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1495	The cord shift is over. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1513	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, the opportunity be given to alternates of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1522	The law is a very important service, and it is a great deal about the security of the citizens. Emergency medical preparedness is essential for the health care of people. It shall provide emergency health care to everyone across the country when they need it. Emergency medicine regulation, which is one of the key elements, was laid down in 2015 with the aim of helping the population to receive, if necessary, immediate assistance from adequate and coordinated emergency medical services outside the hospital, and with close proximity to where they live. It is therefore important to work to strengthen these services, in order to ensure that patients in need of emergency medical care receive the best possible help and treatment. In the context of the proposal for a representative, the majority suggests that the government be asked to amend the emergency medical code §7 so that there is no general requirement for a call-out. In addition, it is proposed to ensure that all medical officers have a system in place to monitor local knowledge and independent vigilance available on the telephone for doctors without independent vigilance. I expect the proposers to explain why they do not want to introduce the requirements set out in Section 7 of the Regulation at all. We see that many municipalities have major challenges in complying with Section 7. For this reason, the Council of State has also informed that it is necessary to postpone the implementation of the requirements of Section 7 of the Regulation so that the municipalities can have better time to do so. We agree that is the right thing to do. However, the consequences of the majority's proposal for a decision to amend the regulation, which is to be dealt with in this matter today, will help to ensure that the quality requirements of those who are to work on the medical guards around the country will be lower than the level of government parties, the Right, the Left and the Advance Party, have wanted to have in the future. We have wanted to strengthen the local medical services by requiring that only doctors specialising in general medicine, and approved general practitioners with defined vigilance skills and training in violence and assault management, can work independently in medicine. Municipalities are obliged to establish back-guarding systems for doctors in shifts who do not meet the competence requirements. This is something we've wanted to do to ensure that when you need urgent medical attention, you have to meet with doctors who have the best conditions to provide the patient with the best possible help and who have the necessary skills to provide the best treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1535	The country is facing a challenge of recruiting the most important part of the healthcare system, namely the prescribers, and with the introduction of this regulation, the emergency medical code, several medical officers are experiencing a worsening of the challenges. That was why the Workers' Party, together with the other parties, was involved in promoting this proposal. In the meantime, the Council of State has postponed this deadline. We still believe it is important to focus on a medical care service that is close enough and good enough, and that is why we are on the alternative proposal in the vote. We all remember the example from Helgeland where one general practitioner had to go on duty every day, 365 days a year, if you were to meet this requirement. So here one needs to develop the subject with the authorities, so that we don't experience an even greater centralization of the medical guards, because proximity is also important in this service.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1542	We have put forward proposals to amend the regulation on emergency medicine § 7 so that there is no general requirement for a rearguard with an obligation to print, and a proposal to ensure that all medical officers have a system in place with local knowledge and self-serving vigilance available on the telephone for persons without self-serving vigilance. These suggestions are going to be multiple for today, and that's what I think is quite right. It is not such that we thus lower the quality requirements of the medical watch. The quality requirements that have been laid down for a rear guard to have an expressive obligation have not worked out there. And what that leads to is that some places in the country are centralized. Then we can ask if it's okay to have centralised medical guards with the right competence, where patients have to travel over an hour to get help. What kind of quality is there in that provision? That is why we have been pleased to make suggestions on this. The alternative is a centralisation of medical services in some district municipalities because one will get an untimely watch load on the remains of the medicaments. I would like to remind you that the wording of the proposal is not random. It says not to set a general requirement for a rear-guard with an expressive obligation. We don't go into detail about whether there should be a differentiation here, whether it should be the case that some people in the audience have come across, that one can create a derogation scheme for those municipalities that can prove that they have recruitment problems and that they can prove that they have remedial measures. It's up to the government to say something about it. But we cannot make a general demand for a rear guard with an obligation of expression to apply to the whole country, because it leads to the centralization of medical guards. It's happened, and I know there's more doctors planning it. There are several professional instances that support us. Among other things, we have received reports from the State Health Authority that think this will increase the vulnerability of the medical services with such an absolute requirement, and they are also afraid of centralisation of the services. The National Centre of Competence for Medical Medicine has an alternative proposal, and the National Centre for District Medicine has also made a call. There is no solution just to postpone this for two more years. There's already been a three-year postponement, and we'll see how it goes. I mean this proposal that we have now made, is what will strengthen Norwegian medical officers, and of course it has to be very different. With this I would recommend the recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1555	The next speaker is Olug Vervik Bollestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1560	Thank you, President. It was nice to be mentioned with both surnames, so thank you. It is good that the Minister of Health and Health will extend the transitional regime for requirements for basic medical competence. It is good that the call-out requirement for doctors who do not meet the requirement of self-monitoring is postponed until 2020. The Committee supports that decision, but the Christian People's Party believes it is important to change the requirement of the regulation to the rearguard and not just postpone it. We are afraid that a mere postponement of the rear guard requirement and not a change can lead to even more centralisation of medical guards. We do not want to weaken the already vulnerable medical services in the district municipalities. Overall, it means a lower level of health for most people. That is why the Christian People's Party supports the setting. It is important to be aware that someone can believe that this is detailed management from Stortinget, but I believe that sitting still and seeing that the health service in District Norway can be weakened cannot be done by Stortingen, and especially when there are vulnerable medical services in district municipalities already. There has been a lot of talk about the set-aside challenges in our country. It's hard to recruit, and it's hard to get enough doctors to take general practice training. There is a difference today between being a doctor and taking specialist training in hospitals. Then the hospital agreed to make arrangements for it. If you are a permanent resident and are required to take the training as a self-employed person, you must pay everything and lose income while you do. This makes it difficult to get enough doctors to take this general education at present. Therefore, the Christian People's Party believes that it is not enough just to look at regulations and medical requirements. We also need to look at how we can secure enough educated people in the primary health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1571	Let the president just add that when he uses both surnames of the representative, it's because he's trying to practice a trust-based city rental of the meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1576	Medical care is a very important service for the population when the help is urgent. The adoption of the emergency medical code in 2015 was a first step on the way to a strengthened medical care service. The medical service is too important for us not to claim the service. At the same time, the consultation of the regulation in 2014-2015 showed that many municipalities, especially in the districts, were concerned that they would be able to meet the competence requirements. That is why, at that time, I commissioned the Health Directorate to evaluate the implementation of the regulation and, in particular, to monitor the development of competence and personnel in the municipalities. At the same time, a three-year transitional arrangement was introduced until 1 May of this year. The Health Directorate delivered its report on 25 January. They recommended extending the transitional regime for the competence requirements of doctors who may have a medical watch on their own without looking back. This provides time for an overall review of the emergency medical code and better predictability for the municipalities. In parallel with the Health Directorate’s evaluation, there have been consultation proposals on regulatory adjustments. These included: the need to adapt the regulation to the 2017 medical competence regulation so that the competence requirements for medical watch should not become more stringent than intended. Many of the hearing bodies were most concerned with the recruitment situation and expressed their primary opinion on it. It was in particular the general requirement of a rear guard for doctors who did not meet the requirements of competence, and the obligation of the rear guard to pull out if necessary, who took them up. There is considerable consistency between the situation descriptions of the consultations and the issues outlined in the Health Directorate’s evaluation report. I have now sent a proposal for a Royal Resolution to be discussed by the Council of State tomorrow. In addition to changes resulting from the consultation, I propose to extend the transitional regime for medical competence requirements until 1 January 2020. This means that general call-out enforcement requirements will not be implemented before that date. In the proposal, I also use the opportunity to clarify the competence requirements of a doctor on a watch, because this provision in the regulation has proved difficult to understand for many. In the period of extended transitional arrangements, on the basis of both the Health Directorate's report and the information provided by the Hearing Officers, I will review the regulation as a whole. Among the things I would like to look at then is the design of the rear guard provision and the exception provision. The proposal for new changes to the emergency medical regulation will then be sent to the general consultation, but municipalities should continue to work towards these requirements. Many municipalities have made considerable efforts to achieve this, and we have not been ordered to make demands on medical competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1589	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1594	I am very pleased with the article from the Council of State. It's quite right, the last state council said, that one has not cancelled setting medical competence requirements. I really agree with that. And that's not what we're suggesting either. The only thing we're suggesting is the demand for a rear guard with an obligation to express. That is what we are discussing, and that is what has also proved problematic. There is no requirement for a rear guard to be present when he or she is not in an independent watchkeeping capacity. It's extremely important, and of course we have to continue to have a claim. It is also such that the municipalities that can extend should, of course, be covered here. Our requirement is that there shouldn't be a general requirement. Will the Council of State consider either exceptional arrangements or other means of ensuring that there is a differentiated approach and ensure that the requirements of competence can be met?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1602	Derogations will be part of the work we are now notifying. Now we have the time that the deferral has given to assess adjustments. This means that proposals will be made for adjustments at general consultation, so that we can get good feedback on them before we implement the new provisions when the deferral is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1607	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1623	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, the opportunity be given to alternates of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1632	This case is based on a proposal from the representatives of the depositors Tuva Moflag, Ingvild Kjerkol, Tore Hagebakken, Tellef Inge Mørland and Siv Henriette Jacobsen from the Workers' Party. The proposal is therefore to develop a national strategy for good nutrition for elderly people receiving care services in hospitals and home care. Proposals suggest that food and meals for the elderly are an important part of the municipal care service’s mission, both in nursing homes and in home care. These are views shared by the entire Committee. Meals are a positive daily event that represents more than the intake of nutrients. In addition, it is important to stress that good nutrition can be a decisive factor both in the treatment of disease and in maintaining function as far as possible in older people. This will increase the quality of life and, above all, save society for the costs of keeping health longer, unless morbidity and fewer hospitalisations. A report from the Health Directorate on nutrition in nursing homes showed that 50,5 pst. health care residents aged 67 and over were assessed to have a nutritional risk in the last 12 months. Of these, 36.1 had pst. a nutritional risk to malnutrition. At the same time, when there is a lack of systematic follow-up of the individual’s nutritional status, it may be difficult to capture users at risk of malnutrition. The Committee notes the letters of the Council of State to the Committee of 20 February this year that the Government has presented its own five-year action plan on better diets, such as: contains measures to ensure good nutrition quality. The Committee considers that the prevention of malnutrition among the elderly receiving health and care services is a management responsibility. It is not sufficient to draw up national professional guidelines and strategies if they are not incorporated into the services. In the light of national recommendations, municipalities and hospitals need to develop their own strategies and action plans for good nutrition. The members of the Committee from the Right, the Left and the Advance Party point out that food and meals will be one of the main initiatives in the big news Life throughout life. The cancellation message is expected to be submitted before the summer. These parties indicate that the reform will be based on the experience of municipalities and that the good solutions available will be disseminated to the rest of the country. As a result, the members of the Committee of these parties would like to wait for new decisions to be taken before the notification of the decision. In this way, we believe that the Storting ensures the most complete approach to such an important matter. The recommendation of the members of the Committee from the Right, the Progress Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party is that the proposal for a representative should not be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1647	Today, the Labour Party is pleased to feed older people on the political agenda. We are proud to propose a comprehensive national strategy for good nutrition and nutrition for elderly people receiving services, both in hospitals and in the home, and for voluntary organisations to be able to strengthen their work so that older and single people can have a meal with them. Just think about how we feel about this at Stortinget. Sunn, nutritious and good food is easily available, and we have a nice social community to share the food with. Most of us have at least that, I hope. We can all recognize how important this is to our own well-being and to our own health. Meals are a positive daily event that represents more than the intake of nutrients. It's taste, smell, presentation, togetherness and experience. Government parties have also shown the importance of the smell of food and the kitchen, in their government platform. There are strong traditions associated with food. It gives identity and belonging and maintains a close fellowship with other people. In the last few months, I have visited Fredrikstad, Larvik and Ski. These are Arbeiderparti-steered municipalities that work well with food, and I am proud that Ski was selected for this year's Food Company in 2017 for the good job they do at Solborg Hospital and the kitchen there. For the elderly living at home, good nutrition can help put off the need for a happy day’s care, and health care facilities are scarce in society today. Preventing malnutrition in the elderly is perhaps one of the most accurate things we can do. There will be twice as many older people in Norway in the next 20 years. The Labour Party will help people stay fresher, so that they can stay at home for a long time. We are pleased with the support of the red-green parties and find it a pity that the bourgeois see neither the personal gain nor the socio-economic gain of this proposal. With that, I address the proposals that the Workers' Party is promoting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1662	The representative, Tuva Moflag, has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1667	The working party said they were happy to raise the matter today. I am pleased that the government has been busy with this since we took over four years ago, and that one has actually also had a competition where one has encouraged and stimulated the municipalities and the institution kitchens to compete on how to make the good meal moments – a fantastic project. I have traveled around and visited a nursing home. One year I was allowed to join the jury to get the best nursing home in Norway in terms of food quality and how to work to make the food taste good and look good. There is something the Progress Party is concerned about, which the government is concerned about, and an area that you are also working on to do more. It is good that the Workers' Party has read the Jeløya platform, because there is just food and food quality and not least that you should get a smell back on the nursing homes, an important thing. I also think it is important to signal that there are actually many municipalities, hospitals, who have very good food quality, and who are busy with the food that is served at the hospital. But we've also seen examples, for example. in Halden, where the municipality has a nursing home and the prison is near the hospital. There's been a look-up in the media, unfortunately, that there's been a big difference in the quality of food. Therefore, it is important to put this properly on the agenda, so it is important to look at how and when you are going to have meals, etc. As the government and the Advance Party have been concerned about, one would like, among other things. moving meals, especially dinner, until later in the day. There have been very good results in several places. I was in Westfold today talking for the elders there. There was also one of those who have been really concerned about this with the food, namely the cook in a nursing home in Sandefjord, who works in an excellent way to make the food look, taste and smell better and give good advice to others who are also concerned about it. So I feel that the suggestion here is to turn open doors, and that it's actually done a lot already. We're waiting for the message Life all my life, where I also know that nutrition, food and food are going to be an important part. I'm looking forward to it coming. This is a very important area in which we have been concerned for many years – both the Advance Party and the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1682	It's very important to live your whole life, so it's something nice to wait for. But when it comes to this matter, the Center Party believes that it's not enough to wait for a big message when there's a very concrete work that relates to nutrition that needs to be strengthened in the services. We will support the proposal of the Labour Party. It's true, as they have written in the comments, that diet matters to the individual's quality of life, but I want to focus more on the professional. It is only the Workers' Party that is in a comment with us where we point out that nutrition must be part of therapeutic responsibility, and that follow-up of patients' nutritional status is part of the medical treatment supply. It is not sufficient to present a message in a parent folder. We need to ensure that the nutritional work and prevention of malnutrition are implemented in the services. It's nice to see the good copies out there, and we can learn from them. But we think that one has to go to work thoroughly and consider this part of the controller's responsibility. It's not today. So we also believe that it is important that a new strategy includes not only older people, but all seriously ill people who accept care services. Today, patients die of malnutrition in Norway — patients die of malnutrition after being hospitalized. In a health care system as developed as we have, it's a big paradox. We can't have it that way. It is also a paradox that we have all the world's good professional national guidelines for this work. The last of them were developed by the Health Directorate in 2010. I've read them, they're very good, they're concrete, they're simple, and they have clear actions – what needs to be done in the services – etc. that everyone at risk is given an individual nutrition plan where this is followed up systematically. I do not want to focus on the systematic nutrition work in the services, to ask you what the status is, what the weight is, how it is followed up, and what the risk is of being undernourished when you stop. And then that's the problem with the last 20 centimeters that no one's talking about. It can be all the world's good food, great dishes, delicious dishes, but when you don't get help getting food from the plate and up to the mouth, it doesn't help – if you don't have good relatives coming and going. This is also a problem that I'm busy with. It doesn't help with good food if you don't get it into your stomach. I refer to the proposal No. 3 and 4, which is the center part.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1701	Then the representative Kjersti Toppe has drawn up the proposals she made.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1706	Sunn food is healthy. It affects the whole body, it affects health, it affects the ability to get health when you're sick, and it makes people happy. So I was really thinking about starting with another example of how food can be important. When SV crashed, we introduced school fruit in all secondary schools in Norway. It made the students eat more fruit in school, it also made them eat more fruit and green after school, and they drank less soda and ate less candy. It shows that good and healthy food has amazing health benefits. We have previously discussed in the Health Committee whether we can do more to prevent rather than just repair damage. Good and healthy food is one of the best and cheapest tools we can use to do that. Older people keep better when they get good food – and then they get happy. I think we've all seen the horror stories of some nursing homes with quite terrible food, which at least I don't want to eat. One thing is that it hurts health, but it also makes sense to be old. And it shouldn't be like that. Luckily, most people have good food, and we're going to celebrate that. That is why I am pleased that the Red-Green parties together are supporting the Workers' Party's very good proposals to have a strategy and cooperation with the ideal providers on this and a strategy for healthy nutrition. But I would also like to say that I am quite disappointed that it is only the Center Party and SV of all the parties on the Stortinget who want to support the knowledge-building around this by ensuring that there are nutrition physiologists in the municipalities, and that there is to be knowledge of nutrition in the health-professional education. I would think that the other parties would at least vote for either – or. It is now both against increasing the knowledge of nutrition in health professional education and against having one's own nutrition physiologists. I think that's stupid, because I think it would have been good with more knowledge. It would create better health, and really it's cheaper in the long run, because it's better to prevent than to repair.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1715	With the risk of interpreting errors, I first want to comment on Hoksrud's comparison of hospitals and prisons. With a strong memory of the prison sites we saw yesterday, I think everyone deserves a good, nutritious diet, no matter what they've done in life. It's important for me to say from this pulpit. So to this thing. Diet and nutrition are closely linked to treatment and drug use, for everything can affect taste, smell and therefore also appetite. In addition, diet and nutrition are part of the quality of life of individuals. Meals are too many communities, belongings and culture. There's a lot of tradition and a lot of memories in food and food communities. That is why on many occasions the Christian People's Party has raised the issue of competence in this field. Local kitchens in local hospitals and with knowledge of tradition – understanding culture, understanding food tradition, preparing and understanding what atmosphere means – have a good knowledge of the individual’s disease image and drug use. This Christian People's Party believes must be further developed and seen in a larger context of good care. When the Christian People's Party does not vote for the proposals, it is not because we do not think they are good. This is because the Council of State has announced that this is central to the coming big news Life all its life, and the Christian People’s Party has expectations that the government will deliver. If the government does not deliver what they have promised, and what the council has written in letters, the Christian People's Party will stand on the barricades to make this important in the treatment that comes then.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1724	I agree with the proposers that food and meals for the elderly are an important part of the task of the municipal care service. That is why I am also pleased that we are so many here today who are concerned about food and meals, and that this is an important arena for better health both for the body and – not least – for the top. In March 2017, we presented a five-year action plan for better diets, including: to make measures to ensure the quality of nutrition activities visible. Food and meals are one of the areas of interest in the new quality reform for the elderly, Life throughout life, which has also been mentioned here by several representatives. I am concerned that older people will have nutritious food that looks good, smells and tastes good, and that is not least adapted to the individual's assumptions and needs. I'm also very concerned that the food is served in a nice frame, and that those who want it have someone to eat with. This was also the representative of Bollestad who was involved in his post, and I fully support it. Many municipalities have already taken steps to create good food and nutrition. There are challenges in municipalities, but they also do. These are just the good examples from all over the country that we are now going to raise and spread to other municipalities throughout Life. The goal is to help older people master their lives longer and to ensure that they get good help when they need it. Many municipalities develop good cooperation with voluntary eating friends, which are also mentioned in this Document 8 proposal, or meal friends. It is above the Ministry of Culture budget for 2018 set at 5 million. to non-governmental organisations involved in the provision of meals for the elderly and single residents. I also refer to the new quality indicators, which were first published in 2017, and which deal with the follow-up of nutrition in hospital residents and also the follow-up of nutrition in the home. Indicators provide important information that could contribute to the strengthening of nutrient work in municipalities, including countering under- and under-employment among user groups. I believe that the measures and processes that are now in progress, together with the proposals that I will make in the Single European Act, will, overall, take care of the content of the proposal for a representative. And should it be that we're discovering that here there are some chairs that aren't put together tightly enough, so that something falls between them, I'm going to be the first to take this up in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1742	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1747	Government parties refer to the Life message throughout their lives and use it, among other things. as a reason why they do not support the proposal. I want to draw the attention of the Council of State to the fact that there are very high expectations for Life throughout the whole life of the autumn and spring. I wonder if the Council of State can say something about what concrete measures Life throughout life will come with in terms of nutrition. The council mentions that there are many good examples from the municipalities. Yes, I would like to mention Ski, Nittedal, Larvik and Fredrikstad, who all work well with nutrition, but I hope that the staging message will be more than an inspirational catalogue, that it should actually be a tool for municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1752	First of all, Life builds its whole life on all the good news of big business that has come, both Care 2020 and other plans that lie as a platform at the bottom. When just the municipalities have so many good suggestions, it shows that learning from each other, having a learning network, doesn't always have to cost a lot of money. For example, we all know about moving the serving time for dinner in a nursing home, or we see that other municipalities, like Bergen, have eating friends, which you get on the purchase and get two meals at the door. In my municipality, Mandal, we are now trying to get older people together into a different environment than a nursing home or home. We see that these are concrete proposals, but local democracies have a responsibility to address this and look at it in a context to see what they want to deliver good care and health care.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1757	Yes, there are many good examples from the municipalities, and the municipalities are good at learning from each other already. What I'm asking is what the Council of State will contribute, not what the municipalities themselves will contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1762	As I said, when Life comes all your life, all these good suggestions are there. I'm very concerned – you'll also see when the message is presented – how I think implementation, how I think this can be done, how we might be able to create a kind of cookbook, and how this should be simplified in order to reach the individual representative of the local government, whom I know well about how to work, to understand the starting point. There I am quite clear on what I expect back. But again: I believe that giving trust to local government representatives, who know their municipality best – I also believe the representative who stands here, knows well how a local government works – is the key to getting a good offer, to taking ownership of the responsibility you have in the municipality you sit as a local government, to provide the good services. So I'll do what I can to influence and be clear on what I expect back.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1767	Parents who are at nutritional risk live in the municipality, but are often admitted to hospitals, and they are admitted several times. I wonder if Life's whole life, and the work to be done for diet and nutrition there, should only be in the hands of the municipalities, or if the Council of State, which is also the Minister of Public Health, will do something active now for the nutrition and diet of patients admitted to Norwegian hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1772	One of the main thrusts of the communication will be the coherence of services, including, of course, nutrition as an important piece. We are also based on the basis of national professional guidelines for the prevention and treatment of malnutrition, and there is just a fact that persons at nutritional risk should have an individual nutrition plan – not that they should have, or that it might need to be assessed – it is quite clear that they should have. And that interaction, the good transitions and the cooperation between the municipality and the hospital needs a few more. So let's put the user in the center. We want these transitions and these contexts in healthcare – we want a much better relationship. This is like one of the knives; there's a lot that deals with this area in the plan that's coming. So you can just enjoy it coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1781	The government parties and the state councils again refer to the reform Live their whole lives talking about municipalities sharing information. Municipalities can already do that today, and they do that in a big monn. We in SV are nevertheless curious about this reform, and we want a response from the Council of State to whether it is actually going to be a proper reform. That is why I would like to ask the Council of States quite specifically: will there be proposals for legislative changes and earmarked funds to create an actual reform and not just a trade-in-the-fucking mind map?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1786	Now I'm not going to overshoot what's coming. I also believe that the representative, although he is new, knows that this will be dealt with in the budget and not through a big message. What we're concerned about in that message is that we're just going to see things in a context. Although the municipalities learn from each other, we see that it might not be good enough, because then many of these good things would have been implemented everywhere. This has also been requested around the country – a desire for a slightly closer relationship between municipalities and municipalities. Then I also have to remind you that this is a reform that has started out in the municipalities. It has started with Labour Party rapporteurs, Senterparti rapporteurs, etc., and it has been seen that they have something good in their municipality that they can share with other municipalities. It's all of these things that we've collected and put into system. But it is based on all the good decisions laid down by law, regulation and care 2020. Everything that's done is at the bottom. So there are the very concrete things on which this is based.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1795	I don't fully understand the answer. SV's representatives already share good proposals, such as that we want a right to live on a single room, as we have proposed for the Stortinget, but as the government parties have voted down, and that we want to ensure better food in the hospitals. So we suggest, and we share information. We also know that this comes into the budget, but we are very concerned, because this is a reform where the government parties have promised enormously. To be honest, we in SV fear that it's going to be a mind map, that there's going to be some loose ideas that you hope someone will read, and maybe implement. That is why I ask again: this will be dealt with later, but if you are to designate funds, the message would be that you have a plan for what those resources, for example. must go to. Will there be any proposals for amended and reinforced rights for older people laid down in law, earmarked means or other things, which will make this more than just a thought map and solve suggestions?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1804	I really hope not that the representative believes that having a mind map, if that's what he sees, means that you don't trust local democracy and the individual municipal or city government representative sitting out there, who is actually elected to do a job for their citizens. Then the representative refers to SV always sharing his good ideas. Yeah, but there aren't so many SVs out there that can share with each other, so maybe that's one of the reasons why all of these good ideas haven't come out. But again, I have great faith in local democracy. I believe in the system we have in our society, that local democracy and those who sit there know the municipality best, what they need in the municipality, and what new measures need to be taken. I have great faith that the individual municipality will take care of the needs of its older people, the wishes of its older people, and put the users, the elderly, in the centre to get this right.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1814	The cord shift is over. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1821	This debate, and not least this change of lines, has well confirmed what everyone has really feared – that the expectations of the big message Life life is built up higher and higher, but that the big message will not deliver. It already goes under different names, like the inspirational catalogue and mind maps, and the council itself called it a cookbook. Of course, a good cookbook is important if you are going to work on nutrition and if you are going to get a better diet. But the most important thing is action – the most important is the means of purchasing raw materials, so that you can get good nutrition from it. If you only cook soup on a nail, there won't be much improvement in this area. I see such an attitude as actually disclaiming responsibility for actions, for priorities and for concrete means that can improve the situation. Not enough: You point out that things are pleasant, pleasant, cozy – you don't really take the professional part in this. You don't take seriously that people actually die of malnutrition today. It is not taken seriously that half of those who are discharged from hospitals are in a nutritional risk zone, and that is the main reason why people get cleaned up. This costs society millions of dollars and should be seen in the context of good professional advice on measures such as: in the field of dental health, with legislative changes and with earmarked budget resources. Yes, it is important to have faith in the individual, and it is important to have faith in the municipalities, but they cannot magic. So if we are to improve the situation, we need to make a concrete proposal, we need budgetary resources, and we need to do so. If this doesn't work out, there's no reason to think there's anything better in this area. At least there is reason to believe that the cookbook ends up with a stomach patch, that it does not improve the stomach content of the individual elderly, and that the condition does not improve as to how many die from nutritional problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1832	I heard the representative of Bollestad and the insinuations that involved comparing the food at the hospital and the food at the Halden prison. It's not because the food has to get worse in prison – it's actually about getting better food in the hospital. I think it's a little bad to insinuate something from the look-up that was yesterday, which I think touched a lot – yes, most people – when you saw how some prisoners feel, given that they have great mental problems. Then I have to be careful, because I guess I saw something like that that I was happy to live my whole life. I think maybe I'm going to redefine it so that I look forward to the big message Life my whole life. But I also want to say something after hearing the previous speeches, which talk about the state and that we have to make a plan, etc., but do not have confidence in their more than 200 rapporteurs who run Norwegian municipalities. There are over 200 Labour Party rapporteurs in this country. The Progress Party wants a model of state-funded care for the elderly, but we have been quite alone about that. But we have got with the government parties, and cooperation parties in the last period, to start trials in some municipalities. It's a huge success, and I think maybe some of the representatives should take a look there, because they're busy with these things, too. And when I hear the previous representative complaining about the economy: the local economy has never been better than what it has been after these four years. I also think it should be noticed that some of those who are actually the best at food, who do this the best way, are not municipalities that spend the most money on each. It's about how to do it, and how to think, about the philosophy and about the creativity that all employees are allowed to have. It happens in different municipalities, and I've been told that at least some of those who have won the contest Golden Meal Moments are not the ones who spend the most money – they are the ones who have creativity, and the leaders who actually go ahead and are concerned that we should do this in a good way, because you are dedicated to giving good nutrition to those who live there. I think you should bring it with you when you have this debate, because it sounds like all the municipalities are starving. It is also fun to know that some of the municipalities that do not have property taxes provide as good services as municipalities that charge property taxes – see. Furnace products, cf. We, who are able to deliver good services without always having to have property taxes, as the rapporteur in Porsground, from the Workers' Party, always screams about every time someone discusses the property tax and he has to raise it. Then it's about him having to do it because he's going to deliver care for the elderly. But others are able to deliver care for the elderly and good services without property taxes, without always calling out to everyone else, but actually doing something for themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1847	It is quite surprising to hear the representative from the Progress Party say that there is nothing to say how much money you spend. If one municipality spends NOK 1 on food and another spends NOK 200 – of course it is possible to buy better raw materials in the municipality that use more money. Is that the only thing that has anything to say? No, of course it's not, and that's why the Center Party and SV, among other things. suggested that we should have nutrition physiologists in municipalities, that we should have more knowledge of health worker training on how to cook and how to use food. But that's what the government parties are against. So I agree that we have to spend money wisely, but to create the impression that it has nothing to say about how much money we spend on food – anyone who goes out today to shop for their meal from a grocery store can tell you that is just nonsense. Then it is repeated from the Progress Party that the municipalities have such a terrible economy. That's not true. The municipalities have profits this year. Everyone sitting here knows that it's because they've calculated much weaker tax inputs than they've ended up getting. That's because the economy has now improved more than you thought it would. Then they go in profit. But to say that it's because they have such a round and good economy -- that's not true. I have to say I'm worried, because I understood little about nothing from the Council of State – we have confidence in local democracy. I don't quite understand what it's going to mean, but it sounds like it means that you haven't really thought to make any changes, and that local democracy is just going to be allowed to go on like before. It sounds nice to someone. For SV, it is important that we guarantee a guarantee to all older people in Norway for a decent and good care for the elderly, and that is what we are willing to legislate. SV is with the government on many notes about Life all his life. We want to play teams and work together and have said what we think is important. Today, we are also showing that we are voting in favour of good proposals, as a guarantee of cohabitation, when it can get a majority, because we are committed to what is best for the elderly, not the party that proposes it. And that's why I'm particularly disappointed to get such an answer to the reform that we've been promised for so long now, live my whole life. We must therefore wait to adopt important things for good nutrition in the municipalities, following the good proposals of the Workers' Party, because there is to be a reform in which the Council of State has confidence in local democracy. I want to say it from this pulpit so that it has been taken up until this reform comes, that if the reform turns out to be what we now fear, a loose mindset without concrete help, without new rights, law decisions or funding, we will go against it because the elderly in Norway deserve better than to be met with a loose mindset. They deserve new, strong rights, better municipalities with enough resources to provide them with the well-being, care and dignity they deserve.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1858	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1874	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, the opportunity be given to alternates of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1883	I can convey a greeting from the rapporteur, who does not have the opportunity to be here. She would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in this matter. This proposal will draw attention to the right of the elderly to live with their partner or spouse even when moving into a nursing home. Many of us take it as a matter of course to share our everyday lives with our spouse or roommates, and this is maybe a person you've shared your everyday life with over half your life. No healthcare professional can replace the safety provided. Now, this government has already introduced a right of residence in hospital or equivalent housing specifically designed for lucky day services. A natural extension of this is to allow the cohabiter or spouse to be accompanied by the load, if both parties so wish. For the Right, however, it is wrong whether there is disease and care needs that determine whether one should be able to live together. The security and joy of living with their loved one is equally strong even if one of the parties is healthy. There has been a debate on the cost of this today and in the last few days. It's been problematized. To that I would say that there is no one who today decides that the municipalities should give healthy people free stay at the hospital. Nor is it that most healthy people are looking to live in a nursing home, but for some this is important. For some, it's to be able to share the last time with your loved one, the way you've done through maybe your whole life, the most important of all. We will therefore give this right, which several municipalities already give today, to everyone, and I am happy that this today gets a majority in this Chamber. It can be mentioned that some municipalities have introduced this. It hasn't been a run, and I don't think anyone has a strong desire to move into an institution, but in some cases this is a real problem, and then we don't want to get in the way of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1896	Let there be no doubt: the working party is for a joint-owner's guarantee in the care of the elderly. This is precisely why the Workers' Party has proposed such a guarantee. With this guarantee, we will ensure that couples and cohabitants do not split and place in each of their care services for the last time of their lives. With inspiration from Gunvor and Charles from Arendal, we want to make sure that couples get space together, if they want it. The assumption is that both depend on care services. That is how we in the Labour Party think about health and care policies: we should always give priority to those who need the most. Now the government, with the support of SV, will go further. With the guarantee of cohabitation now in place, healthy relatives, i.e. people without care, will have the right to move into the country's nursing home. The working party believes that both visits and overnight stays should be well organised for healthy relatives, but guaranteeing a place in health care homes for healthy people is unrealistic when there are twice as many older people in the next 20 years. For the government, it seems more important to overwhelm the Workers' Party in this matter than to ensure that our limited health funds are used on those who need it the most. It is a paradox that the government is in favour of retaining the grant for the rehabilitation of nursing homes and voting against strengthening the grant to day-time activities places for people with dementia, but now the government is going to put a real strain on the big room and guarantee that healthy relatives are given room in nursing homes. For the Workers' Party, it is important that municipalities are central suppliers of the services for which they are responsible. The size and municipal sector must play a role. There are many who warn against the government's proposal. KS is against, trade union is against, nurses are against. So we're talking about a proposal that can have a big impact on the nursing homes in our municipalities. Municipalities have made a formidable effort to transform into single rooms. They are intended for one needy resident, who may need to take care of and care several times during the day and night. It's a gross simplification to say that you can just put in an extra bed. What happens that day the sick partner dies? Is the fresh one being thrown out? Is it really right that this guarantee should be introduced without costs and consequences being investigated? The fact that SV has more money to spend on public services than the Workers' Party is nothing new, but that the Right would join in on this, surprises me. We hope the Right and the other parties in the government are thinking and voting for the solution the Workers' Party has promoted today, to get knowledge about costs and consequences first and to take the decision afterwards. I want to finish my post with the title of Kristin Clement's blog today. It simply says here: ‘The working party is right’. With that, I will deal with the proposals we have made.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1911	The representative, Tuva Moflag, has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1916	First of all, I would like to say that the centre party does not like the use of the word ‘guarantee’. To meet challenges in the care of the elderly and otherwise in the health services by providing guarantees about this and hints we think is an unwise way to pursue policies. But there is a possibility for the Storting to adopt something, while the municipalities have to pay. We think it's more serious to steer through laws, regulations and guidelines. Guarantees are not. One does not receive such guarantees from the Center Party, nor do we have that wording in our proposals. The regulation in force today, on a worthy care for the elderly, states that the care of the elderly is to be ‘organised in such a way as to contribute to a dignified, safe and meaningful old age’. And on the other hand, « in respect of the individual’s right of self-determination, self-worth and conduct of life [[...]] [[...]] The service offer should allow the user to have the most possible normal life. Therefore, it is not special to discuss whether couples or cohabitants who have lived together throughout their lives should be separated because of illness, if they themselves have a strong desire that it should not happen. Then I think it's natural that we have a health care service that tries to fix it. It may also be a natural consequence of what is currently the current regulation on the content of care for the elderly. I also understand the discussion that is coming, that we cannot give healthy relatives a guarantee or a right to move into a nursing home if one really does not have a care need, because there are many others who have a greater need out there, and it will be possible to take resources – care resources and economic resources – from a pressed health service. I agree with what the representative Sveinung Stenland said: this is not a big need, but there may be someone. But I understand that it's being discussed. In this respect, the centre party has put forward a new proposal in the Chamber today, where we: ‘whether the government facilitates the possibility for married couples or cohabitants who wish to do so to live together even when both or one of them have to move to an institution. In cases where one party is not entitled to care services, it is assumed that the offer will not require special additional resources or result in other caregivers losing their offer. The consequences of such a scheme must be investigated by the State and the municipalities in cooperation.’;» We will not include our proposal in the vote, proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox We shall vote in favour of proposal No. 3, from the Labour Party and the Christian People's Party, and proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1941	The representative Kjersti Toppe has drawn up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1946	It is good that the Workers' Party has read the Jeløya platform, because there it is very clear that you want a joint-owner's guarantee. The Progress Party has long been in favour of a proper bond guarantee. It was also for the Workers' Party in the election campaign, and then it was called a love guarantee. But a prerequisite for the Workers' Party's love guarantee is that both are ill, and both have to stay in a nursing home in order to be allowed to live together. It's not a real bond guarantee. The working party says they're for this. Well, we know that it took a long time in Arendal before Charles and Gunvor were allowed to live together, and they actually met the criteria that the Workers' Party says they're busy with. To challenge this, we have asked our local representatives around promoting proposals on this – and that is interesting. Then Arbeiderparti-representatives in several municipalities voted against having a cohabitation guarantee at all. In some places, the proposals are forwarded to the administration for further investigation, perhaps in view of the fact that this matter was to be debated here today. The bond guarantee now offered by the majority is about having the opportunity to live in rooms with their spouse. You must not do as the Labour Party does in this debate; just see the problems. We also need to see what opportunities and positive effects this can have. This may in fact mean that the person who lives with his or her spouse can create security and a good framework with his or her spouse. That might also mean that you can be with the others in the department. You might even have time, because you're a retired person yourself and you don't have to do all the other things that the people at home do. I think, unfortunately, that someone is too busy to see the problems instead of seeing all the positive that this can lead to. This is not going to cost the municipality a lot of money, because if you need care services even if you don't need a nursing home, you will get paid for the cost of home care by the municipality anyway. It is fully possible to do so by paying a special charge for the costs incurred by the municipality. In Frogn they have had this for over six months, and there has been no problem. It hasn't been a big challenge. This is an opportunity and a choice for the family to live together if you want to. You can do this in a good way, and I think a lot of municipalities do that. But the Labour Party is clearly opposed to this. I think it's because they really don't want a real and real bond guarantee for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1961	This is a good day for the elderly in Norway. Love is one of the most important things we have – the right to choose who we want to spend our lives with. For some, it might be the only thing they have -- the right not to be separated from the one they've loved and been with all their lives, the last few years they'll be in life. 95-year-old Gunvor and 94-year-old Charles have lived together all their lives. Then Gunvor was going to be in a nursing home, while Charles was going to be left alone at home. They both thought this was bad. They had lived a life together, but now the municipality was to separate them by coercion. That is what SV believes is wrong, and that is why we want a joint-owner's guarantee. We believe that we should facilitate the elderly. They're the ones in the center, not the municipalities. It has to be corrected in some misunderstandings here, because this is not a luxury proposal. Fresh people shall have no additional care. They shall have the care they have already decided on. They have to move into the room of their spouse. It has been said here that fresh people should be moved into the hospital – it is very misleading. They shall be moved into the room of the person who already has a room. Charles didn't want a room of his own, just to stay with Gunvor. And they have to pay for themselves, pay for their food. Not many healthy people want to move into a nursing home. Not many people have asked for it, and in Frogn, who has this arrangement, there has also been no flood. But for some older people, this could be the last, most important thing in their entire lives, like for Gunvor and Charles. It's very important that there's no pressure to live together, in case you really don't want to. Therefore, together with the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party, SV has promoted an additional proposal that the government should ensure that the arrangement is voluntary for the couples. We should like to have the government include this as well. I am proud that the cohabitation guarantee will now be included in the national criteria for the allocation of long-term residence. For SV, it's always important, and we'll say here that the government has to include the trade unions, the municipalities and the users when the exact criteria are drawn up. It's the trade unions and their people who are going to do the job, and they have to be included when this is taken in, in a proper way. When the government parties promote the proposal, we assume that as usual they have received approval from the ministry and thus have a good overview of the costs and consequences, as we always rely on the Stortinget side. It also trusts SV in this situation. However, I would like to clarify the SV's addition to the case: no caregiver should lose services because of this proposal. It's a prerequisite for us to support it, and without us, it's not a majority. I expect the Council of State will follow closely that the caregivers always go first in line.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1980	I don't think there's anyone in this room who doesn't think it's important to get people to live together for as long as possible. Nor is there anyone in this room who thinks that we in Norwegian nursing homes and nursing homes want to accommodate so well that it is almost as if you had it at home. I think everyone agrees, but we want one to be as far together as possible. The Christian People's Party will vote in favour of a cohabitation guarantee, but not in favour of the government's proposal. The Christian People's Party believes it is right to give married couples and cohabitants the opportunity to be together in nursing homes if they both have a need for help. The Christian People's Party believes it is the wrong priority to impose on all municipalities an obligation to give people without the need for help the right to a place in a nursing home. When the queues are long, when the government proposes to reduce the funds to rehabilitate Norwegian nursing homes after 2021, when we have worked day and night to make room for everyone, and when we have problems keeping pace with the development capacity – not only under this government, but also under the previous government – then I think it is unreasonable to demand that municipalities provide space without the need for help. When we know that the places are broken, and that we need indications and specifications for people to be entitled to hospitalization, the Christian People's Party believes that this is the wrong priority. I think the majority should think through the costs and what's practical in an exclusive room where you have a patient bed, maybe a scooter, maybe an oxygen device and maybe a lift if you don't have a roof hoist. This creates an incredible number of challenges for those who are going to have to live a normal life on a single space with the one you're happy with. What happens to the one that gets space and really is healthy? Is one too passive? Get a use of what one has, and maintain the freshness, so that one is able to do things the day in which one is happy, is there no more? For the Christian People's Party, it is incredibly important to make arrangements, but not to make demands. That is why the Christian People's Party supports the proposals of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e1993	This government will ensure that couples who want it can live together in nursing homes or in nursing homes. Many older people are used to sharing their everyday lives with their spouse, roommate or girlfriend. Moving to an institution or a nursing home is experienced by many as a major upheaval. If we can make this transition a little bit easier, while at the same time facilitating love and not least security, this must be a good thing we're going to work to achieve for those who want it. I am therefore pleased that the majority is committed to ensuring the guarantee of cohabitation. Once we have gained experience from the state experiment and from what is happening in the municipalities with the municipal regulations, I will consider how we can incorporate provisions on cohabitation guarantees into the national criteria for long-term hospitalisation or similar housing specifically designed for lucky day services. I would, however, be concerned that this must be a scheme for couples who actually want it themselves. It's important to have in mind that there may be good reasons why some couples don't want to live together in a nursing home. This may have to do with everything from the need for tranquillity at night, with snoring or uneasy and romantic girlfriends, to the need to recover if the nearest has a severe illness. We also have to bear in mind that the healthy spouse may want to stay in their common home, as this home is full of memories and experiences from the time you've had together. This is what we want and need to respect and facilitate. Therefore, it should not be the case that the individual relative feels like he or she is in some sort of expectation of staying in a nursing home. I'm particularly concerned about that. But the main characters in this case are actually the ones who want to live together. I am therefore pleased that we will now ensure that couples who want it will be able to live together when you are older and there is a need for comprehensive health and care services. This, hopefully, means that it is now over when the need for a sick home place, or a need for health and care services, leads to the need to separate couples and cohabitants who have lived together for the rest of their lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2013	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2018	It is true that our municipalities have worked hard over the last few years to make it possible for us to stay as much as possible in one room – in fact, it is about 98 pst. of our nursing homes that are unique now. In the Ski Municipality, where I have been rapporteur, we have a few larger living rooms that can accommodate two people, but the vast majority of the rooms are exclusive to one person. Does the Council of State think that a room intended for one resident is suitable for putting in an extra bed, or does she think that we should make more larger living rooms? If so, would she propose that the grant for rehabilitation of nursing homes be maintained?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2025	The representative addresses a very relevant question — how we're going to solve it. I'm thinking again that we're going to be a little bit of a bump and be positive and look at it. As the representative also mentions from his home municipality, there is a slightly larger room. And after what you experience, it won't be as much demand as some might make it. This means that such a slightly larger room can of course be used, but it is different from municipality to municipality. I see, of course, that there may be challenges: if it's detonated capacity, and if all the spaces are obsessed with two and two, which we don't want if it's not voluntary. And as I also think the representative was clear in his question, I see that being able to have his relative in the same room, rooms that are arranged as single rooms, should be possible. It's not like all rooms are 7 or 8 m 2 ; most hospitals have rooms that make it possible to get a solution in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2033	Now it's the House Bank that sets the standard for what the living rooms look like, because that's what's triggering the grants from the state, and both the Nurses' Association and the Trade Union, etc. warns that most rooms, i.e. 98 pst., are not suitable. But my question no. 2 goes on with the expectations you can feel like a fresh touch. The Council of State has given some thought to what pressure you can feel from the environment, from yourself, from descendants, etc. to move in with his sick partner - can't you move in with Mom, can't you move in with Dad, it'll be so sad for him or her alone? What does the Council of State think about that?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2040	I think the representative heard what I thought about it when I kept my post, I was just in that bit. I don't think that's a big challenge. Now I come straight from a larger meeting where both the House Bank and others were present, where one really looked at who comes to the hospital, to see what the potential is – to say it like that. When we know that two thirds of those who come to the hospital are lonely initially, and reach about 80 pst. Of those who are there, are people with a dementia diagnosis, it goes without saying that the pressure on a relative is demanding – I think, without knowing it, none of us know. But once again, I think we're going to put the user, the individual elderly, in the center. We haven't talked much about the word'security'. I think it's very good for someone who comes to a nursing home, and who feels that there's a little uncertain situation, to have his or her partner next to him – at night and in the daytime – that you know and can hold in your hand.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2049	The council said in its contribution that she would facilitate love, and that is well said. But in the municipality, at least you can't live on air and love – this could cost money. Now it is also said about joint guarantee in the government platform. It's the government itself that gets multiples and not the opposition. I would assume that the government is not in favour of such a proposal without having figured out what the consequences are, whether there should only be an offer where there is free capacity – because I also heard the Council of State problematize – or whether there should be a real guarantee for everyone. What we are dealing with in our proposal is that this should not be introduced without knowing the consequences. My question is: Does the government know the consequences of the proposal – what kind of economic consequences it will have, what kind of personal consequences it will have – or what kind of personal consequences it will have – or does the Council of State think it should be introduced without having any impact on the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2058	Now we're looking at what's on the platform, and we've been thinking about this. We have a lot of things that lie as a foundation, a lot of numbers. I was a little bit into what we have to look at. So it's clear that it's definitely a foundation that lies there, once we've brought it into the platform. Then we have to look at each municipality, because they're different. It also has something to do with the size of the municipality. It also has to do with the offer available with regard to net new health care facilities being built and also the rehabilitation being carried out. But taking this in already now and looking at it means that we can also facilitate that idea, and as it looks, it's going to get a majority today in the Biggest. What must be the goal for all of us is to sit down and put the user in the center and see how we can make the last months and years the best possible for the individual. Then security is an important factor here.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2067	It is a good day for the elderly in Norway when SV is involved and ensures a majority for a cohabitation guarantee. But I want to ask the Council of State two very specific questions that are important for the SV in the process further. Number one: Will the trade unions and users be involved in creating these guidelines? It's important for SV. And number two: Do you want to make sure that caregivers always go first in line if there is a theoretical danger that someone will get worse services – if a married couple lives together in the room of the person who should have care services in any case, will the Council of State ensure that it is always the caregiver who goes first? I expect the answer to the other of course is yes, but I would like to have it fixed, and I would also like to hear the confirmation that the trade unions will be involved in the work in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2072	Just so it's clear: we include all those who are quite relevant in this work situation, and who have to do with the elderly and users – it's also defined in common practice and law, that's quite natural. I also think that the representative is aware that this is the case in the municipalities. As regards ensuring that no user in need suffers from this, all of this is covered by law — how this should be viewed. And once we've gained the experience from the state experiment as well and in view of the funding of care for the elderly, what's happening in the municipalities with the municipal trials is important. We will then consider how to incorporate the provisions of the bond guarantee into the national criteria, so that we run for the race, so that this hangs together.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2079	In the last period, the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party agreed that we need to get some national criteria in order to get a right to a health home, some medical criteria to be investigated, and be out in the municipalities to get a hearing on what could be a common multiple of criteria, just in order that there should be no difference between who got a right to a nursing home. The reason for this is that the elderly are getting sicker and sicker, and those entering Norwegian nursing homes are more complex. On average, the seven sufferers require large staff around them. As long as you don't want any investigation, either at cost or by what it will mean, do you think it would also have an impact on Norwegian nursing homes employees to have two in one room, even if not more than one of them would require care? Do you think this will go beyond the work situation for those who have complex patients in front of them?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2087	The President reminds us that all speeches should be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2092	I think relatives will be a resource. I think the interaction that we all want for the individual patient who is the main patient, if I can use that word, having a fellow player, the relative, around, actually gives an opportunity for those who work – who do a great job today – to help. I think so. We should never forget the aspect that the representative Bollestad was also in, that these are maybe couples, cohabitants, girlfriends who have been together a long life, and who know each other and each other's needs, this by holding hands, how you want the cushion to shake, what you need. These are also often relatives who have done a lot of the work in the home before coming to the hospital, who are just familiar with routines and know how the individual is doing. So I want to put myself in a positive position and think that this would rather be a resource that those who work in the hospital can use.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2099	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2106	As a local politician, for many years I have been relatively dismayed by the unsound debate about the need for sick homes, where national and central politicians travel around and almost throw sick homes at people in the election campaign, when the situation and needs of the municipalities are completely different. More and more people want to live at home, more and more people live at home, and more and more people live in nursing homes and residential and service centres with good luck, and it does not reflect the public change of words about care for the elderly. With this case, I feel that we're a little back on scratch, that the sick place for everyone is the only blessing, also for those who are healthy. I just want to remind the representatives of what a nursing home is today. A nursing home is the second highest step on a care staircase. It's like a mini hospital with quite basic care and medical treatment, where people like to live in the last few months of their life. 98 pst. Today the nursing homes have one room, 80 pst. of those living there are demented, and a large part – in my municipality almost half – of the sick homes are used for short-term stays, rehabilitation, investigation and relief for residents. So for many, it'll be as unnatural to insist on staying at a nursing home as insisting on staying in a hospital. It could be pretty similar. In the case of accommodation and service centres with good luck, there is something quite different. There are full apartments, with kitchen, living room, toilet and bathroom, and they are usually built also with couple apartments, so there it is quite natural for couples who want it, to move in. So this article is to nuance the debate, to show that nursing homes are not the place to stay for the life of a single room, and that it is the law of the majority in this case to take the sense and vote on the Workers' Party's loose proposal that this should be investigated before it is put into practice. For here you do not have an overview of the consequences of what is being adopted here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2115	Even if you are 95 years old and live in a nursing home, you can change a little bit of Norwegian policy. Today, we are dealing with the proposal from the Workers' Party for a joint-owner's guarantee in the care of the elderly, and I am very pleased that we have an impact on a national joint-owner's guarantee. The history of Gunvor in 95 years and Charles in 94 years, from the same city that I live in, Arendal, who both had poor health and wanted to live together for the last time of life, went around the country a little over a year ago. After several rounds they got to live together in the last month of Gunvor's life. After this case, a good number of municipalities have created their own joint-owner's guarantee in different variants. Other municipalities have not. There should be no coincidences as to whether couples who need care services are allowed to live together for the last time of their lives or not. That is why it is good that a Joint Committee wants to do something about this, so that we can put in place national guidelines. For Gunvor and Charles, there was a strenuous struggle to live together the last time of life, but with the inter-political consensus that is today, about a bond guarantee for the elderly who need care services, hopefully their struggle will make others avoid taking a similar fight. This probably doesn't apply to a lot of couples, but for those that apply, it's probably what matters most in the phase of life they're in. That is why I am pleased that the representative proposal from the Labour Party has contributed to a change in Norwegian policy on the elderly. Then there's a disagreement between the parties in the setting. Should healthy people be allowed to move into a nursing home if the partner is ill? Yeah, the government thinks so. I disagree that completely healthy people belong in a nursing home, and what will the government parties do with the healthy partner when the sick one dies? Should one then, when standing in the midst of a great grief, be thrown out of the nursing home – a nursing home to which you may have had a strong connection, with employees with whom you have a close relationship? Maybe one no longer has an apartment or house to move back to. Although the cohabitation guarantee is voluntary, how can one ensure that a healthy partner does not feel a moral pressure to move in with a sick partner who sincerely wants it? The government parties and the SV say with their proposal today that this has been facilitated by society – ergo it is quite natural for one to do so. My impression is that we still don't have enough nursing homes or nursing homes. Then it becomes strange to me that the government is now adding that healthy people are going to move into a nursing home. I would like to remind you that the Workers' Party in the setting wants it to be arranged so that a healthy partner can spend time with his sick spouse or partner and get an offer for accommodation if necessary. It's to take seriously the relationship that the couple have after living a long life together, but without healthy people living in a nursing home, while the elderly who are really sick are at risk of being rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2128	There is a lot I don't understand, but I can add another argument to that list today: I just don't understand the argument about how a healthy person who moves in with his partner or spouse at a nursing home can get sicker by it. I'm looking at the exact opposite. I look at it so that the relative of course has something to add to the person who is ill. That must be the way it is. I have much greater fear of the person who remains at home, in an excessive dwelling, with a long distance from his girlfriend, and cannot follow up on the contact as often as he likes. It is an argument that has not been made here today: the distance to the hospital. I wonder if the representative Moflag thinks more about his own municipality than about those who live in Finnmark – or for that matter in Andenes, who is the representative of the Workers' Party's home municipality, instead of Moss. There's a lot of distances. There's a question here, if he's going to spend half the day coming to a nursing home to visit his loved one, instead of being able to move in. We have to take those situations into account as well. Then I have to say that now I have been sitting in this room for six months and heard one proposal after another coming from the opposition, they are almost thrown over us without economic consequences being investigated – and they have been adopted, by a majority in the Chamber. Then, all of a sudden, to a proposal from the government parties, you have to draw up the argument that the economic consequences are not established. Furthermore, no further investigation has been carried out by the Workers' Party's proposal on a national cohabitation guarantee either.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2139	I'm very happy the district perspective now came up, because just what has happened when we in SV have traveled around, is that we meet people who want to be with the one they love, but who can be denied it by the state. I would first like to thank the representative Jacobsen for what I think was a very good speech, and that nuanced the debate. I just wonder if the nuanced debate was a little different than what she might have thought. The representative said that few would insist on staying in a hospital, just as few would insist on staying in a hospital. That's absolutely right. There are very few people who want to live in a nursing home. She also said that many elderly people live quite elsewhere. That's also quite right. In the past, we were also told that two thirds of those who move to a nursing home are lonely. In some of the debates that have been here today, it has been said that this is going to roll over to Norwegian health care, when we are probably talking about a dozen couples on a national basis. So the representative Jacobsen had a very good post, which really shows how strange this debate has become, where someone goes together to secure couples who live the very last months or years of their lives, the right to live it together, the right to love, even if they don't have a lot of money to fly or travel when they live in the districts, or the ability to take the big costs there. But there should also be a right in the cities. SV believes that there should be no coincidences that determine whether older people who love each other should be allowed to live together. There shall be a right at the end of life. If a refusal is made, the Council of State confirms that it is not due to the bond guarantee. It has been said quite unambiguously by the Council of State that no caregiver should be allowed to move because of this cohabitation guarantee. And when it's said in the Chamber of the Council of State, that's the way it is. This is normal parliamentary practice. If we don't get to take that problem when it comes. Then SV is involved in saying no to that. But it's like no one loses their care needs, and then the others, who are opposed to this proposal, must stop claiming it from the pulpit. I'll end by saying there's one thing SV is a little worried about, and it's that we can understand that it can be difficult in the very smallest spaces, especially if you need help with carrying tools and other things that can take place. It may be a challenge for some employees to do the job. That's why I'm very pleased that when we challenged the Council of State so clearly whether the trade unions will be included in the drafting of these guidelines, we got it, because in the few cases that will apply, it's important that the trade unions talk to. I will end by saying that I think it is a happy day for the elderly. We've now talked a little bit about people who love each other and get the opportunity to end their lives together. But I really want to talk about a slightly different aspect of it, and it's that I think that one of the most important things for people's self-esteem is to be allowed to choose the most important and closest things in life entirely, that no one should be allowed to decide who you love, and who you're going to live with. This proposal is not only a good proposal for love, it is also a good proposal for self-esteem, the self-respect of the elderly in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2152	I heard the representatives of the Workers' Party make comments and talk about throwing sick homes after people, and that you're too busy in nursing homes. I think that is definitely not the case. There will be challenges. We're going to have challenges on the sick home front in the future, but this is not about anything going on at the expense of those who need care and care. We have a very clear intention from the Stortinget that says clearly that you want people to be allowed to live on a single room, and that no one should be placed on a double room against their will. That's why volunteering is also important here. But I really want to use my last post to say that I'm very happy. This is something I've been working for too long. I think it is sad for the Workers' Party that they have made clear what they think about this, and for whom the guarantee of love should apply, namely only those who are both ill. I think we should have a love guarantee that means that even those who are healthy will have the opportunity if they, together with their spouse, believe that it is the best. That's what you add up to here. It's a very good decision that the majority of the Biggest is now going to make. That's why I hope that several of the parties who have signaled that they might be able to support the proposal will do so, so that we really ensure the bond guarantee that I know that people out there have experienced that they have talked about, and not the Workers' Party solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2163	First, I want to answer the representative, Grimstad, who wondered if you could get sicker from staying in a nursing home. I encourage the representative to talk to senior researcher Heidi Gautun about why healthy elderly people can get worse from staying in a nursing home. She explained this very well this morning on New Year's Eve. Then I want to make a comment on the post of the representative Wilkinson. Wilkinson talks about how important it is for the trade unions to be involved in this work, and I would like to remind the representative Wilkinson that both the trade union and the nurses' union this week have gone out and warned against the proposal that SV is now making for a majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2170	There are basically several things that should be addressed at the end of the debate. What many very easily jump over is the fact that the majority – 80 pst. – by those who live in a nursing home, is demented. It's a pretty heavy load for the relatives already. When the representative Grimstad made his contribution, I came to think of a close friend of the family who is in the 70s, who has a spouse who is thoroughly demented, and who he visits every day. He actually sighs at the fact that there is already a pressure to expect how much he must be in the hospital along with the dent, who does not recognize him. There's reason to think that such a pressure, that you're going to live with the dent, is going to increase. And I really want to express scepticism to the representative Bård Hoksrud's expectation that the relatives will be a staff of the nursing homes. If it's something that the relatives need, it's relief. They like to wear out, they've had their relatives at home for a long time. Finally, he or she gets a sick home place – and then you will certainly have to contribute the same amount afterwards. It is a burden and a requirement that one should be careful to express to the relative, who is usually the same age as the patient. Although the family member is healthy, it cannot be expected that the family member will make an effort to work in the community health sector. Yes, volunteering is good. Yes, it is important to contribute, and it does all of their good heart, but to make demands and have expectations about it – it is to demand too much. I'm afraid we're going to make a decision here today that many people will feel stressful, with a view to permanently moving into a nursing home. You may be required to get rid of the dwelling that the couple have had for many years, and the children require the dwelling to be sold. What do you do when the sick door, and the healthy relative is left in a 15 m 2 large hospital room – alone and without a separate dwelling?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2184	Just a brief case information. This is about this senior researcher, which I guess I heard today early on the NRK Radio. I heard no empirical behind this. I heard vision – and it's not strange, because there's no empirical on this. No one has researched this. I'm following knowledge-based experience and research, but I didn't hear that in this case. Just one briefing: the municipality of Moflag, which she knows well as the former rapporteur, has approx. 30 000 inhabitants and have a well-developed nursing home system – which I am sure Moflag takes some of the credit for, rightly, I believe – Solborg, Langhus, Finstadtunet. Kautokeino is approx. 9 000 km 2 large, Ski municipality is approx. 165 km 2. It says something about the need for relatives to move in. So it's not like there's a coercion in this, it's an freedom of choice. And then I have to say, in addition, when the representative Morland points out that there must not be a moral pressure that underlies this: I have never seen any danger in moral pressure.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2200	I should only have a short post. The centre party will vote in favour of the Labour Party's proposal subsidiaryly. But I want to say that I don't like the direction this debate has taken, especially from the Labour Party and especially when it comes to how we talk about people with dementia from this pulpit. Love does not stop with a dementia, and of course many may have enjoyed living together in a nursing home if the one has had a dementia, when they have lived together all their lives. The security that it gives, both for the one or the one who has a dementia, and the one who's a relative, we're not going to stand here and be judges over. We also need to have confidence that people know their own best, and respect it. What is our criticism of the proposal is whether this is a consequence, that we do not assign to the municipalities a task that is not paid, and that it will be able to harm others. At least I needed to say it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2211	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2227	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a change of line of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2236	I would like to thank the proposers for raising an important issue here. The good life – what is such a good life? Several authors have over time tried to define what a good life is, based on their own experience and other people's description of quality of life and well-being. Every year we read about competitions between countries about who has the happiest people, and which countries are best to live in. Gradually, prosperity has been raised to its own objective of health policy both internationally and nationally, although the World Health Organisation, OECD and the United Nations recommend including well-being and quality of life as complementary targets for development and growth. Here with us, the public health report and a national survey conducted by the Ministry of Health and Welfare, Good Life in Norway, have given us insight into the situation of the inhabitants of Norway, while pointing to a number of weaknesses. The report also provides a main recommendation on what can be done to ensure that comprehensive information on quality of life is included in the basis of health policy. It is these recommendations that are the starting point for the proposals in the matter that we are debating today. According to a letter from the Minister for Public Health, the main recommendations of the report are supported, and the work on this is already under way. The Minister also states that we need to develop better tools both to measure the quality of life and also to use the data we get. These data will be an important management tool to see if developments are progressing properly. I think it is good that the opposition has promoted the proposals that lie there. Then there are some proposals that have come up through the committee's discussion, which are part of the vote. I'm assuming that the other parties are going to explain their vision.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2251	Welfare has been raised to its own objective in health policy both internationally and in Norway. Today, Stortinget has dealt with several issues that show the link between quality of life, well-being and health. Good nutrition, good experiences around the meal, the opportunity to live with the one you love – I’m not going to take a new round of the previous debate, but it should be possible even when you need care – is about the highest level of quality of life. The third sustainability objective of the UN is to ensure good health and quality of life for all. All UN Member States are required not only to meet the sustainability objectives but also to report on them, and thus a better quality of life measurement system will be involved in the achievement of these objectives. Getting an overview of and knowledge of the quality of life of the population and doing so thoroughly, as we in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection point out, we in the Labour Party believe is of great value. The ability to make policy accurate depends on how much knowledge we have. Where I come from, old Nord-Trøndelag, who has gone out of time and become a Dream Team, we have a lot of knowledge of the population. For example, through the Health Survey in Nord-Trøndelag, we have: knowledge of cultural participation on individual constituencies. One of the things that the HUNT data, as we call it, has shown us, is that e.g. access to culture and good experiences is not evenly distributed. So, as politicians, it's been fun to be part of a North-Trunde Team cohesion, as when we found out that classical music was the big geographical areas that didn't have access to, and thus made a cultural festival to just fix this. We are pleased with this majority position, but at the same time we are promoting the minority proposal that we are also in, and thank you for the good treatment and goodwill of all parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2262	The representative of Ingvild Kjerkol has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2267	In the report referred to in the draft representative, ask whether we know how people in Norway actually do, whether gross domestic product and other economic indicators are enough. That's important information, but we can't set a similarity between high material wealth and a good life. It is also shown that more and more countries recognise this, that quality of life is an important complement to existing living conditions indicators, and that experienced quality of life can provide useful information for social planning aimed at facilitating good life. The Health Directorate, as mentioned, has already, and on behalf of the Ministry, worked out what is needed to ensure good information on the quality of life of the population. That was the background, as I understand it, for the proposal of the representative, to which the centre party and I are co-sponsored. I would like to pay tribute to the Green Party and the representative of Stoknes for addressing this proposal. It must be great to get a bunch of stuff behind most of the suggestions. I thought that was very good. For public health policy, this is a new gift, where we can get a broader perspective on what actually matters to people and their perception of health and how one does it. I have nothing more to add than that. We are also behind a proposal from the minority on a website with a holistic representation of the quality of life in Norway. As I see it, it's not the worst thing that could happen, that proposal didn't get multiples. The important thing is that the other proposals received multiple numbers — not least the first, to ask the government to follow up the main recommendations of the Health DG’s Good Life Report in Norway, so that it becomes our basis for health policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2276	First, I would like to thank the Greens for taking the initiative on a very important proposal. SV believes that the power of money takes too much space. Resources are important to fulfill other tasks to give us a good life, but it's not important in itself to have a lot of money. An important example of this is that we know that even though wealth up to a certain level gives a better life, having equal and equal societies is by far the most important thing. Therefore, it is so serious that the difference in power and wealth increases under the prevailing government. Joy is hard to measure, but I think it's important that we try – simply because it's a little bit about what goals we're going to have for our society. Is it that we have to own more, or is it that we need to feel better? SV means the last one. I'm glad we're here to secure a majority for, among others. to extend the measurements, to achieve integrated objectives in the management of health businesses, and to follow up the important report. Nevertheless, SV does not give a majority to proposal No. 1, to create a separate website and publish a report every two years. It is simply because we think the important thing about this knowledge is that it is used to change Norway, not that we spend a lot of money on new reports, new measurement systems and new websites. Therefore, instead, SV has a different proposal, and I am promoting this proposal, which we are currently alone on our own, that it should be reported in the State budgets, where we in the Stortinget are taking decisions for the future. This is where the information is needed – not on a website or in reports. We also participate and ensure a majority to ask the government to come back with measures to make this information more accessible. Then a website might be the right way to go, but I think there are much wiser ways to work, which makes that information come to those who actually need it to make wise choices. We are pleased with the proposal for a representative, and SV is pleased that we have proposals in place that make us less focused on the power of money and more on having a good life together.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2291	The representative Nicholas Wilkinson has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2296	It is a paradox that although Norway has been much richer measured in GDP since 1950, the population has not been much happier if we are to believe the researchers. It is important to be reminded that economic growth is an instrument and not an objective in itself. The goal of growth in the economy alone does not include many of the other things that make people happy. Economic growth can also mean conditions that make people more unhappy. Purchasing pressures, pollution, environmental damage with dangerous climate change, loss of species and important ecosystems and depletion of resources weaken future generations’ ability to live a good life. At the same time, in many cases, wider attention to the quality of life and the needs of the whole human being can provide more well-functioning societies, and thus a higher real value creation. The Christian People's Party made proposals in the UK in 2009 that Norway should try to measure quality of life. This has resulted in a mention of quality of life indicators in the national budget. In the last period, the Christian People's Party and the Green Party promoted new proposals on quality of life together, and we have made some progress. Quality of life is both personal and public responsibility. The size cannot decide that people will be happier. Politicians alone cannot give people the good life, but politicians can help to do more for the inhabitants if the main goal is quality of life than if the goal is only economic growth alone. I think it's good if quality of life is the main goal, because quality of life is largely about creating a safe, free and inclusive society where we have time for each other and are on our way to a sustainable future that gives future generations the same opportunities as today's people have. Such a main objective will give policy new perspectives. Therefore, I believe that it is important to have comprehensive information on quality of life, that it is a basis for the whole of health policy, and that the objectives of quality of life are integrated into health management to a greater extent than today. The Christian People's Party will first vote in favour of proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox On proposal No 1 fall, the Christian People's Party will vote subsidiaryly for proposal No. 2 and on proposal No 2 falls, the Christian People's Party will vote for the committee's recommendation, including point V.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2311	The representative, Mr Olaug V. Bollestad, then gave an explanation of vote on behalf of his party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2316	Is the President okay today?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2322	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2327	If we imagine a ladder, where ten is the best possible life and zero is the worst possible life, at what stage is the President personally experiencing being at the moment? The President shall not answer. But for me today is a good day here at work, so I'll say ten if the president asks me. The use of quality of life measurements is a theme that I, as a psychologist and consultant, have worked to get Norway to grips with and do something with over a period of approx. 13 years. I have previously tried to get it into the Statistical Central Bureau, twice earlier on the Stortinget, but then without any impact. But today it finally seems to be reality. That is why it is a good day – not only for me, of course, but also for the many who have worked hard to take this topic seriously in psychological and medical research, philosophy, economics and politics. For the findings from here are amazing and important. Questions like 'Are you happy?' were long regarded as unprofessional. It has been thought that what people answer to that type of survey is vision, not fact. But for the past 30 years, there has been a whole multidisciplinary science of measuring happiness and quality of life. This has been a key issue for the Green Party for a long time. Our vision is a warmer society in ecological balance. And now we can get the data base to start turning policies and instruments towards a warmer society, which actually gives people a good, healthy life, and less trace off in the direction of unnecessary resource consumption without impact on quality of life. In general, we already know a lot about how happy people are on average, but we have far too little nuanced knowledge of other aspects of quality of life in Norway, as it is perceived. We know, for example. too little about the experience of commitment and meaning, about mastering and autonomy in different population groups, and about how the quality of life of these groups develops over time. It has been particularly deficient in measuring subjective data, i.e. how people experience their lives over time. Now we're finally getting ahead of ourselves to put in place a complete measurement system for Norway. It was Mahatma Gandhi who in his time said: «A nation’s greatness is measured by how it treats its weakest members.» If we don't know anything about how our weakest fellow citizens feel, those who experience their life as most difficult, how else are we going to be able to design an ever better health and welfare policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2347	I must first say that it is always good to hear when someone burns and glows for a matter. It does good. You don't always have to agree, but it does good when someone wants something. I also believe that the representative Stoknes is one of these. I quickly understood when this proposal came to us, that here there was someone who knew what he was talking about, that this was a professional and an architect behind good thoughts. That's probably one of the reasons why this gets such a clear majority – so it promises well. We need good goals for quality of life, and that we can actually measure it as well. I agree that today we have neither good goals for quality of life nor goals for what gives the best possible quality of life for all. All new policies, irrespective of the sector, must be measured against the extent to which they promote or impede the individual's mastery and control of his or her own life. This will provide better policies and increase confidence in policy decisions. There has to be consistency between what people most experience is important for themselves and theirs, and what we measure and use as a basis for governance. There are examples of countries where there is economic growth, but when a person asks people or measures how they are doing, they say that the quality of life is falling. Therefore, we need to develop better tools to measure quality of life in different groups and how this changes over time. We also need to know how we can better use knowledge about quality of life when developing policies, including: by improving the State Investigation Instructions. I therefore propose to follow up the main recommendations in the Health DG's Good Life Report in Norway and believe that regular data collection across the population will be an important management tool to see if progress is moving in the right direction. Therefore, there is work to find concrete measurement tools to improve the measurement systems for quality of life and, in particular, to provide a better basis for the collection of quality of life data in Norway at national, regional and local level. The Institute for Public Health is directing the work, which is to be completed during the spring. In Mestre throughout his life — the government’s strategy for good mental health — we have said that the government will help to further develop data collections and analyses on the quality of life of the population at national and local level. The Ministry of Health and Welfare will assess how we can facilitate – systematic – county health studies and how quality of life can be included in them. I also want a broad review of this in the next public health report, coming in spring 2019 – not least how this can be better coordinated across different sectors. On this basis, I suggest that the government also clarify which agency should be responsible for coordinating the measurement system in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2360	The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2365	I take the floor for a brief explanation of vote. The Labour Party wants to vote in favour of the minority proposal we have tabled, proposal No 1, but substitutively for proposal No. 2, from SV. I have reason to believe that the Center Party will also do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2372	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2389	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a change of line of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2398	Let me first thank the Committee for the good cooperation in this matter. The Housing Entry Act is a law that relates to the relationship between an entrepreneur and a consumer on housing construction, and I am also pleased that the government has promoted – and that the Stortinge appears to be adopting today – rules that strengthen the position of consumers. It is good that we in Norway have a tradition that most people own housing themselves. That's a value we're dedicated to keeping. When the right came into the government offices in 2013, we saw that the start of the construction of new dwellings was too low, and that it was too slow to build a new dwelling. It has been – and still is – an important goal both for the Right and for the Government to be faster, simpler and cheaper to build homes, and the housing policy that has been pursued in the previous period and that has been pursued up to now, we now see the results. We have had the highest start-up of new dwellings since the 1980s. It helps to make it easier for people to buy their own home, and it helps to take care of our self-ownership democracy. For most of us, a new home is one of the biggest investments we make in life, and even if you buy a new home from a builder, there may still be something wrong with it that makes you have a claim. That's pretty practical. The dwelling can be less than what you've agreed, it can look different than what you've agreed, and it can also be delayed. Then it is important that we have a good code that ensures that consumer rights are protected if something turns out to be wrong. This case concerns proposals for amendments to the Housing Entry Act and the Disposal Act, precisely in order to improve consumer protection. The Government has made proposals for changes to the guarantee rules which ensure that consumers' claims for money against the contractor are secured in the event of a breach of contract, whether in the case of a defect or a delay. The changes have been promoted by the government in the light of the government’s strategy for the housing market and a NOU which also evaluated the guarantee rules. No changes are proposed in the length of the guarantee period, which shall remain for five years, nor are proposed changes in the amount of the guarantee. This is done because the rules in force today are well balanced between the consumer and the contractor. Some changes are made at the time of the guarantee, subject to reservations from the consumer and some changes relating to the consumer's sanctioning options in the event that the contractor misses the time limit for lodging a guarantee. Some changes in the law of disposal are also promoted, precisely to ensure that consumers who buy almost new housing from an entrepreneur also have equal protection. I am pleased that there is an overall committee that supports the legislative amendments that have come from the government. Finally, I intended to link a few comments to a proposal in the case that was promoted by the Workers' Party and SV. They propose, on their own, that consideration be given to establishing a compulsory form of guarantee in connection with the sale of new dwellings. From the Right we have said that there is no need to spend no time or resources at this time. Consumers still have good legislation, and they still have good opportunities to make use of the Consumer Council mediation mechanism if necessary. In addition, there are also very many builders who are subject to the authority of the Department of Housing. Nor will we be positive about instructing all builders and contractors to join such a class. But the opening to have such a title is equally full, so I hope that the industry, after they have now seen that there are some actors to whom this is no longer relevant, can sit down together and look at opportunities to safeguard consumer protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2415	For most people, investing in owner-occupied dwellings is the largest and most important investment made. Purchases of housing require a lot of money, and very much of the private debt in Norway is tied to just dwellings. The purpose of the Housing Entry Act is to provide security for the contracts concluded between the housing buyer/consumer and the contractor/supplier. Both parties are in the time between the conclusion of a contract and the handover of a dwelling depend on predictability. However, the home buyer is probably the most vulnerable. The review of the guarantee rules in the Housing Entry Act is therefore an important issue for those in the housing market. It is therefore good that the investigation on which the case is based, together with the opinions of a number of hearing bodies, should form part of a case that brings together a broad consensus on the main issues. That's what the government should aim to do in other matters as well. The guarantee rules of the Housing Entry Act provide security for the housing buyer, but there is also a cost side of the guarantees provided. In the hearing of the sample survey, the construction industry has shown that reduced warranty requirements could provide more reasonable housing. They may be entitled to do so, but this must be weighed against the fact that weaker warranty rules give greater risk to the buyer. The proposals under consideration include proposals to reduce the length of the guarantee period from five to two years and to increase, reduce or maintain the amount of the guarantee. In the investigation, there were differing views on this, where the dividing lines were largely between those representing the consumer side and those representing the supplier side. The majority concluded with the maintenance of today's rules. This is supported by the Department, and also by the Centre Party, together with the other members of the Committee, support this. The committee discusses in the investigation, inter alia: whether there is a need to replace the current provisions governing the lodging of a guarantee by an insurance scheme. Among other things, the Landsförbund of Norsk Boligbygelags is in favour of this, on the grounds that the current provisions on the provision of the guarantee bind up the contractor's capital. Others, however, such as the Association of Lawyers and the Association of Norwegian Real Estate Agents, believe that the current guarantee scheme is working satisfactorily and do not want to replace the rules with an insurance scheme. The Ministry and the Committee's suspension support the continuation of current arrangements. Some legislative changes are proposed. It concerns the current provisions on the right of cancellation, which are replaced by the right to withhold all remuneration from the contractor can demonstrate that a guarantee has been provided under the law. This also applies to changes in the law of disposal, after it is registered that some contractors are awaiting the conclusion of a sale contract until the construction works are completed, in order to avoid the requirement for a guarantee. A provision on the obligation to provide a guarantee is now introduced, in line with the assumptions of the Housing Entry Act. It's a pleasure for the Center Party. There is a minority proposal in the vote made by the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. It is a proposal by which the government asks to consider setting up a complaint form in connection with the sale of new dwellings, where all builders and contractors will be connected. Paragraph 64 of the Housing Entry Act provides for a dispute settlement based on an agreement between the contractors and the Consumer Council. Following the termination of the contract with the Housing Commissioner on the part of several entrepreneurs, the voluntary dispute resolution mechanism will be removed and several cases could have to be resolved through the ordinary judiciary. It's not a desired development. However, in the case of the Centre Party, an open-ended public term does not necessarily represent a good substitute for the current contractual arrangement. We would therefore encourage the parties to continue working with the dispute resolution mechanism under Section 64 of the Housing Entry Act and hopefully come back with proposals for solutions that will protect both the buyer and the seller in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2432	In the summer of 2015, the government presented an ambitious strategy for the housing market. The strategy will facilitate faster, simpler and cheaper housing, which will contribute to a more sustainable development of housing prices and debt. In the light of this, I am pleased that the Committee has joined the proposals for changes to the Housing Entry Act and the Disposal Act. The purchase of housing is a major and important investment for many consumers. The changes currently being addressed by the Storting will provide a simpler and more coherent regulatory framework. Moreover, the changes will strengthen the protection of consumers buying new dwellings. In a society with growing housing requirements, it is important to provide a good framework for the development and sale of dwellings. Consumers who buy dwellings that are under construction must be financially protected against the uncertainty that is likely to be associated with the construction project. The guarantee rules in the Housing Entry Act play a crucial role. The rules require the contractor to always have a bank or an insurance company in his back so that the consumer can be sure to meet his requirements if the contractor has problems. That being said, the contractor has to pay to provide a guarantee, and the guarantee costs that can get in the way of construction projects that actually have the right to life mean that we have to try to keep this at a reasonable level. It is therefore necessary to ensure that the guarantee scheme is not more expensive than is necessary. The changes in the laws that Stortinget has to deal with today are the final stone of a three-year effort to evaluate and adjust the guarantee rules. After two rounds of thorough assessments, in my view, we now get a legal regulation that provides strong consumer protection, without unnecessary cost. This will ensure the safety of the housing market while at the same time facilitating an increase in housing construction.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2441	The President has noticed that no one has promoted the minority proposal of the Workers' Party and the SV. Does anyone want to do that?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2446	Yes, I am promoting that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2451	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the proposal she referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2469	It is a unanimous committee that is presenting the vote on Prop. 44 S for 2017-2018, on changes in the state budget in 2018 under the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, Svalbard global seed vault and the need for new access tunnel. The seed vault of Svalbard was completed in 2008 and is an important project for Norway. The vault's seed bank contributes to ensuring the world's plant diversity for the future and also has a major international significance. The current proposal explains how global warming and increased rainfall have caused major damage to the current access tunnel to the vault. On behalf of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, Statsbyggen has developed a pilot project for the construction of new access tunnels. The project also includes a service building for moving emergency power and cooling units and other electrical equipment emitting heat, out of the tunnel and necessary securing and management systems. The Committee has recently been on the lookout in the seed vault, and we believe it is important to ensure the continued operation at a time of great concern for climate change. About 40 pst. Of all the seeds in the world's gene banks are deposited here. The work is anchored in a tripartite agreement with the Nordic genetic resource centre, NordGen, under the Nordic Council of Ministers, with CropTrust, the Global Fund, which aims to ensure important seed collections in the world's gene banks, and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. The proposal proposes a cost framework of 202,95 million. kr as at 1 July 2018 and the project is proposed funded over cap. 2445 State building, item 31 Launch of ordinary construction projects. The proposal involves an allocation of 100 million. kr to the project in 2018. The Committee is concerned that the project can be launched quickly to prevent further damage and has underlined the importance of good follow-up and cost control procedures being put in place from the start of the project. With this I would recommend the setting of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2482	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2500	Spring's farm business stands at the door. Agriculture shall comply with its requirement on 26 April. The state will make its offer on May 4. It will then be negotiated by 17 May, before the Economic and Social Committee and the European Parliament are due to discuss this year's agricultural policy by mid-June. On Tuesday the council sent a letter to the Stortinget to get this interpellation postponed after the spring's agricultural settlement was dealt with. It was an incomprehensible and quite pompous letter that came, among other things. was displayed on long habit. It is rather nice that when agricultural negotiations have not started, the Council of State should try to define a given period of time – whether it is from Easter or from winter holidays until negotiations begin – since it should not be allowed to discuss agricultural policy in the Stortinget. It is worth remembering that the day before agriculture presented its claim last year, dealing with the Stortinget agricultural report, and there were no limits on the Council of State's willingness to have any idea of what agricultural policy in Norway should look like in the future. One can read in the Nations that the Right Ingun Foss thinks it is unprofessional and a political game, and that Pollestad challenges the negotiating institute. It's just a premonition that from 1 April to the end of the agricultural negotiations, every right answer is that one challenges the negotiating institute. They whether -- I'm glad we get the interpellation debate, and that it's the Stortinge that decides when the Stortinge is going to debate matters, not the Council of State. The agricultural negotiations deal with the framework conditions for Norwegian food production. But it's also about what Norway is going to look like. Agricultural and rural policies are interlinked. Negotiations are also about preparedness. The smooth production of food is the most important element of our food preparation. Agricultural negotiations are also concerned with the environment and animal welfare. Since last year's declaration, as yet in transgression, it has our great choice. The Minister of Agriculture is the same. The political plurality has changed. The party that secures the plurality of last year's agricultural decisions, the Right, the Advance Party and the Left, no longer has a plurality in the Stortinget. Both in 2014 and 2017, changes were made when things came to Stortinget. It's an expression that the government hadn't followed up on the Storing. The size design of the agricultural policy through comments on the state budget, the processing of agricultural decisions and, not least, the processing of messages. In the spring of 2017, Stortinget will deal with agricultural notifications. The policy and the balances that were made then are in the innermost. 251 S for 2016-2017. The government and the trade unions can therefore create a relatively fresh and complete setting as a framework for the negotiations to take place. But will the government listen to the Storting in this round – or will it become more centralisation and liberalisation? There is no doubt that what is most remarkable in the agricultural negotiations is the question of the income of the farmer. That is the good reason, and the Storting expressed it this way in connection with the agricultural notification: ‘Investment is the main instrument to achieve more of the objectives of agriculture, such as recruitment, investment and increased Norwegian food production.’ The discussion of income is important. Income means something when the big choices are to be made: I'm going to take over the garden, think about the youth. I'm going to use the steepest soil in the country, think of it. I would rather lie down on the sofa after work, or I would like to continue using the afternoon to control the animal, thinking about the part-time farmer. These choices affect the food production we have in Norway. Income affects these options. Agricultural policy is a long-distance route. The results will take some time to show. The government treats agriculture as if it were 100 meters of sprint. Now we're starting to see the results of such a thinking. The blue policy is sporadic, the incomes of the farmer fall – contrary to the stated objective of the Storting to reduce the income gap to other groups. The number of the Budgetary Department is clear. I am sure that the Council of State has both creative methods of calculation and excuses for having done so, just as he had previously been happy to take the credit for income from good crops, exchange of TINEs and defeats in Stortinget. Norwegian agriculture and Norwegian farmers are better off than rhetoric, creative arithmetic and excuses. Norwegian farmers are on fire at a government that believes in them, which will increase Norwegian food production, and that is willing to deliver what is required. Norwegian farmers take most of the revenue from the market. Agricultural costs are influenced by the fact that we in Norway have one of the world's highest cost levels. Goods and services are expensive in Norway – for both farmers and others. Nor does it help agriculture that we currently have one of the world's most tax-free governments. It affects what it costs to produce the food. The size has seen some provisions for the objective of reducing the revenue gap. One is good productivity development. Agriculture has over time provided good productivity development, which has definitely been achieved. The size has also provided for a good market balance. This means that agriculture should be able to collect the agreed prices for its products. Size has not required a perfect market balance. And we also have to take into account the fact that the government has actively countered agriculture's ability to balance the market, they have refused to introduce new market balancing measures, generally led a market imbalance policy and facilitated increased imports. A serious fact is that the government in the Government Declaration has established an income target as a deviation from the Stortinget's income target for agriculture. The survey says that the income target should be to reduce the income gap between agriculture and other social groups. The government says it has income development in agriculture. The government's stated objectives are not income targets. The government might as well have called a "good day man, axe shaft" for a "good day man, axe shaft" in the same way as a chatter about calling a spade for a spade. The wording of the government doesn't mean much, because it has to be expected that the government will stick to the income target set by the Storting. And let me make this clear: when agriculture is among other groups of income, agriculture must have a growth in income that is better than other groups – in dollars – in order to reduce the income gap. Last year, the Centre Party, together with the Workers' Party, SV and the Christian People's Party, presented a common position on agricultural policy. This was the starting point for the processing of agricultural notifications. The four lots entered for chronically equal income development, compared to other groups. The four parties that were behind this last spring were then in minority in the Stortinget. After the option, these games represent a multiple of the Storting. It is a fact that the Minister of Agriculture must be aware of. I shall be careful to point out much about the arrangements of the year's agricultural policy. Agriculture is well able to clarify itself through the negotiations. The job of the big business is to draw up the framework for negotiations within, and the objectives to be pursued. In the last few figures, it has been agriculture that has fought in the negotiations to draw policy in the direction that the Storting has wanted. So let me finish my article by reminding the government and the Council of State that it is actually the government's job to implement the Stortinge policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2539	It could have been natural to start by getting something straight with the history that the representative Pollestad here is trying to do. But I won't. The government sticks to large numbers – we do that in this case, we do that in all other cases – and we assume that we should also adhere to the obligations we have to negotiate agricultural policy with the other parties, not the Storting. For this reason, there is a difference in substance between the fact that, last year, during the processing of the agricultural notification, I commented on the long-term objectives of Norwegian agriculture, including a big message for debate in the Stortinget, and what the interpellation is taking place here, simply to ask for a concrete clarification as to how one party intends to stick to the negotiations before the party has received the claim. It is rather sad that the leader of the Business Committee does not show a greater understanding of the party to the agreement in this, and what positions it requires from the State as well. It's with the agriculture we're going to negotiate, and it's the Storting that to the seventh and last determine the outcome of it, if any. But that's what happens after negotiations. When the Budgetary Department's figures are presented, it requires me, as the Council of State, who, under the main agreement, is responsible for negotiating with agriculture, it actually manages with the wisdom it can expect, even on the basis of agriculture's own interests. This means that I have not intended to contribute to this debate, in addition to establishing three things: Point one: The state negotiates with agriculture and will report to the Stortinget at a later date the outcome of the negotiations. Second, the market situation in agriculture is demanding. There are different objectives of agricultural policy. One of them is increased food production. The possibilities for doing so without a loss of income for farmers are now very limited. From 2015 to 2018, figures from the Budgetary Department, which in other words the state and the agricultural organisations are some of them, show that revenue has fallen by about 1.4 billion. kr. Point three: Agricultural income development depends on several facts. This means that when we, both the majority last year and the minority last year, e.g. had the ambition to increase the level of income of Norwegian farmers by increasing transfers, one achieved the opposite. It is not possible to guarantee that the outcome of the negotiations is in line with what is the starting point of the negotiations, on the basis that there are several important factors that the policy does not control. Those who are concerned about maintaining the contractual institute should allow the State — and in other words the Council of State — flexibility to conduct negotiations with agriculture before deciding in the Stortinget how one intends to organise it. I note that several parties and the majority in the Chamber have announced that they will not participate in this debate with that as a starting point. Maybe it's time for the Center Party to also think through its performance. At least I want to encourage the other parties to do it, if over time they're busy securing the contract institute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2556	I think the Council of State was wise not to go into the story story, because there was nothing wrong with it. It's a little touching when the government council from a party that has been formed, has fought against the negotiating institute, the contract institute, together with another party that hasn't exactly been very much for the contract institute, that's right, now is very concerned about this. The Council of State repeatedly ordered the negotiation of the article. Yes, it has to be negotiated - but the negotiations have not started. Those who followed the debate we had – I think it was April 25th – last year will have noticed that the Council of State does not just talk about the long lines. But what's interesting, and on which I haven't been given any clarification, is not a question that relates to the relationship between the state and the parties, but a question that relates to the relationship between the State and the government, because once the majority of the population has set a clear income target, a government platform that says something else, and that has a much less offensive formulation of what should be the current income target. Then it is interesting for Stortinget to get a clarification from the Council of State: Do the Council of State base what the Stortinget has said, or do the Council of State base the wording of the government platform? That's a pretty crucial question. And that's an important question for the Storting. I believe it is an important question to be informed before the negotiations begin, on the basis of the income targets of the Council of State. It is not that we have experienced in these years a government council that has more than willingly followed up its decisions. We've had a government council that in every conceivable way has tried to pull away from what the Storting has said. For this reason, this is a central clarification, which must be in place before the start of the agricultural negotiations and which, of course, does not rock the negotiating institute. The negotiating institute is as strong as its political support, and fortunately only the Right and the Progress Party are unclear or opposed to that arrangement. The other parties are faced with it, so we can certainly have a discussion about this, and I ask the Council of State to clarify his view of Stortinget's income target.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2569	I have explained what my position is on this before the negotiations begin, and I have not intended to comment on anything other than that. As I said in my previous post, we base the majority of the debates, but it's not that the agricultural policy has only one goal, he has several, and in the balance of all the objectives, the state and I believe in the demands of agriculture before I deliver a bid. To what extent the Storting will intervene in it, I left to Stortinget. There will be plenty of opportunity, because the agricultural agreement proposal will come to an end this year as well, but I have not intended to pre-process, regardless of how long the centre party had to ask for answers they have been told that I have not intended to give.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2574	For those of us who have been involved in this a lot of times, it's very clear that it's now being argued in a circle. Today we are told that discussing the premises and the main direction of the agricultural settlement in advance weakens the contract institute and destroys it. I have attended quite a number of debates in retrospect – when the outcome of the debate is available, and the Stortinget has been presented to it – which are based on about the exact same argument, that the negotiations have been carried out, and then it is «take it or leave it». Anyone who has opinions about the content of the agreement is not satisfied is told that the contract institute is then destroyed. So if you're going to follow the Council's reasoning today, it means that you can't say anything about this before or after, and at least not so that the Council of State can say clearly that he is obliged to do so. The limits set by the majority of population must be a minimum of what the Council of State has to do, for the figures show that agricultural incomes are falling. I want to refer to the leader of Hedmark Bondelag, who says that you compete and grow pale. And it's been the government's policy, that you're going to be big, during some kind of notion that you're going to need less state subsidies. But all the numbers show it's the opposite. It's bigger, the more dependent you become on grants, resulting in an uncontrolled debt growth and overproduction in some of the branches. It's not sustainable, it's not sustainable. I wonder if the Stortinget before each agricultural settlement must have a debate on this – we have a changing number of large-scales, we had a different number of large-scales in the previous period, now we have a new number of large-scales – so that we can clarify this in advance. Because the premises made by the Storting are extremely important, and I assume that the Council of State believes it is legitimate for the Storting to base some of the main principles and guidelines on what the objective of agriculture should be, and the direction of it, so that we get it clarified in advance. We know now — I read newspapers, and I follow what the Council of State says — that he speaks of both the one and the other in the development of agricultural policy, he wants to spend less money, for example, into an agricultural sector that he manages through his policies has made more dependent on subsidies. So there's no doubt that the Council of State wants to use its own space of action to pursue politics, but the government doesn't have a majority in the UK for that. There's a need for a different direction than what we've seen now. The size has been clear on some of those objectives, and I assume that the Council of State bases those assumptions. There are many elements in an agricultural settlement, everyone knows it, but one of the main pillars is that the income gap needs to be reduced, not increased. There are many other objectives as well. Then I will challenge the Storting to discuss how we should deal with this when it is such that there is a changing majority here, and the assumptions are not considered entirely clear – that then you might get a case up and discuss it in advance. We can't have the government saying that Stortinget can't discuss the content of the concrete agricultural settlement either in advance or afterwards. We, who are engaged in the contract institute, are just concerned that the government that is going to negotiate on behalf of the Stortinget, negotiate on the basis of the clear objectives and assumptions that a large number of people have set. Then you know what you have to deal with, and that's how it should be. So I encourage that we have to look at the system we have now, in order for this to become predictable.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2593	I think the representative Andersen has a significant point in his post. When can we discuss the assumptions and frameworks of an agricultural settlement without one being taken to income for one to break the principles of the negotiations in progress? That's an interesting question. Because it's never really appropriate, but at the same time it's really appropriate to do it when the Storting thinks it's too good. It's not about you wanting to put the contract system aside or break any principles in the negotiations, but what you're concerned about is that the leaders in the Storting are actually being followed up. What's the biggest challenge to the contract institute is a government and a government council that doesn't follow up on the leaders put in the Stortingen, because then a whole line breaks and tries to oversee what has been said by the Stortingen through various treatments on various issues related to agriculture. Now I'm not saying that the Council of State intends to do it – on the contrary. I expect the Council of State to follow up on the clear assumptions, both in terms of income targets and other, that have been set earlier. There is no doubt that there is a demanding situation in which the debt is going up and the revenue is going down. Differences between people in the industry are increasing. For the Labour Party, we are very concerned that we have an agricultural sector all over the country, that we have a differentiated structure of use, and not least that use with more marginal production opportunities also has the right to life and has a quality in Norwegian agricultural and food production. Then we are concerned that we also ensure that we have a system of subsidies that builds up below it, and that we actually get some of it out of the agricultural negotiations that are currently in progress. That we give these signals in advance of a settlement should just be missing. We think it's a good thing to do that, and we've said that very clearly, earlier, in Stortinget. I assume, of course, that it's being followed up. I'm not going to expect the Council of State to respond to this in detail, but I have a expectation that the Council of State and the Government will actually follow up what has been said in the Stortinge formally through decisions and leads in majority comments. That's what this interpellation is all about, and I think it's legitimately taking its place when it points out something that's been discussed in the Storting through a series of years: how the income development in agriculture should be. Once the majority of the population has come to a very clear conclusion, it is the government's responsibility to follow it up through the negotiations that come, even if it is initially demanding, without a user argument that a negotiator or parking the contract system in any way, because it does not actually. It may be a government that does not listen to the majority of the population, which is doing first and foremost.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2608	I think it is quite right that we take up this debate today, not least with the experience that you have with the way that the country has negotiated agriculture in recent years. There I would argue that they have not followed the will of the Storting, and it turned out in both 2014 and 2017 that there were changes in the agreements of Stortinget, precisely because Stortinget meant that the government did not follow the will of Stortingen. I think it's a minimum rule that when she negotiates, the government actually takes on the will of the Storting. It is claimed that agricultural incomes are difficult to raise this year because of overproduction. Overproduction means I'm a conscious act from today's government. They have double chicken limits, they have taken away all structural tools, at least most of them, they have increased milk quotas, and the farmers feel pressured to increase production more than what too many are the most rational. So let's hear that the farmers have to evaluate themselves, and that's right. But it's wrong to introduce an agricultural policy that stimulates more investment than makes sense for the majority. I don't mind that farmers are allowed to bet and make their own choices, but when it goes beyond the large majority and the goal of agricultural policy, one actually has to have some tools that make one at will. In recent years, income trends for the smaller ones have dabbed a lot. But in the most attractive areas, there is a struggle for both area and quotas, so it's the passive farmers that have spent the most money, not the active ones. This is something that has been put in place because of the way in which an agricultural policy has been governed in recent years. Then it must be right for the Storting to give a clear signal that we expect a now taking action that will allow farmers to lift themselves, that the farmers who want to invest in the local resources and use them for their use should have the opportunity to have a reasonable income and to operate a gardening so that they can be family people at the same time. There are too many farmers today who can't actually take care of their own family. They've got a work pressure and an chord that makes them unable to participate in the rest of society. It is not a viable and environmentally friendly way to develop Norwegian food production.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2617	The interpellant has raised an important question, namely whether the government intends to deal with the objectives set by the Stortinget. We heard here a government council that has tried to put this interpellation debate at risk, because then, when he was once forced to stand up in the Stortingen, to inform – something else had surprised me – that the government was going to deal with the policies of the majority of the population. Then the Council of State went over to attack the Central Party to ask the question whether the government had intended to follow the majority of the population, or how it had intended to achieve the objectives set by the Stortinget. It's hard to understand anything but that the council here is trying to get two messages. On the one hand, you try to say that you have to follow the majority of the population, to say that you don't want to go into a debate if you're actually going to follow the majority of the population, given that you're going into a debate. That is how the negotiations have not started. And as Andersen's representative pointed out, when will the Stortinge could debate the objectives of agriculture and agriculture? So, when is the Storting going to be able to say something about what income targets the government has to base when negotiating with this industry? It is no wonder that we are going to have a debate on the relationship between the Storing and the Government when the Council of State has so much trouble responding to what to base in future negotiations. The comparison can be drawn with the construction of a building and, to the extent – let us say – publish a tender. That's how the Storting sets out a framework for how the government is going to carry out such processes, and that's exactly what it's done here for agriculture. A framework has been established to reduce the income gap between agriculture and other groups in society, and it is therefore not possible for the Council of State to answer clearly that it is intended to follow up when negotiations are about to begin. The Prime Minister was in the Questionnaire yesterday and could not at least give such a clear signal that he would follow up on what the Stortinget has done. It surprises me that not part of the other parties have set up here and said that the government has to deal with what the Stortinget has decided. Among other things, it is amazing to see that the Christian People's Party has not yet wanted to communicate on how to see that the government will follow up what they themselves were adopting. So according to the Council of State, we should never be able to think anything about how the government will follow up the decisions that the Stortinget takes, and then it will be difficult to draw a different conclusion than that we should not be able to believe anything about how other industries' income growth is going to go. We're not talking about other employees either. We have a good deal of employees in the country, and if it happens that the Storting should not be able to say anything about the direction to be taken for pay levels, for example. in state companies or in state enterprises, when will the Storting feel anything about what development we are going to have on the income side, regardless of groups in this society and regardless of industries? It is quite appropriate that the interpellant raises this question, whether or not the government intends to base what the Storting has foreseen here for agriculture, as the Storting makes assumptions, for example. for government wage policy and for negotiations for ordinary employees, when we adopt our budgets. I'm going to end by saying that I would have hoped the Council of State could clarify – and not least that all the parties could clarify – if you actually meant what you were in for the last time, that the goal is to reduce the income gap between agriculture and other groups in society. It is up to the Council of State to decide when to enter and negotiate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2632	Yesterday was April 18. At that time, the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom answered questions about the income target. Today, 19 April, the Minister of Agriculture is trying to hide behind the formalities in order not to respond. But I listened in one of the posts to the Council of State that he said he would stick to the Stortinget's income target. I expect that we do not see any trace of the income formula on the Jeløya platform in the state's supply of agriculture, simply because there is no parliamentary plurality behind it. I must also promise the Council of State that, from 26 April to 16 May, when the negotiations are in progress, we will not take this kind of discussion in the Stortinget. We have respect for that. However, as a burning commitment to Norwegian agriculture and to food production and agriculture throughout the country, of course, a plurality and participation in the public word change. I believe that the Council of State has its back, even if he is sitting at the negotiating table. Then there's something about prehistory here. In 2014 it was the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Right and the Progress Party that transformed the government's proposal on agricultural policy. In 2017, it was supposed to be the opposition, but then Left got new best friends along the way, so it was Left, Right, and the Progress Party that secured multiples for another specified. It's an expression that what the government did was not in line with the statements the Stortinge had made. So the government is using agriculture as a tool or a hub to lead a non-multiple policy. That said Stortinget stopped in 2014, and that said Stortinget stopped in 2017. Those who are engaged and occupied by the negotiating institute in agriculture ask the Stortinget to let it go this year. I encourage you to read the farm message setting, stick to it and take the negotiations within the limits. It's going to be an exciting one. I just want to thank you for a good but reluctant debate on the income target. And let there be no doubt: the central party believes that the worst thing we can do with the negotiating institute is to use it to lead a policy that is not plural in Stortinget. It is the Stortinget that defines agricultural policy, and I feel that after the election there is a greater commitment and political will to invest in Norwegian food production than it was before the election. I would therefore like to congratulate the Council of State on the agricultural negotiations which will begin on 26 April.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2646	I have never encouraged the Stortinget to not actively debate what leads will apply to Norwegian agriculture. That's why I think there's a difference in the way the Labour Party and the Center Party act today, when the representative Aasland says we have to tolerate receiving a signal. The feedback is that we do that for all of us. But that's not the starting point for the interpolation. It is that I have been asked to clarify how we intend to adhere to the income target of the year's agricultural policy, which is now in an introductory phase. So it's not like the Storting has set one target for Norwegian agriculture and was done with it, and that's the income target. In fact, the country, which is the manager of agricultural policy in the contract negotiations, has to assess all the objectives that the Storting has seen for agriculture. We only do that in contract negotiations. Then we'll brief Stortinget. I wish that parts of the opposition also saw the value of it, saw the value of the parties to the agreement jointly producing both their requirements and their offerings without an internal weight of how the individual measurements should turn out. But it shows that some batches are more busy with input than the output. Because there was a large majority on Stortinget last year that would give Norwegian farmers income development, but we didn't control it, because we're controlling transfers based on the costs we think are coming, and the market situation we're in. This means that neither me nor the Stortinget at any time before next year's budget is clear, Norwegian farmers can guarantee income development. It is the paradoxical state that the negotiating party must take over, as the Storting must at some point take over and lay the basis for negotiations that actually take place between the parties in respect of the main agreement. Let me just add: this government is basing its policy on the main agreement. This means that negotiations are being conducted, and that means that my role and the role of my government, while one is in the initial phase, and while the negotiations are being conducted, is in line with the main agreement. It is quite important for the permanent possibility to make the state negotiable that the Stortinget – as long as one thinks one should stick to the main agreement – also does so.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2657	The debate on substance is closed. So 14 is going to be over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2673	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2689	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2701	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2710	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Åsmund Aukrust on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Green Party proposal No 2, from Ole André Myhrvold on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Storting to sue for the shared protection of the Østese watercourse where the upper part – the area from the Fitja valley to the high mountain – is supplemented by the protection plan for watercourses. Consequently, the lower part of the Baltic Sea watercourse is not affected by the protection plan for watercourses.»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2734	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to make proposals as soon as possible to the Storting for the protection of the entire Pacific Ocean.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2758	Behind it is the right, the right, the left, and the right. The centre party has announced support for the setting. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2778	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Ole André Myhrvold on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Per Espen Stoknes on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA There is a vote on proposal No. 3 by the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the introduction of costs related to nature intervention as a decisive criterion in assessing whether NorthConnect should be granted a concession for the development of a cable to Scotland. The environmental requirements of the regulation regimes providing the cable shall be lifted and the demand arising from the cable shall not lead to significant new natural interference in the area. It shall be taken into account that the total impact of natural interference, including those related to the development of new generation capacity made possible by the cable, is taken into account in the assessment of the concession request.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2802	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the processing of the NorthConnect concession application to be suspended until we have gained experience from the intergovernmental connections under construction.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to refuse the NorthConnect concession request for the construction of a new cable between Norway and the United Kingdom.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2833	Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2849	Four proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Sandra Borch on behalf of the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Green Party the proposals No 2 and 3, by Sandra Borch on behalf of the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment proposal No 4, by Sandra Borch on behalf of the Centre Party and the Greens There is a vote on proposal No. 4. from the Centre Party and the Environment Party of the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to follow the NVE’s recommendations to grant at least 200 million. additional costs to flood protection measures and progressed over a 10-year period compared to the appropriations in 2015.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2878	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to include the relationship with municipalities in the review of legislation on compensation, monitoring and development of state strategies in relation to preparedness and economic consequences of flooding, race and natural damage.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to step up its efforts to ensure the safety of county roads and highways in future state budgets.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2902	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to consider setting up a fund to provide financial support to county municipalities when infrastructure has been damaged as a result of flooding, escape, flooding or other natural damage.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2943	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Tellef Inge Mørland on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Tellef Inge Mørland on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 4, from Nicholas Wilkinson on behalf of the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No 5, from Nicholas Wilkinson on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 6, by Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit a 5-year municipal health promotion plan for mental health work in the municipalities, with earmarked funds.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2978	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide a comprehensive communication on mental health protection.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e2995	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asking the government to establish a low-threshold mental health service for children, young people and families in all municipalities. The measures can be implemented through the establishment of the family house and/or other easily accessible services. Services must be multi-disciplinary and cross-disciplinary in order to ensure good and complete services for children, young people and families.» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e3014	President! I voted wrong. I had to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e3019	And then we're going to fix it. Then the proposal by the Labour Party and the Socialist Left was rejected by 61 votes to 36. The proposals are then put to the vote. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that no abstinence is required for the treatment of children and young people in mental health protection.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen mental health protection and to ensure better access for children and young people to mental health care provided by qualified professionals through the establishment of preventive and outreach teams, to provide more holistic patient profiles, to expand the outpatient supply in outpatient paediatric and juvenile psychiatric clinics and to conduct open list trials at BUPs, and to provide an accessible 24-hour offer tailored to children and young people.’ [[BUP]] The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e3045	There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit a new action plan for the prevention of suicide and self-harm, including the prevention of suicides among patients admitted to or recently expelled from mental health protection. Professional environment, patient and family groups must be involved in the preparation and zero vision must be considered as an overall objective.’» The Right, the Progressive Party and the Left have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e3071	Behind the setting are the Working Party, Right, Advance Party and Left. The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e3092	Behind the setting are the Right, Advance Party, Left and Christian People's Party. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e3120	Behind the setting is the Workers' Party, the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. The Greens and Reds have announced support for the vote. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e3173	During the debate Kjersti Toppe has put forward two proposals on behalf of the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to introduce local management in all Norwegian hospitals.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that all healthcare companies have a local head of their hospitals responsible for the entire hospital’s operation, including staff/personal policy, quality and budget.’; The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e3204	Behind the setting are the Working Party, Right, Advance Party and Left. The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e3237	Behind the setting is the Workers' Party, the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. The Greens and Reds have announced support for the vote. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e3258	Four proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Tuva Moflag on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 3 and 4, from Kjersti Tops on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 4 from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to introduce grant schemes or other measures to ensure increased recruitment of nutrition physiologists to municipalities or cooperating municipalities.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that knowledge of nutrition for vulnerable health care groups is given a clear place in health professional training.’; The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e3291	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a comprehensive national strategy for good nutrition and nutrition for elderly people receiving hospital and home care services, with proposals for concrete, targeted actions.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to encourage voluntary organisations/initiatives to step up their work and actions in order for older people and single residents to have meals with them.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e3322	Behind the setting are the Right, Advance Party, Left and Christian People's Party. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e3340	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Tuva Moflag on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No 3, from Tuva Moflag on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No 5, from Tuva Moflag on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 6, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on proposal No. Six, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to facilitate the possibility for married couples or cohabitants who wish to do so to live together even when both or one of them have to move to an institution. In cases where one party is not entitled to care services, it is assumed that the offer will not require special additional resources or result in other caregivers losing their offer. The consequences of such a scheme must be investigated by the State and the municipalities in cooperation.’;» Christian People's Party and Red have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e3372	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to ensure that a consensual guarantee for healthy relatives is not introduced without the consequences and costs being determined.’ The Central Party, the Christian People's Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e3389	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that couples or consensual residents who want to do so can live together even when they grow old and have to move to an institution, provided that they are both dependent on care services.’ Red has announced support for the proposal. The centre party has notified subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e3408	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the cohabitation guarantee is a standard offer in all municipalities and not a voluntary scheme for municipalities to introduce.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the system of joint-owners’ guarantees is voluntary for the couples.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e3439	Behind the setting are the Right, Advance Party, Left and Socialist Left parties. The Green Party has announced its support for the vote. The Labour Party, the Center Party, the Christian People's Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e3459	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Ingvild Kjerkol on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No 2, from Nicholas Wilkinson on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to establish a website with a comprehensive production of quality of life in Norway and to ensure that a quality of life report is published every two years.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e3485	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to report on the state of quality of life in Norway as a whole, and for selected vulnerable groups, in the ordinary state budget services in the United Kingdom.’ Christian People's Party and Red have announced support for the proposal. The Workers' Party and the Centre have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e3541	Behind the setting are the Right, Advance Party, Socialist Left Party and Left. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced support for the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e3557	During the debate, Karin Andersen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to consider setting up a complaint form in connection with the sale of new dwellings, where all builders and contractors must be connected’. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e3631	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e3642	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e3733	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e3742	Case No. 15 and 16 are the second time legal proceedings and relate to Acts 48 and 49. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-19.ana.ud236e3772	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
