ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e93	The representative Bears Moxnes, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat. Two permit applications are available: from the Left-wing Group on the welfare leave of the representative Guri Melby from 12 June to 15 June of the Workers' Group on the Welfare Permit of the Representative Cecilie Myrseth on 13 and 14 June On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representatives, for Oslo Tina Shagufta Munir Kornmo and for the County of Trom Kari-Anne Opsal, are called to meet during the leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e131	Tina Shagufta Munir Kornmo is present and will take the seat. The representative of the Bears Moxnes will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e138	It's a proposal on behalf of myself and Audun Lysbakken, from SV, on a government statement on the agreement between the Norwegian and US defenses on the connection of US military sensors to Space Norway's satellites. This is what we would like to be dealt with under Section 39(c) of the Rules of Procedure, since the decision was taken on a lack of information base in Stortinget, and that it can be dealt with before the session is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e143	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e150	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today, and considers it to be adopted. The President will propose Kari Kjenaas Kjos. – Other proposals are not available, and Kari Kjønaas Kjos is considered unanimously elected president of the current meeting. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that case No. 2 to be dealt with before case No. 1st@item: inlistbox – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Furthermore, the President will inform you that today's meeting will continue beyond noon. 16.00 until the current map has been processed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e174	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e183	First of all, thank the proposals from the Christian People's Party for raising a very important issue, namely the need for the Stortinget to be involved in the government's work on a cross-sectoral strategy and action plan for gender equality for people with disabilities. In its reply to the Committee, the Council of State confirmed the appropriate involvement of Stortinget. The very concrete proposal in the case of the Christian People's Party relates to a desire to get a big message with proposals for measures for the developmental disabled in particular. The Committee has not had a hearing on the matter. We still know something about the organisations' attitude in the matter. Organisations such as the Joint Organisation for the Disabled, FFO, and the Association for the Disabled, NHF, are most concerned with ensuring their effective involvement and influence in the government's work on strategy and action plan, including permanent contact points with sectoral ministries. So far, they're not satisfied with the way they're involved, so far. Governments have responded to this in Document 15:1516 for 2017-2018 on 22 May this year. The Committee is divided into its assessment of the Council of State's replies. The majority have no further comments beyond the Council's response to this point. The minority has made proposals that underline the need to involve organisations more closely in the work on the strategy plan than has been the case until now. With regard to the need for the notification of gross domestic product, the NFU, is very clear that they want a separate notification of the situation of the developing population. The other organizations support them in it. However, the Council of State does not consider it appropriate, as she says in the letter of reply to the Committee. The Committee has been divided into a majority and a minority on this point as well. The majority refers to the Jeleia Declaration’s vision of a society in which everyone can participate and that a follow-up to the recommendations of the so-called Rights Committee, which relates to the whole life situation of people with developmental disabilities, will be ensured through the Strategy Plan for People with Disabilities. The minority do not agree with it and propose that a wholesale notification be submitted with proposals for measures to ensure that development-impaired persons have their human rights in line with those of others, as required by the United Nations Convention. The minority in the Committee, in addition to proposals for closer involvement of organisations in the preparation of the strategy plan and a separate monitoring report with measures for the development of the disabled, have also made 12 proposals setting out the themes to be addressed in such a roll-out notification. I use the opportunity to address the proposals that the Workers' Party is behind, and will justify them in a later article.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e196	The representative Lise Christoffersen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e201	Strengthening the rights of people with developmental disabilities is an important political task. That is why there has also been a thorough investigation and debate in the past. It is important to have this background when deciding on this matter today. On 3 October 2016, the Rights Committee delivered its investigation NOU 2016: 17, on the same line, to the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality. The report proposes eight promises for the realisation of fundamental rights for people with developmental disabilities. This NOU was a follow-up to the Report. St. 45 for 2012–2013, Freedom and Equivalence, which was dealt with in Stortinget in the autumn of 2013. In the introduction to the Storing Message we can read: ‘The time has come to review the living conditions of people with developmental disabilities and to assess how far we have come to implement the objectives of the responsibilities reform’. The purpose of the Communication was to assess the extent to which policy ambitions were implemented in practice for people with developmental disabilities. The Communication concluded that the objectives had not been achieved and that developments in some areas had gone in the wrong direction. Therefore, at the time the government asked Stortinget to set up a sample to propose measures. And the result of that is that we can read in the NOU on the same line. Now we've really come one step further. The government is following up the measures proposed in the NOU through a strategy plan, which will include both an overview of ongoing actions and a description of new concrete actions. Like the representative of Christoffersen, I want to praise the Christian People's Party for raising this issue. We fully agree with the intention, but the conclusion in the proposal for a representative will unfortunately achieve the opposite of what I am assuming is the Christian People's Party's wish, namely to speed up and intensify the work on improving the rights of those with disabilities. It is also difficult to understand the logic behind the proposals of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV in this case, which are really only concerned with detailing what a new message should contain – point by point. It is tempting to ask whether the same batches also want a new notification to be followed, where appropriate, by a new NOU. In that case, the round dance is complete. It's not a new big message we need right now. What we need is action. What we need are concrete measures. Therefore, the Storting should not today instruct the government to be less effective.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e223	The inclusion of people is a priority task for the government. This applies to all people, including people with developmental disabilities, covered by this proposal. This work is already in progress. As mentioned, the rights committee presented its investigation, on the same line, in the autumn of 2016. The government uses this as a guide for its further work. The Government has also decided to draw up a strategy plan, which will follow the recommendations made by the sample. This plan shall describe policy objectives, frameworks and priorities. In this work, the government will also provide an overview of current state measures and describe the measures that will be taken. The investigation was thorough and comprehensive. It generated 139 hearings, where very many were satisfied with the review that had been made. The minority in the Committee has tabled 14 proposals in this matter. The intention behind the proposals may not be disagreeable, but to ask the government to present a new big message, I am not sure is the right way to go. What's important to move on is simply to move on. If you compare the proposals of the minority with the eight promises in the investigation and look at what is announced in the letter of reply from the Council of State, we see that the content of these proposals is already being followed up by the government. The need for a new, or new, wholesale message is not present. Sick if a public investigation can be followed up by a big message, it is not necessary in all cases, and at least not in this case, where the work is already in progress. The desire to be involved in the work of the Strategy Plan has been heard. Finally, I have great faith when the Council of State says that she will properly inform the Storting about the work of creating this strategy plan. I look forward to that briefing and am delighted to see the strategy plan when it's done. I think it'll satisfy all the wishes we have here in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e238	I would also like to thank the proposers, Mr V. Bollestad and Mr Jørgen Bekkeword, from the Christian People's Party, for the proposal, in which they highlight the fundamental rights of people with developmental disabilities. The Central Party fully supports the proposal for an own deposit notification. It is clear from the minority proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox In particular, the government cannot support that proposal. If the government says that it is unnecessary to have a big message, it would have been natural for the government parties in this setting to tell specifically what the government parties in the hall want one to do in the work we are talking about here. The center party is concerned that we should try to prioritize these themes. It's discussed many times in the past, and it's been said very well, but what it says many times is that one has not been able to prioritize the economic resources needed to implement it. In the setting we have therefore been very clear that the close involvement of disabled people's organisations is quite natural, and that the people with development have the right to express their views and claim their rights in line with others. It is absolutely fundamental that this should be done in a way that is as equivalent as possible to that of those who are fully functionally healthy. Otherwise, we have clearly agreed to give priority to the right to work, health care, opportunities for those with developmental disabilities to take a second year at public schools, and to review the experience of the Vergemålsgesetz. The proposals that the Central Party is not included in the vote are – as others have been – proposals that are well intended. We wanted to give priority to the proposals we were making, but we do not want the others to be included, especially proposal No. 13, which pursue meaningful leisure activities. So the centre party will vote subsidiaryly for the proposals. 8-13, as well as for proposal No 14, which is the solved proposal of the Workers' Party, because it gives a whole. In the setting we have not expressed ourselves against those proposals, but our recommendation in the setting was an attempt to prioritize what we consider to be essential the inclusion of a big message.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e251	I want to take advantage of the opportunity to thank the Christian People's Party for a very good proposal. This is a very important matter. As a society, we have a responsibility to enable everyone to have equal opportunities and a good life. This work is particularly important to follow closely with respect to people with some form of developmental disability. This is a group of people who, to a special extent, may not always have the means to participate in political teams and associations. It's these that may have the most to contend with a system heavy Nav and other important social institutions. The suggestions we agree with, go through several important themes. I want to pay particular attention to two things, for the first thing that worked daily seemed to a person with a developmental disability. Whether it's school, VTA, ordinary workplace or day centre, it's one of the most important things for both well-being and development. Therefore, it is very important that we, as politicians, take good care that these institutions function as well as possible, and that they are accessible to all those who need it. The second thing I want to mention is universal design. This is a tabbed entry for equal access and equal opportunities. Here the municipalities have a lot of responsibility, but it is very important that the government and the Storting make clear and concrete demands, which at least SV believes must be the most universal design possible. This must be followed closely by the government, which is also taking place in the municipalities. In this case, there are many good suggestions about what we want the government to present in a new big message. Thereby it becomes a clear order with which this group of people, who are not represented in this room, can be well pleased. I would therefore recommend the proposals that SV is behind, and I would also like to inform you that we support the loose proposal from the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e266	The Christian People's Party welcomes the position of the Labour and Social Committee, where the majority promotes many good and important proposals, first and foremost the proposal. ‘The government is asked to provide a big message with proposals for measures to ensure that development-impaired persons have their human rights in line with those of others.’ The Christian People's Party is going to vote for all the proposals. We also support proposal No. 14, promoted by the Workers' Party as a loose proposal today. When, in the context of the proposal, we refer to the government's ongoing work on the strategy plan for equal opportunities for people with disabilities, it is precisely because we know that this is the way the government has seen it going to take further the work of the Committee on Rights. A growing notification of measures for the development of the disabled will only partially cover the population that the government’s strategy plan is intended to cover. Here there are different groups and different needs. Some measures and rights challenges are common; others are very different. The main point of the Christian People's Party is that we believe it will be positive and very important for the field that the Stortinget will have an overall review. The work on the rights of people with disabilities is not something that the Stortingen spends too much time on. It is sector-wide and often falls between chairs, and we talk about people that more than anyone else should have the attention of the Big One. There is a need for follow-up of NOU 2016: 17 On the same line. It is great that the government has started work on a sector-wide strategy for gender equality for people with disabilities. I think we all agree that a big message about the work of the developing population and the Storting should not stand in the way of or delay the government's work on equal opportunities for people with disabilities. More on the contrary, of course, an overall review in the UK should not prevent the government from promoting concrete proposals in a sector-by-sector manner. The size has dealt with a big message about people with developmental disabilities before. But 2013–2014 is beginning to be a while ago. Since then, the Committee on Rights has presented its report, which has been consulted by the NOU. All of this shows great challenges. Our job is not to give people with a developmental disability as a separate group their own rights and duties, but we have to raise and ensure that the rights are the same regardless of their function, and that everyone has to have the same real rights. The Christian People's Party believes it is time for an overall review of the situation and rights of the developing population. And we hope and believe that the government will be interested in listening to good recordings and signals from the Storting when the Storing Message is processed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e282	Strengthening the fundamental rights of people with a developmental disability is a very central task for the government and for me. It is a very rewarding work, also because this is an area where there has clearly been a need to review and where it is clearly essential that we make some political priorities. This applies in all sectors. The Ministry of Children and Gender Equality has briefed the relevant sectoral ministry on the sample’s proposals. The committee has looked at the rights of people with disabilities and made its decision. We have asked the Ministry to report on how they follow up on the committee's proposals, and several of the departments responsible have already started work on the basis of which, in whole or in part, the founding NOU. That is why the government wanted to get moving rapidly in the follow-up to the good investigation we now have on the table, and so we wanted a strategy plan consisting of only two things: a strategy section describing policy objectives, policy frameworks and policy priorities on how to set up state activities to achieve equality between people with disabilities; and part two is an action plan section that represents concrete actions to contribute to increasing equality, both existing actions in all sectors and new actions to contribute to gender equality. The aim of this strategy plan is to ensure a more coordinated and holistic approach to gender equality for people with disabilities. We are working well with the dialogue with disabled people's organisations. We have a State Secretary Committee where all relevant sectoral departments are represented, and it has been set up to assist the organisations of the disabled. I am of the opinion that it is important that we work quickly with this work, and I had seen that we should complete the strategy plan. A big message will delay the work a great deal, because we have to deal with some of the leadership and framework for the work that will make this work go out on time now, rather than the fast schedule we had in mind. But I take note of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e295	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e301	I have a question that concerns the last Council of State saying that the work will be delayed. Is there anything wrong with the strategy plan, with proposals for concrete actions, being a big deal and being presented to the Storting before it is finally beaten? If there's nothing wrong with that, why would it lead to a delay to involve the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e306	There's nothing wrong with that, but as the experienced representative Lise Christoffersen knows, there are some leads and frameworks for the work on a big message that delays the process very much. These include: related to the investigation manual and how all departments are involved. There are a number of frameworks and leads for a major effort that will make it run out in time. I do not see that there is anything wrong with having a big message, but then I have to make the Stortinget aware that it will delay the process a lot. That is also why the government was concerned that we should quickly put these measures into practice through the Strategy Plan, with overall objectives and concrete measures, so that we can do something about the urgent need, namely to put in place measures that will give us more equal rights for people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e311	Thanks for the answer. I wonder if the delays the Council of State is thinking about also have something to do with the fact that the requirements for a roll-out call make it necessary to involve those concerned more strongly than is the case with a strategy and action plan. It seems that it has become a license plate for the government to keep organisations at arm's length in matters that are important to them, as well as in this case. Does the Council not see that there will be better political decisions in matters marked by transparency and participation?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e318	It absolutely does not lead to correctness, what Christoffersen's representative says here. The organisations of disabled people are very involved in this work. This has nothing to do with delays in a cancellation message. They would of course also have been included in the work on a big message. What this is about is that we want to have effective progress. That's why we have this State Secretary's Committee, where the organisations of the disabled are involved. My office has regular meeting points with the organisations – they will also have them in the future – and I look forward to a working meeting on Thursday morning with the organisations of disabled people where we will sit together in the ministry and discuss how we can best work together on measures that will strengthen the rights of disabled people.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e325	There are many fine words, and ‘strategic plan’ is one of them. After all, a democratic strategy is based on a common sense of reality, and it is also a fact that must be based on a big message. And a plan is also something that has to be part of a big message. So I don't understand what would be the problem for the government by submitting a big message. The Council of State says that this involves delays. Now it is clear that it has nothing to do with the involvement of those organisations that have interests in the matter, so then my first question is: Why are there delays? The main question is: What are the realities of the opposition proposals now, the proposals No. 1-14, is there a conflict with what the government is working on in its so-called strategy plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e332	Of course, I would like to include all the proposals we are working on, in the strategy and in the action plan, and I would like to assess all the 14 proposals that are now on the table. I look forward to submitting a big message. I'm glad that the Storting wants to get involved in this work. The only thing I'm concerned about is that with the Storting decision today, this work will be delayed, because as the responsible State Council, I have to deal with a number of instructions, guides and frameworks for a big message, which had been avoided by an action plan. This government is fully committed to implementation. We're dedicated to making changes that matter to people, and in particular something that matters to the rights of those with developmental disabilities. That's why the government wants to put forward a strategy plan, so we'll be quick to make these changes. Now, Lundtigen has to take responsibility for delaying this, because we have to deal with the leadership of a process related to a wholesale message.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e341	As the Council of State now says, we must have a very strong expectation that there will be very strong measures in the budget paper for the autumn, because there is nothing to prevent the government from making good proposals in budgetary documents or in legislative proposals to the Grand Duchy as quickly as possible. So my question to the council is whether she's going to do it. I don't think there's going to be a majority on the Storting that agrees with such good proposals that the government then comes along with. The second issue is that in 2016 there was a national oversight of these services, which exposed massive crimes. What does the Council of State think about ensuring that such offences no longer occur in the services, whether they are in state activity or in municipal activities?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e348	I take note that there seems to be a large majority for a big message, and then I come with that big message, and it takes the time it takes, even if I'm going to work as quickly as possible. Of course, I think the offences are very serious, and we have to make sure that they do not happen again. That is why I am committed to taking action that works, which guarantees the rights of those with disabilities, as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e355	I think it is very nice that the government has now started work on a strategy plan, which is to be followed up by an action plan to secure people with disabilities with greater rights. There is nothing wrong with the fact that the government can also come to the Stortinget by sector with proposals, despite the fact that we are asking for a big message. But when, among other things, the Councils of State If the investigation section is pushing ahead with what she needs to deal with, then the investigation section is also a matter for the government — and uses — when working with either the strategy plan or the action plan itself. So I can't understand that it should be an argument that delays this process very much.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e362	The investigation manual applies to some documents and processes that the government produces and that we also deliver to Stortinget. An action plan and a strategy plan, to which the government wants to add, mean that there is no need to deal with part of the leadership of processes and investigations that messages and propositions require. The government – as the representative Bekkewold knows – is committed to delivering as quickly as possible. I can't hide from Stortinget that a staging message takes much longer. I'm glad to be able to do that. I want to include all the measures we are now working on in the Strategy Plan and in the Action Plan, in such a message, and it is nice that the Storting wants to get involved. It's important. I have also spoken to the Christian People's Party that I came to inform you that it was possible to involve Stortinget in the autumn budget, but now we are doing so through a big message.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e369	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e377	I know NFU, NHF and FFO as fairly impatient organisations, but they want a big message, because they see the importance of good anchoring, not least here in Stortinget, of the national policy to lead the municipal sector, which sits on most of the instruments in terms of what we have here as a topic. Thanks to the representatives Geir Jørgen Bekkewold and Olaug V. Bollestad for a good proposal, which makes me think back to the spring of 2011 when I was the case rapporteur for a similar case. The representatives of Borghild Tenden and Trine Skei Grande from the Left had suggested setting up a public body to review the responsibilities reform. An overall health and care committee was behind the vote. All parties saw that developments had gone in the wrong direction, and that something had to be done to get this policy area back on track, in line with national policy objectives. As early as 2007, the Social and Health Directorate – in the report ‘We want to, but are we doing it?’ – showed that the living conditions of people with developmental disabilities developed in the light of the objectives of Stortinget. And in 2013, Norway ratified the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. As stated by Karin Andersen here: In 2016, through national supervision of services for people with developmental disabilities, the Health Authority revealed deviations from the law in 45 out of 57 supervision. We can also go back in history and look at both children's homes, relief homes and national supervision of the use of coercion and power, etc. I guess no parties want this situation. We also have the critical criticism of the Vergemålsreform by the National Audit Office. A General Audit and Constitutional Committee supports the State Description of the National Audit Office. I was also the case rapporteur for a matter concerning that children should not have to stay in a nursing home. I will admit that before I became the case rapporteur, I was hardly aware that this was a problem issue, but it was. If not many, it was very important that we make the decisions we made, and they were unanimous. And in the case of dwellings, it is important to remember what is stated in the UN Convention: ‘that people with disabilities have the opportunity to choose their place of residence and where and with whom they are to live, in line with others, and may not live in a particular form of residence’;» We have a lot to deal with, and then I wish there had been greater consensus in the Storting today than it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e397	There's a long way to go about equality for people with a developmental disability, and the patience is obviously great in the government, because there's not much going on. In some areas, very negative things come from the government. The government has, for example: tried to move permanently organised work to the municipalities and take development-impaired people out of state labour market policy. It is direct discrimination. I agree with the former State Council of the Right, Victor Norman. If people with disabilities are to be treated equally, they must be part of the government labour market policy, and I think that is the majority in the United Kingdom. In the case of housing, the representative Hagebakken mentioned it. Yes, it is true that even if people with disabilities have the right to decide where they want to live, we still see that they are placed in large communities that look like institutions, and that municipalities choose to move them, against their will, from places where they may have lived for very many years and have connections. They get short rental contracts, so the municipalities have the opportunity to move them quickly. I'm in charge of the Municipal and Administrative Committee. We have discussed this also in connection with new municipal law, when the municipalities are now to be given internal control responsibility for more. SV has warned against weakening the rights of, for example, specific legislation. people with developmental disabilities, because we see that there are actual offences in many municipalities. Therefore, these rights need to be strengthened. There is a need for a comprehensive review in several areas, but there is nothing to help the government strengthen this policy in different areas of the budget. If they now choose not to do that, but they owe it for a big message to come, yes, then there's a choice the government has made, and it's a real downpriority. And they've been doing that for years. There's a lot of things in this area that really need a real boost. I'll mention the last one, and that's the guardian system. The Vertender Scheme has been poor. There has been a new Vergemålslaw, but it is very long over until the Vergemålssystem works well enough for people with developmental disabilities. I know that in the budget, the defence system was strengthened. There is a need for further strengthening and review of the system, so that we are sure that it works well enough for those people who need it. There, the government has to report back in the budgetary documents in a proper manner, so that it is possible to follow developments.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e408	SV will support all the proposals in this matter. I am particularly pleased with the solution of the proposal that is being promoted on monitoring practices in municipalities, the provision of SFO services by municipalities and the law that may apply to them. The proposal also provides for very specific measures. Under the Training Act, municipalities have the opportunity to claim payment from parents who use school-time arrangements for their children. Municipalities are required to have a school leave scheme for students up to the fourth year of age. Children with disabilities may depend on practical assistance and post-school supervision even after the fourth year of age. Before we received the school leisure scheme, such assistance and supervision were provided for in the Social Services Act – what is now the Health and Care Services Act. Children are generally exempt from self-payment for care services. Parents of children with disabilities have a care burden that is greater than most parents have. When, in addition to some municipalities, they have to pay around NOK 3000 per month for the necessary supervision for their children, the municipalities place a heavy burden on them. During schooling, parents of a child with disabilities may have to pay more than NOK 200000 for post-school supervision than parents of children with no disabilities. The policy of the SV is based on the idea of balancing differences and supporting them among those most in need. It is wrong to charge them extra with the need for supervision and assistance. In the policy for people with disabilities, it is common to distinguish between disability and disability. Disability is often not so much to do with, but the inhibition of disability for the person and family is a matter of community design, organisation and assistance. Article 23(3) of the Children’s Convention states that for children with special needs due to disability, such assistance shall be provided free of charge whenever possible. Not requiring an excess of the offer before and after schooling after the 4th year of age is possible for Norway and it is possible for municipalities. SV supports the proposal to monitor current practice and expects the government to find a solution in the preparation of the notification that can eliminate the unfair practice of self-payment for school leisure after the 4th year of age for children with special needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e419	For the Workers' Party, it is important to listen to those who wear the shoe. When the organisations of disabled people give us clear feedback, we believe that we should take it seriously. Under our government, we had e.g. an action plan for a universally designed society by 2025. That objective has been removed by today's government. Time's running out. I'm sorry about the organizations. We regret that too. Nor have we been given a majority to set a new goal for an accessible society by 2025 and a universal society by 2030. So now we're going to have to make another strategy plan. It is positive, but the organisations are not satisfied with the way they are involved, and one of our proposals takes it seriously, as I said. The Christian People's Party has profitably promoted proposals for its own announcement of enlargement in particular in the case of those with developmental disabilities. Government says no, organizations say yes. The Workers' Party then chooses to listen to the organisations and therefore supports the proposal of the Christian People's Party. In fact, the representative, Bekkewold, gave a very good tip to the Council of State: Keep working on the strategy and action plan – it also applies to more than the less developed ones – and then delivered the big message when it is finished. Then we have said something about what we think such a big message should mention. It is based essentially on the eight freedoms of the Committee of Rights in order to realise fundamental rights for persons with a developmental disability, but also includes some other aspects, such as leisure activities, life-viewing, high-ranking schools, guardianships and school leisure arrangements after 4th grade. The proposals are really about seeing the whole human being. I would particularly like to highlight one of the proposals, proposal No. 4, which is especially important. The government has invited you to do some work for an inclusive working life. It must also apply to people with developmental disabilities, but this is not the case today. For those with developmental disabilities, such as for everyone else, education is essential. We are promoting proposals for organised vocational training. NIFU has shown in a new report that the apprenticeship system is good for these students, but very few people with developmental disabilities are receiving such offers today, although this is a student of rights. There are some good exceptions – Eastfold and Westfold are highlighted. The key to success is predictable payment schemes, company training and a training office that makes professional plans, adjusted according to individual performance. But then the next step. Research shows that eight out of ten people with a developmental disability are out of work, although they both want to and can. The alternative is municipal day centres, but many do not have that offer either. It's unsustainable. Depressed people deserve to be taken seriously by the Storting. That is why we support the proposal by the Christian People's Party on the notification of big business. That is why we have tabled a number of proposals to ensure the right of persons with development disabilities to free and independent lives. We believe it is too unclear what the government and the majority of the committee really think should be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e434	The rights committee – in a 2016 NOU – concluded that people with developmental disabilities have a situation that is not in line with human rights obligations and fundamental rights. The NOU was actually quite serious. He concluded that people with developmental disabilities are discriminated against in a range of social areas, both through direct discrimination and through lack of adaptation and organisation. He concluded that developmental barriers were subject to coercive treatment, without necessary or factual justification. He concluded that evolutionary elephants do not receive training of the same quality as other elephants, and they are not included in the normal sphere. He concluded that developmental barriers do not have the same access to defence-related health services as others, and only 25 pst. of those with developmental disabilities have a job. It is this hindrance that is the starting point for the well-founded representative proposal from the Christian People's Party, and the need for a big message. I think it is very special to listen to the debate here on why this field does not need a big message, that we should make a quick fix here and have a strategy that should not be anchored in Stortinget. I hear the Council of State say that she is pleased that the Storting will ‘involve itself’. This is a very important matter, and it is the Storting that adopts the policy. How can a person develop a strategy with policy objectives and action plans without knowing what is the will of the Stortinge, and which can then be found in a big message? A strategy does not need to deliver to Storting. A strategy becomes government's strategy, which they will then create, regardless of what the Storting's will is in this hugely important and comprehensive field. I hear government party representatives say that they like to read the strategy. Yes, but the point is that it is we who have to design this strategy, and then the government has to do the job. There is a need to lay down this policy, and I think it is a pity if this government is to be able to put forward a strategy on a case-by-case basis without taking into account the political will of the Grand Duchy. It's not going to be a good strategy if you don't have a bunch of stuff in your back and you get the good decisions. Then representatives from the government party also say that one believes it will be good. Yes, but we should not believe, we should know what this big message – and the next strategy and action plan – will cover. There are many things you can discuss in this room, but that this field needs a big message, is at least safe.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e445	Just a few comments on things that have been said: The representative Sweetheart underlined the need for us to move on. We also believe that there is a need, but it's actually possible to move on by involving the Storting. As the representative Toppe said, representatives of the position are pleased to see the strategy plan when it is finished. For our part, we like to go in before that, especially because the organisations are not satisfied with the way they are involved. The organisations will also have a new chance via Stortinget. Now, in her letter to the Committee, the Council of State has said that she will ensure that the Storting is properly involved in the work on the strategy plan. It would have been interesting to hear if the Council of State would elaborate on what she means by ‘appropriate way’. When is the Council of State going to involve Stortinget, and how? When this government joined, the Prime Minister actually said that now there were going to be other balls in the Stortinget, now the Stortinget would get a lot more to say than when the red-green government crashed. But it looks like the opposition has to take care of it itself, so it's nice if the council can say how she's going to involve the Storting. I also think it would have been nice if the Council of State could respond to whether she will follow up the organisations' demands for permanent contact points with the sectoral departments. Or is it that the Council of State believes that the round table to be held in three days’ time is sufficient? At least the organisations do not think so. Then I have one more thing that I want to comment on, and that's what the majority of the committee refers to in the vote on the rights attaching of BPA as an important field for equivalency and participation. In the magazine Samfunn for All, no. 2 2018, from NFU, figures from the Handicap Association show that prior to the rights fixation the number was 83 p.m. that they could choose assistants and decide what, when, where and how. After the rating ceremony, only 49 pst says. Same thing. I also wonder whether the Council of State could elaborate on whether this concerns her, and what she will do in that case to ensure that that right fixation will be real. Then more have been concerned with the need for a new structure. There was a crushing report from the National Audit Office that Stortinget has just dealt with, and it could also be exciting to hear what the Council of State intends to do with it as the responsible coordinating council in the field. After all, it was the new law on defence that was necessary for us to ratify the UN Convention in its time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e460	I think I have to remind the Council of State – and this applies to all the Councils – that it is not as easy for everyone to get their opinion known. Not everyone has strong financial interests behind them, and can point to the state budget and say, "Look, I'm going in plus, bet on me!" There are some areas that require political will, which require clear political choices to be made, rather than counting money, and this is one of those areas. I can't see any great commitment from the government. I see that the state councils here are more interested in their mobile phone than in following up on the debate. There are large, heavy investigations and documents from public investigations, from control and supervisory authorities and from the National Audit Office that mean that we have an infinite number of areas that need to be changed if we are to carry out the reform that many years ago was called the ‘Reform of Responsibilities’. In the beginning, you were able to stick to the principles. And then it went out. That's why we got the NOU that showed that it had slipped out, and now we're waiting for the follow-up. For example: user-led personal assistant, SV has made proposals to do so in the context of the case of the local economy, which will be dealt with tomorrow, in order to regulate the scheme, so that there will be no difference between municipalities, and to extend the scheme, so that more people can do so. We also ask the government to start work to move the system from health and care services to public health. This is absolutely necessary, because it is a tool for more than those with a developmental disability, but it is also a good tool for them. Finally, I would like to thank the representative Lise Christoffersen, who dealt with this with higher education and the apprenticeship system. It works very well where it has been put into use, and it allows students with a developmental disability to complete a training course and complete the training. It is extremely important that we get it done, and that the government also realizes that we need to increase the investment in permanent work, both in our own businesses and in ordinary working life, so that more people can get a job.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e471	I took the floor because the representative Toppe and several others in this case have spent speaking time trying to spread the impression that the positioning parties supposedly believe that this field is not of such importance that it needs a big message, that we believe that the Storting should not be involved in this work on a general basis. That's wrong. We believe so, but Stortinget dealt with a big message about this autumn 2013. Then we got a NOU in autumn 2016, which was a follow-up to that big message, and now the government is actually following up – point by point – the proposals that came in the NOU, with a strategy plan. And if we read the proposals from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV in this case, they really only want to list that one believes that one of the eight points that came in the NOU that was delivered in the autumn of 2016 should be taken into account. That's when we point out that we now seem to be in a bit of an unfortunate dance, where we deliver groceries messages and NOUs that follow up groceries messages, and now there's a new staging message to follow up each of the points in the NOU. And then I ask the question whether there will be a new claim after that that the new Storing Message will also be followed up by a NOU. Yes, we believe that the Stortinget should be involved in the work, but now is the time for action. At least we want that. It has been raised beyond any doubt that a new big message will now delay this work, and the majority, who are taking care of it today, must be aware of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e480	I take the word to remind you of what is the starting point for us to discuss this matter here today. It's that the organizations in this area don't notice any of the world's things by the so-called power of action of the government. This shows that there have been processes with both messages and NOUs, and that the government is doing well. But the organizations themselves say they are not involved by the government, and they do not see any action. Therefore they have asked the Stortinget to take action and now order a commission from the government, because you cannot sit and wait for the government to be diligent in the work. The answer from the government council to the organisations is that when they get their will fulfilled, by the Storting asking for it to be taken, she will put everything on hold. Everything she's been working on, everything she's planned in the area, is now going to stop completely because she's going to work on a crash message. Excuse me, President, but this is not how we can deal with the organizations in such an important field. There is nothing to prevent the Council of State from making proposals for the Storting or making budget proposals, if it is such that a large-scale effort is actually planned in this area. If, against assumption, there are no proposals from the Council of State, or in the budget now, then it is only because the Council of State has not been implemented by the government or because it is simply not given priority. So you can't sit here and say that because you're dealing with a big message, you don't have to do any of the world's things in this area. I allow myself to say that I think it is very arrogant to the organisations that have now worked to get the Storting to grips.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e489	I look forward to meeting the organizations on Thursday, when we're going to have one of our political cooperation meetings. There we are going to go over and discuss how best to promote the rights of those with disabilities. I am very surprised at what I hear from the opposition, which claims that the background to want a big message is that the organizations are not satisfied with the dialogue with the departments. It's something completely different than what we hear. What we hear after we have established regular meeting points and regular dialogue between the organisations and the department's professionals, who sit and work with the actions of the strategy plan and action plan, is that cooperation is good. It is good to see that there has been an agreement on a regular meeting point in the future in this field to strengthen the rights and equality. You just have to be aware that with the plan that the government had to follow up the work through a strategy plan, it would have gotten faster. We want to see this in a whole. That's why it's nice to write a new big message. It is as has been said here in the past: a big message was addressed in 2013, pointing out that you should have a NOU for a review, and the government put down a sample. It was then outlined that we should get started quickly to follow up this review and take action. The fastest opportunity to do so was through an action plan or strategy plan. When we received a big message from the government just a short time ago in Stortinget, which asked us to follow up, and we do that, it's a little strange that the Storting will have us to bring all the work we are doing back to Stortinget in a new big message. But if the Storting believes that it is the most important and right way to go further, it is with great pleasure that I will present to the Storting these measures, which I will come up with in cooperation with the organizations, a cooperation we are doing well. Then, of course, we will include the proposals that we are now working on in the strategy plan. They are then presented to the Stortinget in a suitable form.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e500	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e506	Governments must understand that organisations have asked the Storting to do this. Then the Council of State should take it over and understand that feedback. It is one and only the Council of State and the government's responsibility if new measures do not come quickly. In that case, there is a priority that the government does and that they have to take responsibility for. There's one theme I need to mention. There's a theme that many people think is hard to talk about. It's that those with developmental disabilities equal to others have sexuality and sexual needs. It's hard for them to put words on it and explore their own sexuality. Sense if this is school education, there is a lack of knowledge about it at the service providers too, so it is important that those working with people with developmental disabilities get good knowledge of it, so that they can help those with developmental disabilities to have a good life in all areas of life.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e513	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e529	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e539	The size today deals with a matter that may not reach the front page of the country’s newspapers today, but is one of the most important issues for the future of the oil and gas industry in Norway. Of course, the industry itself, the government, and today the Stortinget, agree that Norwegian petroleum activities are to be world-leading within the HMS. It is important to underline and repeat in times of high migration and cost reductions in industry. The HMS level in the petroleum industry is world-leading today, and the major accident indicator, which looks at the number of incidents and the potential for damage, shows a positive trend. However, it is worrying to see an increase in serious injuries and a lower psychosocial work environment. It is therefore necessary for the authorities to join the industry in reviewing the serious accidents and working together towards the objective of zero serious injury. The study on the level of risk in Norwegian petroleum activities, RNNP, is the main tool to identify the HMS status in the industry. The RNP survey must have legitimacy in the industry, in the social partners and in the authorities. In 2017, the response rate was 30. At my discretion, there is a low response rate, although it is more than enough to call the survey representative. I am therefore pleased that the Committee, with slightly different wording in its comments, wants the Ministry, together with its partners in the RNP, to assess measures to increase the response rate and ensure the quality of the study. Both the Petroleum Control and the industry’s employees report cooperation under pressure. In too many places, the two-party cooperation does not work as it should. It is of course the responsibility of the parties to clear this up, but the government and the Norwegian authorities should have a positive influence through their participation in tripartite cooperation. It is hardly possible to stress enough the importance of good party cooperation for the HMS work. An overall committee says "Improvement of industrial cooperation is a prerequisite for a high level of HMS in the future". The minority in the Committee, the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV also mention that the Petroleum Authority has exposed pressure on the protection work. Some companies lack guidelines on the protection work and claim that the protection ombudsmen are given too little time for the protection work and that they are involved too late in the cases. These minority parties believe that the protection work, as well as the cooperation of the parties, is absolutely essential in order to have a high level of HMS. We expect companies, under pressure from the authorities, to ensure that sufficient time, competence and clear guidelines are in place to carry out the protection ombudsman work in a good way. The most widely used instruments of Petroleum Control are dialogue and interaction. There have been strong calls from many in the industry that monitoring needs to become clearer in its reaction use. The desire for a clearer use of supervisory response is now confirmed by the Stortinget. An overall committee also expresses the need to ensure sufficient resources for Petroleum oversight in order to have authority and to be able to oversee the industry effectively. One of the major debates on Norwegian pedestals in recent years has been on the so-called multipurpose vessels. For a while back, there was a locked situation, and the red-green parties at Stortinget delivered a Document 8 proposal on the regulation of the vessels. Through work on the matter country at the end of the working party and SV on a proposal to ask the government to engage in dialogue with the parties, with a view to the inclusion of the activity of vessels related to petroleum activities in the Working Environment Act. The Labour Party's position on the matter is firm, but now you're working on a joint effort to hopefully get closer to a solution. The Group will work until autumn 2018, and the Workers' Party today proposes that the government should return to Stortinget with a follow-up to the Group's work. This matter must be resolved sooner or later. Now the parties are working together. The government and the Storting must then reach final conclusions. The oil and gas industry is Norway’s main industry. Five times more investment is made in the oil and gas industries than in all other industries combined. 180,000 employees have their daily work in the industry, and these are the main characters in the matter we are discussing today. The employees who work in oil and gas are the workers who create the most desiderate values per person. They create values on behalf of the community. They're going to do that for many more years, and then together we have to make sure that their security is first priority for all of us. With that, I take up the Labour Party's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e567	The representative Eigil Knutsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e572	In general, there is a high level of safety in Norwegian petroleum activities and there is a broad consensus between the authorities and the parties in the industry that Norwegian petroleum activities are to be world-leading in the HMS. The HMS message describes a regime which is considered to be essentially well-functioning and which continues this ambition. It is the establishments themselves that are responsible for the HMS level. The follow-up of the authorities is in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the company’s own follow-up. The switchover in recent years shows that the industry itself has a decisive influence on the level of costs involved in the petroleum industry. Both the responsibility for and the key to continuous improvement of the HMS level and efficient operation lies with the industry itself. I have worked with HMS in the private business and have been involved in my part of risk analysis and protection under. It is a theme that should always and should be high on the agenda, but I remember being surprised at how far individual oil companies stretched this. For example, many years ago the rules were put in place to go back in the morning when you parked in the morning. Research shows that you are more aware early in the morning than when you leave the job. Furthermore, it has been required for a long time to hold the railing when walking in stairs. This spring I was out on a platform for the first time and got to see this in practice. One employee I met, clarified the importance of having the safety of the high seat. "We can't afford not to think about safety in everything we do, one mistake can be fatal," he said. Mobile telephones are strictly prohibited outdoors due to the ignition hazard. Case damage is a challenge, so securing equipment is an important part of working day. Inside the lifts, I saw myself in a mirror, and above my head, it said, "You're responsible for safety." Safety work is a choice in the petroleum industry, and I'm impressed by the way you work with this. It sits on the back, and party cooperation is a central part of the work and a prerequisite for success. The Norwegian petroleum HMS regime is based on cooperation and participation and on accountability, respect and dialogue between the three parties – the authorities, employees and employers. This is a system that has proved effective and constructive and has contributed to the high level of safety. Petroleum monitoring shall take an active and systematic view of the effective use of the instrument and shall use the full range of instruments if necessary. In the 1990s, there was considerable disagreement about risk, but this has changed since the beginning of the measurement. The RNP measures the level of risk in Norwegian petroleum activities and is an effective tool for measuring the effects of safety and environmental work over time. It's about the loss of life, damage to the external environment and risks. The facts say something about history, while risk says something about the future. Together with the supervision and notification from the companies, this forms the basis for the work on the HMS. There is a high level and a positive trend over time in the health, environment and safety of industry, while at the same time there are challenges. However, the major accident indicator shows a positive trend despite its higher levels in 2015 and 2016. The use of multi-use vessels has increased and created related public debate in recent years. A group of parties is working on issues related to this in order to arrive at a more agreed description of reality. The Ministry of Economic Affairs is now examining the possibilities of requiring Norwegian wage and working conditions in Norwegian waters and on Norwegian seas to clarify the coastal State's action spaces in Norwegian waters and on Norwegian seas without compromising the flag State principle. The government will return to Stortinget with the matter in an appropriate manner once these processes have been completed. Anticipating this work, as proposed by the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, will be to undermine the cooperation of the parties and the work already under way, in view of a proper procedure. Both the Petroleum Authority and Safetech draw in their reports a picture where an increasing proportion of the activity on Norwegian pedestal is done from ships. A natural consequence of this development is that the safety authorities pay greater attention to this part of the petroleum activity. According to the Ministry, supervisory efforts towards this activity will be stepped up within the framework of the Petroleum Act. In order to ensure a sustainable future for Norwegian petroleum activities, industry needs to reduce costs and make operations more efficient, while maintaining and further developing a high level of HMS, ensuring good resource management and ensuring value creation. The petroleum industry needs to go a long way to continuously improve safety and to work with HMS preventively and in the long term. Security is a choice of value, it is fresh, and Norwegian petroleum activities shall lead the world within HMS in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e593	I would like to start by thanking the case rapporteur for a good and tidy job in the committee's examination of this matter. Norwegian petroleum activity has been largely a success story for the country and industry. Hundreds of thousands of people have worked in the petroleum industry, both directly and indirectly through the supplier industry. As a result, this industry has made sure that many families have had good and safe incomes. The community has also benefited from enormous revenues since the Ecofisk field was declared impeccably small Christmas Eve in 1969. But petroleum business requires that you do it in a controlled, proper way and have good procedures to avoid accidents and injuries to people and the environment. We also had terrible accidents in Norway, the largest of which was the Alexander L. Kielland accident on March 27, 1980, which killed 123 people. We've had several helicopter accidents, accidents, oil spills and other incidents. I also want to bring forward all the heroes who were injured during various dive missions, who have been injured for the rest of their lives. The treatment of the North Sea divers by the authorities has been very critical for many years, but fortunately we had a worthy end to this matter in the previous period of magnificence when the government made proposals, which also received the agreement of the Storting through the position of the Labour and Social Committee. There was a decent and well-deserved compensation and excuse for what the divers were exposed to. Nevertheless, fortunately, we can say that the safety level on Norwegian base is very high, that the oil and gas industry is taking HMS work most seriously, and that the ambitions for Norwegian petroleum activities to be world-leading in health, environment and safety are an ambition for all parts – employees, trade unions, employers, control bodies and other authorities. The Committee was recently on a visit to Rogaland and had several meetings with several of the actors on Norwegian pedestal. As mentioned earlier, also today, the Committee had a trip out on the Statfjord C platform. Based on the knowledge and the stories we got on that trip, I believe the government has responded well with this big message. Norway has shown that we can have a petroleum sector that is world-leading in health, environment and safety, while at the same time being profitable and attractive. It should be in the future too, but it requires that we constantly look at improvement points and have close cooperation with all the players in the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e608	According to surveys, there has been a negative development in the physical and psychosocial working environment. There is a reason why there has been an increase in serious injuries, and there is something the centre party thinks is alarming. It is important that we exploit the space for action on health, the environment and safety, cf. Section 10-2 of the Petroleum Act, to ensure our ambition to be a world-leading country in terms of health, environment and safety. For the Centre Party, it is essential that the Petroleum Supervision should be clear. Therefore, we point out ‘clear’, not ‘clearer’, because we believe that Petroleum monitoring should be clear in its reaction use and be targeted at following up the regulatory requirements. It is important that the Storting is precise in terms of use. Multipurpose vessels are becoming more common with new technologies, and it is therefore important to make the Working Environment Act applicable to petroleum-related activities from vessels on Norwegian base. A representative proposal was submitted, Document 8:61 S for 2016-2017, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV. Int. However, 298 S for 2016-2017 was represented by Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen and Stein Lier-Hansen on the proposal alone, after the Norwegian Oil and Gas and Norwegian Industry NHO Associations (Norwegian Associations) were involved in a frontal attack on the proposal. It was strong to hear the double communication that emerged at that hearing, where one gives the impression that Norway, according to their assessment, will continue to be world leader, but that the Working Environment Act will not, for all, be introduced on multi-use vessels, vessels which are becoming more and more relevant to the use of the new technology being developed. The centre party believes that the Working Environment Act is fully applicable to petroleum-related work, structures, piping, maintenance and removal carried out for Norwegian base. This will effectively address existing gaps in the legislation that have provided the basis for undermining the pay and working conditions of petroleum-related activities carried out by multi-use vessels. It is important for health, environmental and safety work that the Labour Environment Act applies to multi-purpose vessels, in order to realise the intention that everyone implies that one agrees, namely our world-leading role in security in this vitally important area in order to secure itself against any accident. Finally, I would like to address the Centre Party and the SV's proposal, no. 2nd@item: inlistbox If proposal No 2 will fall, the centre party will vote subsidiaryly in favour of proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e623	Then the representative Per Olaf Lundteg mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e629	In this case, I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to talk a little bit about my own experiences when I was an apprentice at Ekofisk in the North Sea. One of the strongest impressions left from that time is just the level of security, and how important this was to self-esteem when one was stuck out there for 14 days on a steel house surrounded by eight to ten meters high waves and strong winds. The focus on security was always at the very top of the forehead of everyone who was out there, at any given time. We were totally dependent on this, and so we send people home like that. had troubled times in the family, when this made it took too much room in the head. That's what the big oil companies can do, because they have the means and culture to do. This culture of the companies I'm talking about depends on the good organizational degree and the high acceptance of the trade unions. In the later development of the oil sector, several companies, several foreign companies and several smaller companies have emerged. These are companies that do not share the same tradition and culture of qualitatively good two-party cooperation. This is why we believe that the Petroleum Control can no longer rely solely on a trust-based system, but that they need to become clearer in their reaction use. We also believe in SV that we can no longer have workers on a Norwegian base who are not protected by a law such as this. the environmental protection law. It is totally unsustainable that we should have such cases of deaths on multi-purpose vessels that Stavanger Aftenblad has well-lit. I recommend the proposal of SV to regulate the so-called multipurpose vessel. I would also like to inform you that, if this proposal falls, we shall vote in a subsidiary way for the Labour Party proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e644	The representative, Solfrid Lerbreck, has clarified SV's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e650	I thank the Committee for its good work on this message. Although you may not have signed up in all the notes, it is obvious that you have worked well with the issues and see some common challenges. This is very important in the historical development, where one at the beginning of the oil age had an industry that was characterized by accidents in everyday offshore, but one over the years with a lot of good work has been able to be at the tip of the world when it comes to health, environment and safety. And we're going to be in the years to come -- that's an ambition that all of us share. It is also important to maintain the legitimacy of jobs in an industry that is in no way harmless. The petroleum industry has changed a lot in the last ten years. The oil price falls like a rock. This has meant that many lost jobs and new solutions have been implemented, and it has been a cost level that has been reduced in many ways. Work with HMT is not required. As long as Norway manufactures oil and gas on its Norwegian base, we shall be at the tip of the world. Offshore work shall be so safe that oil workers can come home safely after an end-of-work period. We cannot accept that the level of security should go down.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e658	In the magnification setting that is currently in place, we see that a multi-purpose vessel is a theme. This is a matter that has been up in this room several times, and there have been different selections of parties, because one, when there is a complicated law, wanted one to have an equal sense of reality on the employer and employee sides and among the authorities when one comes with new regulations. There is, of course, an important tree in Norwegian working life and our tripartite cooperation, where the three sides are balanced and able to talk together about what is the reality that one uses. I think it's important when we have the working group that is now set down to discuss the problems of multi-purpose vessels, that we can get a common sense of reality before going into the concrete proposals and starting to come up with proposals that go into that work. Hence, the Christian People's Party will vote against the proposals that are being made.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e662	There is a high level and a positive trend over time in the health, environment and safety of petroleum activities. There is a lot of good safety work in the industry, but there are also challenges. In recent years, the petroleum industry has undergone extensive conversion and concerns have been expressed for both the cooperation of the parties and the development of the HMS level. The background to this concern was, among other things: that the major accident indicator of the RNP had a negative trend in 2015 and 2016 compared to the previous years. For 2017, the situation is positive, and I'm glad. At the same time, it is important to be aware that these numbers are already history. For security is fresh. It requires continuous work day by day. Safety and working environment are interrelated. The working environment standard in the petroleum industry has mainly had a positive trend over time, but there was an increase in serious injuries in 2017. Challenges with psychosocial work environment, safety climate and reporting culture are reported. This is something that the industry needs to address, and that the Petroleum Control will also follow up. The government's ambition is that Norwegian petroleum activities will be world leaders in HMS. I'm glad the Storting is behind this ambition. The ambition also obliges the industry to work with HMS for prevention and long-term purposes, and it assumes that the industry does not take on a high level of safety for given, but works for continuous improvement. The HMS regime in Norwegian petroleum activities is based on cooperation and participation, respect and dialogue between three parties – the authorities, employees and employers. The responsibility for safety lies entirely with the industry. The follow-up of the authorities is in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the industry’s own follow-up. The follow-up of the Petroleum Supervision Authority therefore focuses on its own follow-up to the HMS work. In the absence of follow-up by the actors, the authorities must intervene and correct. There is a broad consensus that the current HMS regime and supervisory strategy are essentially well-functioning and should be continued. At the same time, Petroleum Monitoring must take an active and systematic view of the effectiveness of its use and, if necessary, use the full range of instruments. I have stressed from my point of view that it is important that supervision is clear, and – where necessary – more clearly in its use of instruments. Petroleum industry is an industry in rapid technological development. Technological development is a prerequisite for increased safety and efficiency, and it is therefore important to put new technologies into service. At the same time, it is important to note that technological development can pose new challenges that industry needs to address. In recent years, considerable attention has been paid to the use of so-called multi-use vessels, and a trend is reported in which much of the activity on Norwegian continental shelf is done from ships. Therefore, peer review shall strengthen the follow-up to this ship’s activities within its area of competence. As Stortinget is well-known, I have invited a joint effort to come up with a more agreed image regarding the use of a multi-use vessel on the base. This is part of a larger work that the government has started. In 2016 we asked the Petroleum Inspectorate to take a closer look at the issue. They're making their own report. We have just delivered a report from Safetec, which has also been sent to the working group which is now well underway. The government will therefore return to Stortinget with this matter when the work is completed. We aim to give the working group the opportunity to work out this year. The goal is precisely to arrive at a common, reunited reality picture of both what is facts and what are the challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e687	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e692	The party trap of the Council of State, and now the Council of State, said that the government would return to Stortinget in an appropriate way with the case of a multi-use vessel and the case of Norwegian wage and working conditions in Norwegian waters. It has also been argued in the debate that the Workers' Party and SV are undermining the cooperation of the parties, even if we are not on the same proposal in the Chamber today. But it wasn't the state council that said, so I'll let it go. The working party believes it is good that there is now a multi-purpose working group. It has a tight schedule – before we have heard the autumn of 2018, now the Council of State announced the year 2018. My question to the Council of State is: With this tight timetable, what will she personally do to ensure the progress of the matter, and when does she realize that the matter comes to Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e701	We have not set a final date for the work to be done. We have been busy getting the parties to work well together to arrive at a reunited reality picture – and we would also like to make suggestions. It is not long since the selection was submitted with the Safetec report, which also says something about the development image, or what is believed to be part of the development image. It is also important to remember that the Stortinget has taken a request decision that is followed up by the Ministry of Economic Affairs. There has also been the setting up of a joint working group, including the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. to look at the application of the Maritime Code. As I understand it, the working group will complete its work in 2019. These issues are very closely related. We're busy seeing these things in context, but I'm busy coming back to the Storting as soon as possible. This is an area that is important, affecting many, and in which it is important to have clarification.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e710	Yeah, things are related. I then proceed to the cooperation of the parties in the industry and, in particular, bipartite cooperation. Quite unison feedback from the industry says this is weakened. If I understood the council correctly at the presentation of the big message in Stavanger earlier this year, she said that she would not mean that much, i.e., bipartite cooperation. The working party believes quite a lot about the unisony feedback about weakened party cooperation, especially on some devices on the base. What does the Council of State think she can do to influence bipartite cooperation positively, so that it can work better in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e718	It was ‘not so much about’ in the sense that I am not going to decide how to carry out their two-party cooperation. But I underlined to the parties how important it is to take party cooperation seriously. In many ways, there is gold in our working life, high trust between the parties, good and close cooperation, and close dialogue between the parties. It also shows that good, sustainable solutions can be found over time. I also feel that the parties themselves are committed to doing it in a good way, in a sector that has undergone major, demanding, complicated and tough conversions in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e722	What I am concerned about from my side is precisely to facilitate good cooperation between the parties, where the authorities are also involved. What we have just talked about, on the previous question, the multipurpose vessel, is an example of that. There we are committed to involving the parties closely in issues that are of great importance to them, and there it is also important for us to arrive at a mutually agreed solution. I also feel that the parties are positive and appreciate that involvement.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e725	Multipurpose vessels are ships that are also used for oil-related activities on Norwegian continental shelf, ships that are becoming more and more common, and if the work of the ships and the peoples on board does not fall within the scope of the Norwegian Working Environment Act, we will have a hollowing out of the authority's ability to implement Norwegian law with orderly conditions on board these vessels and in the important activity. I agree that it may be difficult to practise the Norwegian Working Environment Act on a multi-purpose vessel, but that is basically nothing new. It is essential that we relate to the reality that is, and ensure that Norwegian law can apply. When the Council of State says that the Petroleum Control strengthens its work towards a multi-purpose vessel, it is a little concrete, and it is without a legal basis. My question is: is the Council of State in principle in disagreement with the inclusion in the Working Environment Act of a multi-use vessel engaged in oil-related activity — in principle?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e734	It's not like a multipurpose vessel is literally sailing around in a legal room. On the contrary, there is also a regulatory framework for multi-use vessels today. It is a rather complicated piece of legislation, but it is a piece of legislation that was also referred to by the Petroleum Authority in its report in 2016. This means that in all activities where you are in direct contact with the well – yes, the Norwegian legislation also applies, to which the representative Lundtigen refers. Then there are questions about even more of the activities to be covered by the law or not, and here, as I mentioned earlier in the line change, there are two working groups that are now working. One is the working group under my department, which looks at the multi-purpose vessel, and a working group has also been set up in the Ministry of Industry, adopted by the Stortinget, which, among other things, has been set up. looks at the application of maritime legislation. Both conclusions of these working groups will be important in the follow-up later on.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e741	I am aware that it is a regulation, but what both the Petroleum Control and the people on these installations, these multi-purpose vessels, say, is that the law is not clarifying in important matters relating to safety regulations and pay and working conditions that are generally approved in Norway. Therefore, my question was, in principle, whether the Council of State does not agree that for ships that can be used both for oil-related activities and for other activities – when those ships and the crew are used for oil-related activities – the provisions of the Labour Environment Act apply. Does the Council of State agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e746	There are some fundamental considerations to be taken, not least how the Maritime Code applies, and the flag State principles that will apply in that case, and what action space Norway has within the Maritime Code to be able to apply Norwegian legislation to this type of ship as well. That is what we are now looking at in this working group, as the Ministry of Economic Affairs is looking at. I think it's important that we now be careful not to get into a situation where we create challenges for a maritime industry in this work as well. So I agree that it is important to have a good HMS code for employees on multi-use vessels. There is a regulation today for employees who are in contact with the well and who are engaged in direct work connected to the well. So it's not a law that gives the impression that it is, because it's there. It's complicated, but it exists. Then we'll see what those working groups are coming up with, because it's a reality that today there's a great deal of disagreement between the parties about what are the facts, what are the challenges, and what should be done. And we have to respect that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e752	So the chord change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e770	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e779	It has been prohibited to sell cleaning services to both companies and the consumer market without being fully authorised since the entry into force of the clean-up system in 2012, on a proposal from the Government of that time. The sanction regime is aimed at the corporate market for both sales and purchases, not for ordinary consumers. Consumers shall not be liable for infringements of general provisions of the labour market which may be difficult to detect even for authorities and serious enterprises. To operate legally is the sole responsibility of the sole proprietor. This was the background to an exception in the regulation on the purchase of cleaning services that has led to ambiguity and misunderstandings. The main organisations and the industry themselves have considered that the regulation was abused by unprofessional cleaning companies to legitimise the illegal sale of services. Fafo proposed in 2016 that around 43 p.m. I bought a clean black item. When over 270,000 households buy housekeeping, it is important to clear all misunderstandings. That is probably also the background to this proposal. There has been little disagreement about the issue in the committee. On 1 May this year, the Minister of Labour also announced that the regulation will be amended as of 1 July. But the industry still needs to clean up. However, the majority of the Committee does not consider that a new State Purity Portal will make a significant contribution to this. The Cleansing Register, which already exists, has gained new functionality and design that makes it easier for businesses and consumers to identify serious actors. The consumer market is followed up by measures. Cooperation against the black economy and the Industry Programme continues their information programmes and trade white campaigns. At the same time, of course, the Labour Inspectorate and the Centres for Labour Crime must keep up the pressure. Together with the government and the social partners, it is those who clear up where Norwegian employment is needed. That's why I was actually a little stunned when I read in the VG last week that the Workers' Party has launched a clean-up action in the workplace. The figures from the National Institute for Safety and Health at Work show that 94 pst. of the workers asked in Norway are satisfied with the working conditions at work. This, of course, does not apply anywhere or in all branches. But this clearing-up action of the Workers' Party is more like a tightening-up action in a working life that is largely well regulated. Where there is a need for change, the government will follow up. That is why I was even more stunned that the vice-president of the Workers' Party wrote that they now have a majority to strengthen the clean-up approval system. The government sent the proposal to amend the clean-up regulation at the hearing last April. The Labour Party submitted its proposal in April this year. They are not given a majority to amend the clean-up regulation today. It's unnecessary, because it's changing anyway. So the working party is trying to clear where it's already clean, and is running after the government's work to sweep out unprofessional actors and illegal activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e794	The representative’s proposal to strengthen the clean-up approval system was submitted by the Workers’ Party’s representatives to the Labour and Social Committee on 10 April. In her letter of reply on 3 May, the State Council announced to Anniken Hauglie that she would turn around and introduce a ban on the purchase of cleaning from unauthorised cleaning establishments, including consumers. In 2017, such a ban was assessed, but the proposal was abandoned. The fraud now taking place is very good, and if the recipe is a proposal from the Workers' Party, we shall be happy to continue proposing changes to a safe and organised working life. The reason why the Workers' Party promoted these proposals is that parts of the clean-up industry are characterised by unprofessional actors, poor working conditions and labour-life crime. That is why we have announced a clean-up action in the Norwegian working life. In the cleaning industry, too, there must be safe and good working conditions. For me, those who work with cleaning are almost the definition of decent workers. Work is physically demanding and extremely important for the functioning of society. Those who wash our workplace make sure that we can do our job, and those who wash people's homes, make sure that more and more people get the time clip to go up. It is becoming increasingly common to buy cleaning services at home – in 2016 the number of households was estimated at 270,000. In line with the development of wealth, this number is definitely going to increase. Then we have to make sure that the jobs that are created are serious and safe for those who are going to do the job. The majority of the 270,000 households who buy cleaning services do not work daily with work crime and social dumping, as many of us do here in the hall. We have to recognise that there is little knowledge about this problem in many consumers. Therefore, consumer bans on unauthorised cleaning activities are also important symbol policies. The ban itself will increase the knowledge of many, and consumers can make informed choices. The cleaning industry is one of the industries we need to follow in order to ensure safe working conditions, fair competition and law-abiding conditions. That is why we still need to improve the regulatory framework and our tools. Therefore, in addition to the consumer ban, we propose an information portal for the industry, an increase in control activities, and a real-time update of the clean-up register. With that, I take up the Labour Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e811	The representative Eigil Knutsen has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e816	The fight against crime at work has a high priority for the Progress Party and the Government. Life at work and unprofessional actors are harmful to employees who are not being granted their rights — and in some cases are being abused. It is also harmful to society, which is missing out on significant tax revenues. Not least, it is harmful to the vast majority of Norwegian companies that operate legally and properly but are out of competition by actors that compete with them through fraud and crime. Labour crime is happening in all branches of the country. Unfortunately, we have bad examples from Fredrikstad, Sarpsborg, Oslo, Tromsø – yes, from all over the country. In the cleaning industry, there have been special challenges. This is why the authorisation system, which applies to all actors, has until now only been applicable to traders for the purchase of these services. The government sent out last summer at the hearing on whether this requirement should also apply to individuals purchasing cleaning services and has now notified that they are extending the requirement to include private purchasers, with effect from 1 July of this year. That is also why the proposal can be rejected. I also think it is worth taking a few words about how especially the Workers' Party behaves during the day. We talk a lot about Norwegian business, talk about Norwegian jobs and try to create the impression that there is chaos in Norwegian business. I'll warn you about such a story, because it's not true. Nine out of ten employees thrive at work. In general, there is a good relationship between employers and employees. We have mainly serious workers in Norway, who, together with trade unions, employees and others, provide good value in safe and good conditions. It is important that we must fight against the unprofessional actors, but the general problem description with which the Workers' Party comes, I think, is unfortunate. Had it not been unparliamentary, it would have been tempting to say that the curvature of the Workers' Party jeopardizes Norwegian jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e827	I would like to thank the Workers' Party representatives, who are proposers, for ensuring, through a regulatory change, a more orderly working environment for those who do the job, and therefore also a fairer competition for those companies that are responsible for this important work. The regulation on the official recognition of cleaning establishments and on the purchase of cleaning services states in Section 17 that this regulation does not apply, however, to ‘consumers purchasing cleaning services for private use’. [[2]] The centre party is quite clear that this also applies to private use, and that one must therefore remove Section 17 [[1]] ‘Purchasing of cleaning services is only permitted from activities that are either authorised, have an application for authorisation for processing or have a HMS card order for processing, cf. Section 6.» There are formulations that are being abused. We know that there are companies that start their business without having legal, approved, stamp what they are doing. That is why, together with the Socialist Left, the Central Party has tabled proposal No. 5, correcting § 17 [[1]] Purchasing of cleaning services is only permitted from authorised activities. Thus there will be clear rules, and one will have fair competition. Then there's another point that the center party is occupied with. It is that it must be stated in the clean-up register in real-time ‘which persons are authorised to provide clean-up services’. I am pleased that the Labour Party and the SV are involved in this proposal, proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox What is very surprising is why the Right does not support such a proposal, so that we can get neat conditions, and so that one at any time knows who is accepted and approved for the job.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e846	Would the representative like to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e851	I am addressing the proposal that the Central Party shares with the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e856	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e861	For SV it is important to fight for those at the bottom of the table. It's those who take heavy hold of us other people in society, but who may not be seen or recognized. When the railway was put on offer, we learned that one should not miss out on any critical personnel. Nevertheless, the NSB had to engage in a political strike because only a few weeks ago, because the Minister for Transport would not secure a business transfer for the initialisation staff. I'm not saying this because the railway reform itself has so much to do with this case, but because it says something about how people look at cleaning staff. When not even our own government sees retention as a critical task, it might be tempting to ask if they would take a train that was not prepared, work in an office that was never cleaned or had been installed in a hospital that was never properly washed. Of course, keeping in mind is a critical and essential task. For this reason, we have our own approval arrangements for those who are to be allowed to carry out cleaning operations and a requirement to use approved reindeer holdings. Unfortunately, we see several unprofessional cleaning companies in the market and that individuals do not want to know the difference between an approved and an unauthorised cleaning company. This leads to unprofessionalism, social dumping and labour crime. It limits the safety of the customer and ensures that serious cleaning companies are out of competition from the private market for cleaning, black and illegal work. We don't want it like that. For this reason, we would like the prohibition against using non-approved retention companies also to apply to individuals, to make it easier for individuals to examine who is approved and to increase the number of controls, so that unprofessional operators are taken or removed from the market.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e871	The Christian People's Party is concerned that parts of the reindeer industry are characterized by unprofessional actors, poor working conditions and labour crime. This undermines the security of the workplace as one of the companies that operates well. Fortunately, more measures have been put in place to address these problems. The authorisation system for retention introduced in 2012 is based on the fact that all cleaning companies have an obligation to seek approval from the Labour Inspectorate. Approved enterprises will then be listed in a separate reindeer register, which is generally available. In order to obtain approval, the company must provide documentation on the pay and employment conditions of the employees and be registered in specific public registers. Unapproved companies will not be able to legally sell housekeeping services, either to businesses or to consumers. The ban on traders from purchasing reinhabiting services from companies that are not authorised is now extended to private consumers from 1 July 2018. The Reinhalt Register received a new design, with new functions, on the Web pages of the Labour Inspectorate, to make it easier for purchasers of reindeer services to find out about the serious providers, and the Christian People's Party looks at the proposal for a common information portal for the reindeer industry as a retailer. The proposal to keep an approval register up-to-date will be required to be implemented because manual document checks are part of the assessment and the arrangements are set up will be possible without any change in actual regulations and the basis for the approval lapses. The Christian People's Party assumes that this must be captured through supervision and through the obligations of approved companies to submit evidence that the conditions are still met. Otherwise, the Christian People's Party emphasises that approved enterprises have obligations to equip all their employees with HMS cards, and that the supervisory authorities and some other actors with specific HMS responsibilities – protection environment, builder – have the possibility to verify the validity of the cards in real time. Therefore, the Christian People's Party does not see the need to support any of the proposals that are being made in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e884	In parts of the cleaning industry, there are unprofessional operators who exploit workers, circumvent the rules and compete seriously. Several measures have been put in place to improve clean-up conditions. One of the objectives of the 2012 authorisation system was to provide supervisory authorities with a better overview of the operators in the clean-up industry so that controls on employment and health, the environment and safety could be better monitored. The Labour Inspectorate has had the clean-up industry as one of its areas of activity, with almost 5000 supervision over the last five years. All cleaning establishments are obliged to apply for approval of the Labour Inspectorate and to be included in the cleaning register. Establishments not authorised by the Labour Inspectorate may not legally sell cleaning services, either to businesses or to consumers. As a result of the government's proposals sent out to the hearing last year, we have strengthened the approval system in order to make it more difficult for unprofessional cleaning establishments to operate in the market. The first amendments came into force earlier this year. Today it is prohibited for traders to purchase cleaning products from companies that are not approved. In the hearing note we sent out last year, we asked the hearing bodies whether this should also apply to consumers. As a result of the recordings, the government has concluded that we will extend this ban to private consumers. It is therefore the case that when consumers are going to buy cleaning at home, they must also make sure that the business from which they purchase is authorised and thus operates legally. In this way, we can limit to a greater extent the unprofessional operators in the cleaning industry. The amendment will be an important signal and will enter into force on 1 July of this year. It is important that the authorities and the social partners continue to work together on a broad and common approach to labour crime in the clean-up sector and build on the good work already done. Better and more accessible information and awareness-raising are important tools in the future to increase consumer awareness and knowledge of cleaning services. In this way, we can make it easier for consumers to make good and conscious choices, thus helping to create a more serious working life, which will meet the needs of employees and ensure competition in the market.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e897	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e902	On 9 May this year, a well-written question was submitted to the Council of State, which was answered on 18 May. The hearing referred to last year and the considerations weighed down in 2017, which meant that a voter did not extend the ban to private consumers as well and what has changed since the time that the government turned the case around. I received a written reply from the Council of State and was informed of many of the reasons for imposing a consumer ban, but the main issue of my question was to know what reasons spoke against a consumer ban in 2017, and what has changed since that time. I shall therefore re-examine this question to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e909	The hearing bodies unisonly agreed that this should be done, and there are many good reasons for imposing the ban, but the main reason why we were unsure whether this would make sense was the great uncertainty as to how the supervision should be carried out. We cannot send the Labour Inspectorate into the Norwegian homes. We were just trying to ensure that a ban on the consumer market would not only become a paper tiger, but be of real significance. The background for our uncertainty was how to carry out supervision when such supervision would then be in private homes. This cannot be done by the Labour Inspectorate. However, there is no doubt that when this ban is introduced, supervision of the activities performing the services will be even easier. In particular, there will be a strong signal to consumers that this is no longer lawful for consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e916	I have e.g. Nor is it allowed to purchase electrical services from someone who is not approved, so it is possible to supervise them. But I want to go over to some government council that was inside and that I was in my post, that this is actually also important symbol policy and sends a clear signal from the government and the Storting that we want safe jobs in the cleaning industry. We want it to be white and we want serious relationships. My question to the Council of State is: What new approach will she take with it these regulatory changes to inform consumers about the new legislation?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e923	What will at least become important now is that businesses and businesses can no longer tell consumers that it is not so dangerous that they themselves are not authorised, because it does not affect consumers anyway. Now it will affect consumers, so it is even more important that businesses and businesses actually register. Central to this work will be cooperation with the industry, naturally enough. Industry cooperation is close and good today. Information campaigns have already been launched against consumers, and even more information will be needed, implemented by the industry programme and through other channels, to ensure that consumers are well aware of this. Of course, media attention is also important. We have at least done a part to promote the regulatory changes, precisely to make it visible to consumers that they must now also be involved in ensuring a serious and thorough working life by ensuring that services are purchased from legitimate businesses. It's the simplest thing in the world. It's just to go into the Labour Inspectorate's website, and there's a lot of companies that deliver white and proper.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e930	What is a common denominator on the issue of labour crime, social dumping and undeclared work is that there is a lack of clarity in law and regulation, which provides the basis for good excuses for not doing a decent job. So we have to have clear rules and corresponding clear responses. That is why the Centre Party and the SV have put forward proposal No. 5, that only approved cleaning establishments shall be permitted. It is linked to the regulation § 17 [[1]] ‘Purchasing of cleaning services is only permitted from activities that are either authorised, have an application for authorisation for processing or have a HMS card order for processing, cf. Section 6.» As a result, you can apologize by saying that you have an application for authorisation. My question is: why can't the government support a proposal that will change this to one that has to be approved? Will there be too high a requirement for public proceedings? Is there any reason for the government to reject the proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e942	I believe it is an unnecessary intervention. I am also not sure if you have the opportunity to do so, in the light of the right of establishment. I feel that this adds a little to the series of examples of the opposition's fundamental mistrust of Norwegian business. We believe it is sufficient to have an application for treatment, to start activities while waiting for the examination of the application, and thus not to wait for the time it takes for the application to be accepted. At the same time, we have tightened up the ability of the Labour Inspectorate to reject applications. It is especially in view of the issues where there is reason to believe that there are actors who are unprofessional and who are speculating in the authorisation regime on which we have based. All in all, we believe that the cuts we have made will make it easier for the Labour Inspectorate to reject and close out the unprofessional ones. At the same time, we ensure that it is possible to establish businesses in a fairly simple way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e951	Saying that having approval would mean an unnecessary intervention is rarely a diet from the Storting's pulpit. Most people in Norway are fully aware that when sending an application to public authorities, they cannot expect it to be approved. At least one may not initiate the measure until the authorisation has been granted. Here we have a regulation that will allow you to start before the application is accepted. It's the recipe for creating grey zones, which makes us get these fuzzy relationships. I want to repeat the question: why can't the government support such a proposal? Will there be too high a requirement for public proceedings? Public proceedings must be effective, so that the application process is short. Thus, an answer is received, yes or no, and it must be included in Section 17 of the Regulation. [[1]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e958	The proceedings shall be conducted in any case. The only question is whether you should establish yourself before or after the proceedings have been carried out. It has no significance for the processing capacity. In any event, the proceedings must be carried out. We believe that there is an unnecessary intervention. It should be fully possible for establishments to start up pending approval. As I also said in my previous reply, I am also uncertain whether this is contrary to the right of establishment. But here I am on a little thin ground, because the legislation is not subject to my department. We believe that the measures we have already taken, in view of the possibility for the Labour Inspectorate to reject applications, will be important tools for the Labour Inspectorate to close out those who are unprofessional. I see no reason to tighten it more than we have already done. I feel quite certain that the measures we have taken will be important contributions to making the clean-up industry whiter and more serious than we have seen some examples of today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e968	The fact that such a change of regulation would involve conflicts with the right of establishment is entirely new to the undersigned. That the EEA Agreement should oblige Norway to ensure that establishments can be set up and start to make money before the establishment is approved in Norway is considered to be ineffective. But I'm taking note of the answer. My follow-up is that when it is such a § 17 [[1]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e975	The challenge is that if you do not want to be able to start up before the application is approved, it will apply to all companies, including those that would not have been able to establish themselves, pending approval. After all, we have to assume that the vast majority of those applying are law-abiding, practicing and wanting to be serious. So the vast majority that would then be affected by a postponement would be serious and real businesses. I have to repeat that we have made quite significant restrictions on the ability of the Labour Inspectorate to reject applications as well. The companies are now required to provide documentation every three years. So there are significant restrictions on the ability of both the Labour Inspectorate to reject and the obligation of the companies to prove that they are operating seriously and properly. The sum of the measures taken, I believe, will contribute to a significant reduction in the clean-up sector. It's important, because there's been a great need to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e984	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e991	It is particularly important to contribute to orderly and serious conditions in Norwegian working life. It is important for those who are employees, but it is also important for those companies that operate seriously and properly. It is important for those who buy the services – in the case we are discussing in this case, among others. those who purchase cleaning services and have cleaners inside their private homes. There are a lot of people who buy cleaning services. In 2016, 270,000 did. Only approx. one third of them knew about the approval system, and probably it was far less that actually checked out. SINTEF had a report in 2017 on the clean-up industry that described that the illegal sector was most likely significantly larger than previously assumed, that black work was more organised than before, and described in the report both informal networks and closed networks within the industry. Fafo had an evaluation of the authorisation system in 2016, including: said the following: ‘The main measure to increase the seriousness of the private market is therefore likely to further increase efforts towards the purchase of black services.’ In the Sintef report that I have previously referred to, one says, among other things. the following in the summary: «Founded measures to combat unprofessionalism have had only limited effect on the consumer market.» It is particularly important that one implements further measures. It's been requested by the Center Party. The undersigned himself, in several questions to the Council of State, has asked what kind of new measures are being taken. It is good that one finally turns around and says that one is willing to remove Section 17 of the regulation, which refers to the purchase of cleaning services for private persons, but there is also a need to go further. [[2]] It is little incredible to hear the description and justification given as to why it should not be an absolute requirement for those establishments to be approved before they can start their activities. For those who want to drive properly, for those who want to run seriously, it is of course good to wait for an approval. Far worse is that one can live in a situation where one has businesses that deliberately exploit the legislation by having the ambiguity that is here. Therefore, the proposal of the Centre Party is very important, including what the Centre Party, SV and the Workers' Party agree on: that one must have real-time information in the Purity Register.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1010	There are many good reasons why the Workers' Party has taken the initiative in a clean-up action for Norwegian working life. It's about the safety of the employees. It is about predictability and good framework conditions for serious Norwegian businesses. And it is not least that consumers and commissioners should have security. The thing we're discussing today, has all of these three elements in it. When Erlend Wiborg and representatives from the Right and the Advance Party say that working for safe Norwegian working conditions and ensuring Norwegian companies is talking business down, it only shows how little contact you have with business. Because it is precisely the serious companies that have contacted us and asked that it be done to clean up. It is precisely these companies that are being outrun, in a landscape where the government sits with its hands trapped and looks at unprofessionalism spreading, to more and more industries and to more and more parts of the country. The government would like to keep saying that everything is good, but we don't have the patience to sit still and see that the problems break. We also want to be in the forefront, before it's too late, in industries where today it appears to be neat and neat. In the case of the clean-up industry specifically, the largest Norwegian operator on the market does not have a greater market share than approximately. 1 to 1.5 pst. of the turnover in Norway. It is estimated that approx. 98 pst. of the market in approx. 7 B.C.E. kr is black turnover. The largest Norwegian operator thus announced that although the market on the clean-up side is rising, their turnover is falling. There is evidence of a very unfortunate development, for there are unprofessional actors, often also subject to crime, who take over market shares. There was very little happening from the government's side in this area. They actually dropped out of the proposal we are now discussing, as late as about. Six months ago. So the post to Heidi Nordby Lunde, where she's trying to make a reality statement that this has been working for too long, it just couldn't stand a fact check. We are also concerned about whether we are now effectively supervising this. Recently, the trustees of the Labour Inspectorate went out and warned that they did not tolerate any more cuts. It is important that what is now done is followed up by an increased framework for the Labour Inspectorate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1031	If someone were to check something in fact, we could check the fact that the government is holding hands and seeing that work-life crime is breaking down. The truth is that this government has set up seven work-life-rescue centres in four years, against zero during the eight years of the Workers' Party. Then it falls on its own unreasonableness. I fully agree with the representative, Gülsvik, who says that it is important to combat the unprofessional, both for the employee and for the serious actors. This has been important for the Right all along. When Eigil Knutsen asked what the challenge was to remove that part of the regulation that was problematic, it's because there was a debate that it was fundamentally suspicious to turn the penalty regime against consumers, because we don't do that in so many other cases. If we, for example, find out that a clothing store sells clothes made from child labour in Asia, we do not go out and arrest consumers when they have shopped there. That's why it's also been an assessment, but I'm glad we're removing that part of the paragraph that made it room for misunderstandings. I also agree with SV that it must be easier to find out about the serious issues. I think it's done something about that. The pressure against the unprofessional must increase and the industry must be thoroughly cleaned up. I would like to remind you that already in 2011, when another government put power, the Right was actually out and suggested among other things. Tax relief and tax relief for those who bought services at home, just to clean up in an industry where we saw black work breaking down. Then the Workers' Party was more concerned with accusing the Right of giving tax incentives for gardening or laundry services, when the whole point was – from our colleagues in the Moderates in Sweden – to laundering an industry we knew was becoming much blacker. And not only that: we also saw that this was an industry that got many women with a minority background who worked black. They stood completely without rights. By contributing to money laundering, they could earn a living. They got social rights and not least pension rights, which they don't get as long as they wash black. While the Workers' Party has been more concerned with introducing whips, the Right has been more concerned with introducing carrots. But I see that there are also challenges with such a proposal, and that something fits on one side at one time, and then you have to take further action when you see that something is going terribly wrong. I believe that this government has done and followed up, among others. with its anti-crime strategy, which is evaluated every six months with the social partners. If we're going to take a fact-finding, I suggest we put it on whether the government is holding hands.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1042	For the discussion on tax deductions: it is quite up to the individual citizen and the individual family in Norway whether one wishes to purchase cleaning services on the basis of their situation. I fully understand that very many people do it in both ordinary situations and possibly related to moving and in other contexts. There's something you choose yourself, and something you pay yourself. But are you going to have tax credits to act in a serious and proper way? Of course, people buying cleaning services are required to comply with Norwegian law, regardless of whether there is a tax deduction or not. From the right, they say that we have to introduce a tax deduction to make the industry white. No, people who buy cleaning services for their private homes should do so regardless of whether there is a tax deduction or not. People who buy that service should have a good opportunity to pay their taxes anyway. However, the rapporteur did not respond to the challenges that have arisen on the part of the Central Party, which is why one rejects our proposal that all businesses should be approved before they can start their activities. It should be a very obvious and fundamental principle that when you make an application, you wait until you have been approved before you start your activity. The cleaning industry is a pretty good example of the fact that in some industries there are actors that disappear, new actors show up, but some of the same people are involved. But then one is not willing to have a clear code that says that once you have submitted an application, it is not enough; you must have the approval of that application before you can start your business. It is a wise proposal to contribute to more tidy conditions, which contribute to seriousity, which help to strengthen the actors who are actually doing serious business today, in order to clear away those who are speculating in the system. I think it is a pity that the Right and the majority do not agree with that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1049	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1065	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1074	I would like to thank the Workers' Party for its commitment to improving the generalisation system. A system of generalisation for collective bargaining is important in the actual situation we face, in order to have a more well-organised working life, which is the prerequisite for a safe family life. The General Public Service Act was adopted by the Stortinget in 1993, with effect from 1 January 1994. There is an interesting majority in the vote, where all the members other than the Workers' Party point out that the background to the law was the impact on the Norwegian labour market of the waiver of sovereignty through the conclusion of the Agreement on the European Economic Area, EEA. It is especially that the Workers' Party cannot participate in such an actual description of the conditions. The General Public Service Scheme was first implemented in 2003, and in 2004 and 2007 we received the major enlargements of the European Union, which made it more relevant in more and more areas. There has been a steady increase in the number of public service decisions, and the Committee has noted that new industries, in particular, have received the minimum wage in recent years. There is a fundamental disagreement in the Committee of Government Parties, which considers that the public service system works well as it has been set up today, and the opposition, who wants improvements. There is no general minimum wage in Norway. Wages and salaries are agreed between the employer and the employee as part of the written contract of employment, and the general scheme underpins the need for sound conditions. Minority – The Working Party, the Centre Party and the SV – are in favour of better facilitating public service provision. In minority proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre's Party and SV, we say that it needs to be easier to apply simplified documentation requirements, reverse the documentation requirement of the already adopted Public Procurement Decision and extend the period of publication. In the Committee's proceedings, the Workers' Party certainly considered that this proposal would not have a majority. As a result, we also received proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party, where one asks the government to evaluate the public service system, which I see as a subsidiary proposal for proposal No. 1, supported by the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV. If proposal No 1 will not be given a majority, the Central Party will vote in a subsidiary way for proposal No. 2, and since there has also been a new proposal, from the Christian People's Party, I would like to say on behalf of the Centre Party that if not proposal No. 2 gets a majority, the Central Party will support the Christian People's Party's proposals, which means that one will evaluate and then consider making proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1089	Will the representative address the proposal to which he referred?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1094	That's what the representative wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1099	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1104	The Workers' Party has taken the initiative for a clean-up action in Norwegian working life, which includes this proposal. We want a working life with all the permanent jobs. We want proper pay and working conditions. In short, we want a safe and fair working life. Increasing migration also increases the risk of unprofessional employers exploiting vulnerable and non-resident labour. It can help to increase differences in working life, it can weaken organised working life, it can create more insecurity for workers. Public education is an important tool to ensure worthwhile pay and working conditions, but the scheme is not yet perfect, and challenges can also change in different industries and up through the years. Therefore, the government should be committed to improving the scheme. I'm afraid they're not. We get reports that the scheme leads to a relatively high level of bureaucracy for trade unions, which must spend a lot of its time documenting the need to promote it to the public. We also receive reports that the period laid down — in two years’ time — is very short. Once you have an area publicized, you need to immediately, almost, start compiling new documentation to prepare the matter in two years' time. This is why we have made proposals that will make the job of the trade unions easier, so that they can concentrate on doing the job they are going to do to their members, and that we get an extension of the period, so that it gives more predictability to the employees, but also to the employers. We've also heard that in some industries there's a trend towards minimum wages for everyone, and that's a trend we don't want. We therefore believe that the system as such should be evaluated and that it should be improved. There are proposals that I would like to be able to have a majority, because there are actually proposals on which the employer side is also concerned. However, the government obviously does not listen to this issue either to employers or to employees, so it appears that a majority in the UK has to push it through. I'm addressing proposal 2, from the Workers' Party. Should neither that proposal nor proposal No. 1 few majority, we will vote in a subsidiary way for the proposal of the Christian People's Party, which has been submitted as a loose proposal. I hope it can get a majority, and that the Storting must once again give the government an instruction to deliver where the government just sits and looks at.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1117	The representative of Arild Grande then addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1122	Where there is a need to ensure the same pay and working conditions for non-resident workers as for Norwegian workers, the public sector may be used. Public service activities are also used to prevent distortions of competition which are detrimental to the Norwegian labour market, so that those performing the same work in Norway — foreign or Norwegian — have the same conditions. And the law requires this to be documented. The Norwegian model is otherwise very different from other countries’ generalisation schemes, as our aim is to protect foreign workers, while in other countries it is intended to ensure tariff conditions in the ordinary national labour market. In Norway, the scheme shall not be used to provide for the general distribution of collective bargaining agreements, even if the scheme has been continuously extended to several sectors. It is the subject of tariffs that decides to publish, usually after a worker’s or employer’s organisation so requires, but it is also possible to do so on their own initiative if they consider that the general interest requires such regulation. Generalisation of collective bargaining agreements is an intervention. It is therefore important that the factual basis for such cases is real and timely. Extensive evidence is not required, nor is it particularly difficult, and there are currently no examples of a case being rejected. And as stated in Section 4 of the Act, there is a need to provide documentation that provides «reason for believing» that the conditions are fulfilled – i.e. reason to believe, not that it has been proven. In Norway, we work according to the principle that wage formation is the responsibility of the parties. Public disclosure differs to a certain extent from this, especially since the subject-matter of tariffs may, in exceptional cases, lay down conditions of remuneration and employment other than those resulting from the collective bargaining agreement. According to the report of the Societal Economic Analysis in 2015, there was considerable scepticism on the part of the workers at the beginning of the public service. One of the appeals then was that the public service would provide free passengers, and that the degree of organisation would decrease, as well as that the statutory minimum wage regulation could weaken the position of the collective bargaining agreement. In view of some of the other debates we've had in ours, you can't ignore the fact that the employee's side might have been right in his scepticism. If the general scheme is to be made even simpler, be even longer and possibly cover even more sectors, what is the point of having far-reaching collective agreements through membership of a trade union? Then all the benefits fall away.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1137	SV believes that the public policy is a good arrangement where there is a need for her. There are currently too high documentation requirements for proposing a tariff to be made public. The trade unions strongly want this to be made easier, as the documentation requirement for social dumping is very difficult. I announce subsidiary support for the proposal of the Workers' Party and for the loose proposal of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1144	Following the enlargement of EU and EEA territory on 1 May 2004, the wage and working conditions of migrant workers became a challenge, immigration from new EU countries increased sharply, and subsequently it was demonstrated that several immigrants accepted wages far below the minimum rates of the tariff agreement. This led to the submission of proposals for public administration in several industries by the trade union movement, and the issue of tariffs has been the subject of more general government decisions since 2004. The Christian People's Party believes that the public administration institution plays an important role in countering very low wages in those industries where public administration has already been agreed. Job opportunities may increase local labour force competing for jobs against migrant workers who receive higher wages due to public administration. However, if the minimum rates are set, they may also affect local labour. Public administration can also raise the level of costs for some enterprises. The Public Administration Institute as it operates today also has its limitations. Publicisation is initially a temporary act, while the low-wage competition from immigrants is likely to be of a lasting nature. Public administration is now in use in some industries, but there are many workers with very low wages in other industries as well. In these industries, there may be little effective means of preventing very low wages for these groups. The Team III Committee points out that arrangements are needed to combat social dumping and low-wage competition in areas with significant immigration for a long time to come. The selection also recommends that the authorities and the parties regularly consider whether the public administration system works satisfactorily. Hence, the Christian People's Party is going to make a loose proposal, where: ‘The government is asked to submit a case for evaluation of the public service scheme and to consider proposing improvements to this scheme’.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1159	Then the representative, Tore Storehaug, took up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1164	It's almost like every time you stand on this pulpit, you have to make it clear that a single majority on the Grand Duchy is for fixed employment to be the general rule – it's now become the same. The Public Procurement Scheme is a central instrument against unacceptable pay and working conditions and it is important that this scheme functions effectively. The social partners have a key role to play in this scheme, including: by promoting requests for publication where one considers it necessary. It has been said that nine industries today have been publicised, and there is no example of tariff issues refusing to take a request for treatment due to a lack of evidence. Then it has been suggested that this should be evaluated. Then I have to say that the Public Service Act was evaluated in 2005. The Public Health Scheme was also one of the instruments assessed in a major evaluation carried out by Fafo in 2011. In 2015, a report on the impact of public tariff agreements was submitted by the Societal Economic Analysis. These evaluations and assessment of the public service arrangement show that the scheme operates mainly as intended. Proposals to evaluate this scheme will be to look for challenges that have not yet been identified. There is no effective use of the departments. I also do not think it is right in these times when there are still new proposals. Assessments and assessments so far show that the public service system is basically functioning properly and that the scheme is functioning. The scheme was last evaluated in 2016, and we do not see any new issues that make a new evaluation necessary at that time. I would also like to point out that there are conflicting views between the parties about the public service arrangement. Therefore, a wish to evaluate it should come from the parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1175	This proposal provides for the possibility of facilitating more use of public disclosure. It addresses both the dossier requirement, the duration of, and the conditions under which a public service decision is to be continued. Public disclosure is an important tool to prevent discrimination between Norwegian and foreign workers and to facilitate fair competition. At the same time, there is an intervention because it departs from the basic principle of our working life model that wage fixing is the domain of the parties. Therefore, there must also be a certain threshold for the use of publicity, so that it is reserved for those cases where intervention is necessary. That is also the reason why a public service decision is limited in time. It ensures that a reassessment of the need is made at regular intervals. As regards the documentation requirement, there has been a gradual development – both in law and in practice – towards a more modest documentation requirement. I find it difficult to see that the documentation requirement prevents me from getting through well-founded requests. Of course, the current system of review of decisions every two years requires a certain use of resources, both by the promoting organisation and by the subject matter of Tariffs. At the same time, however, this is an important safety valve that helps to make public use where it is intended. The general public service is a compromise between important considerations: decent pay and working conditions and a level playing field on the one hand and respect for the autonomy of the parties in terms of wage fixing on the other. When we look at developments in the use of publishing and the extent of the public sector we have today, I see that with the current system there is a reasonable balance between these considerations. In addition, the research available shows that the overall functioning of the public service scheme is consistent with the intention. Several evaluations and reviews of the scheme have been carried out in recent years. I believe that the research and knowledge that is already there should be comprehensive, and that there is therefore no need to make changes to the system now.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1188	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1193	The Council of State itself stated in its statement that public disclosure is an important step to avoid discrimination in terms of pay and working conditions between Norwegian and foreign workers. Therefore, we believe that the public service should be regularly assessed and evaluated, to see whether it is accurate enough, whether it is well managed and whether it meets the political objectives of having a clean and proper working life. Now it's been five years without the government doing any of the world's things with the system, and even now you're fighting it. But now it seems that there is a majority in the United Kingdom to force the government to carry out such an evaluation and to consider proposing improvements to this scheme. How quickly does the Council of State see that you can deliver on that mission?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1202	It is not that this scheme has not been reviewed and evaluated; it was reviewed and evaluated in 2005, 2011 and 2015. It's relatively regular, I'd say. The conclusion is that the scheme works mainly after the intention. It is not particularly difficult to implement public disclosure. It does not require much evidence from the person wishing to make public, nor do there exist any examples of the fact that the name has rejected requests, and there are also very few examples of the fact that the name has not continued the public service where this has been reconsidered. So it's not that the arrangement doesn't work. And I really think it's important that we also take care that there's a reasonable balance, precisely because there's a drastic intervention in party autonomy in terms of wage formation and what's the foundation stone itself, and the cornerstone, in our working life model. Now it seems that the Storting will adopt an evaluation. And of course we're going to do that. In that case, we will have to see what the evaluation will finally show of any need for action, before we can present a case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1209	The Government's response reveals that there is obviously little willingness to hear what the parties actually say about the public service arrangement, if you have the extensive dialogue that you claim to have. Our contact with the trade unions suggests that we spend a great deal of time documenting the needs, promoting the matter – work that could be used to concentrate on working for the opportunities of our members. However, employers claim that the scheme is not predictable, too transparent, and that it should be evaluated. So when both the employer side and the employee side conclude that it should be reviewed and evaluated, I cannot understand why the government is so opposed. Is the government not concerned that increased migration and increased pressure on Norwegian pay and working conditions could affect the entire Norwegian working life if we are not more forward-looking?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1214	Now there are nine branches that are publicized and that have actually published the minimum wage today, so it's not that there are no public areas today. That's a lot of it. It has also been an important tool to prevent social dumping and unworthy employment, especially for those who come to Norway. I still believe that we have good evaluations today. They've also been done regularly. It shows that the scheme works essentially. I also believe that it is reasonable to review the public areas regularly to see if it still hits well enough, and whether it is still valid. And it is – as I also mentioned in my previous answer – in very few cases that the term has not continued to be published there. But now we have to carry out a new evaluation, and then we have to see what is coming to light in that evaluation, and what action is to be taken. Then we get back to Stortingen when the evaluation is done, and once you have received feedback on what may be done by changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1223	The General Public Service Act, which provides the legal basis for the publication of collective bargaining agreements, was adopted with effect from 1 January 1994 – at the same time as we were given the EEA Agreement. Those who saw the need for publication were predictable, because there was a consequence of the EEA Agreement, which meant the freest movement of labour across borders. So it's interesting that the description of reality that I'm now giving, all parties, except the Workers' Party, agree, that that's what was behind the whole public service institution, an institute that was in conflict with what was the Norwegian tradition, because this was between the parties in the past. But then one had to introduce this law. Is the Council of State in agreement with the understanding of reality – that it was the EEA Agreement that led to a breach of the Norwegian principle and thus to the adoption of the Public Service Act?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1230	Clearly, enlargement of the EEA was an important factor in this work, as it was estimated that there would be workers from Europe. Fortunately, so has it. After all, Norwegian working life has had a major need for the workforce that the EU has been able to provide, and cross-border free movement has been largely positive for Norwegian business. Probably we have seen that there have been some challenges with this as well. On the Norwegian side, the General Public Service Scheme has been one instrument to reduce its scope. On the EU side, the Posting of Workers Directive, the Enforcement Directive and now the revision of the Posting of Workers Directive have been important EU initiatives to ensure equivalent working conditions and to prevent the exploitation of workers and social dumping, particularly in the case of East Europeans who have travelled to the west and where we have seen that there have been some poor working conditions. So the combination of what has been done by the Norwegian side and by the EU has contributed to better working conditions for European workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1235	We may have different opinions about whether the EEA Agreement has worked positively or negatively, but what is at the heart of this is the pay and working conditions of a number of professions in Norway. The Council of State says that it was ‘an important factor’, but it is a fact that the Public Service Act came into force on 1 January 1994, i.e. at exactly the same time as the EEA Agreement. My question is, what other than the EEA agreement did a public service law, which was a new tradition in Norway, which broke with what was in the past, just at the time? What else did the basis for just implementing it from 1 January 1994?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1243	Since there is an overall committee – with the exception of the Labour Party – in the vote, it is almost tempting to ask whether the representative confuses me with an Labour Party representative. My party is behind the same description of reality, that EEA enlargement was an important factor. At the same time, it is important to stress that Norwegian working life was at the time — has been for several years and will continue to be so — depending on labour immigration, not only from Europe but also from outside Europe. And if we are to be able to meet the needs of the Norwegian labour force, it is positive that we have the opportunity to do so, among other things. through the EEA Agreement and through other arrangements, which also provide us with labour from outside Europe, such as: agriculture depends on it. But we are also concerned that we should have serious working conditions. The General Public Service Facility is one instrument. At the same time, there is an intervention, precisely because it intervenes in the autonomy of the parties in such a way that we should also be a little cautious about using it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1250	I do not confuse the Council of State with an Labour Party representative – I can only confirm that it is not that wrong. But what was the point is that it's especially that there's a majority of the committee, all except the Workers' Party, that points this out. For this reason, it was important for me to get the statements of the Council of State from the Chair, that the Council of State agrees with the large majority of the Committee that it was precisely the EEA Agreement – which provided for a new situation on the labour market in Norway – which required the adoption of the Public Service Act, which was therefore a breach of the Norwegian tradition in terms of how pay and working conditions were to be treated in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1255	At the same time, it may be important to bear in mind that this case is not primarily about EEA enlargement, but about how easy it is to generalise, what requirements should be on the ground, and what needs to be done to do so. I mean, you have to be careful about that. In a country where we are concerned that the parties should determine pay and working conditions, it now means that we actually have the minimum wage in the industry by industry – nine industries are now. It is important to ensure a good balance, precisely in order to respect party autonomy. But I record that Stortinget wants a new evaluation to be made, in addition to the ones we did in 2005, 2011 and 2015. We're going to do that. Then we have to get back to Stortinget if there is a need to take further action – it remains to be seen – when a new evaluation has been carried out in that case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1262	So the chord change is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1269	I will follow up on what the Council of State concluded with now, namely to be careful to include more industries under the Public Service Act. The representative of Grande was also concerned with this with the weak aspects of a minimum pay scheme. As we who make up the minority – the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV – say, there will probably be a need for a more generalisation of the minimum wage. The dilemma here is that we don't want to weaken the parties' negotiations on pay and working conditions. But when we're in a situation where there's a fundamental imbalance between those who need workers and the number of workers who are interested in jobs, the trade unions get into a big dilemma. It is here that the trade unions have the sole support of a user of the principle of public disclosure in order to gain greater power in the negotiations, so that the many applicants for the few jobs are more strongly represented by the generalisation of pay and working conditions. The representative, Süttar, was also involved in this and said that the public service could lead to that there was no point in collective agreements. Yes, there are some who claim it, but in the trade unions there is now a unison attitude that in the actual situation you have to use the public service institution. But what is my point is that we have come into a situation where there is an imbalance between the supply and demand of labour, not least in a number of practical professions such as carrying out the investigations of consultants, and these practices are in a more difficult position in working life in their wage and working conditions negotiations. So the Storting has to correct something. But I would like to stress that the seas of one here are correcting with the Public Service Institute, knowing any practice that lives in everyday life in Norwegian working life, there are an incredible number of ways to avoid having equivalent relationships, because the market imbalance makes us get the big biases in income. I needed to clarify it: the clear relationship between the imbalance, the public service agency and the dilemmas we face. The centre party wants more publicity. It is a necessary measure once we have implemented this unfortunate EEA agreement, which means the freest possible movement of labour between countries with very different conditions, both in terms of pay and unemployment.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1282	The General Public Service Act is important, and it is important to publicise in different sectors in the situation of Norwegian working life – the situation in many practical professions. However, it was not a desired situation that someone came there to get a new tradition in Norway and to use new tools that one had not used before. It was purely a consequence of Norway signing the EEA Agreement and subjecting ourselves to EU rules and principles for the free movement of goods, services, capital and labour. That is why it is interesting – and I would also be pleased to say – as the representative Lundtigen also pointed out in his place, that at least one has a clear recognition from a broad majority of the committee, which says: ‘The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Workers’ Party, indicates that the legal background was the impact on the Norwegian labour market of the waiver of sovereignty through the conclusion of the Agreement on the European Economic Area.’.» [[EEAS]] I have to say it is a little surprising that the Workers' Party can not also participate in such recognition. On 11 August last year, Leif Sande, who also met as an alternate at Stortinget and met in the Labour and Social Committee, wrote on his blog: ‘The EEA Agreement opens up as known for the free flow of labour, and we will avoid that it leads to social dumping we need to have regulations in place to ensure that people come here to work at lower wages. We had such arrangements before the EEA, but they had to be amended because of the agreement.» That is precisely what we are subject to – both that we have become part of a system in which we are subject to the free movement of goods, capital, services and labour, and that Norwegian law, among others. Norwegian collective bargaining agreements and Norwegian labour law are subject to EU decisions in Norway — which means that we are in the current situation, where there is a need to extend public service in new areas as well. There is also a need to simplify documentation requirements and to publicise in new industries due to the practical reality of the situation in Norway. But, of course, it would have been reasonable if the majority of the population had been willing to go in a different direction, instead of having a working life in Norway where this is necessary. It is by helping to regulate labour immigration from the EEA territory, and it is making changes to the EEA Agreement and getting Norwegian rules in the driver’s seat again.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1303	Just to clear up what some obviously believe they have a case going on, namely the view of the EEA Agreement: there may be a basis for recalling the very representative proposal on which we, the promoter of the proposal, wrote: ‘The possibility of publicising tariff agreements was introduced in connection with Norway’s accession to the EEA in 1994, in view of concerns about the effects of labour immigration on the Norwegian labour market. However, it was more than ten years before the law was used for the first time. This occurred in 2004, the same year that a further 10 countries became members of the EU.’ So those who are trying to make a case out of something that is not a matter can just settle down: of course, it was the recognition of how the EEA Agreement, but also the inclusion of several new countries in the EU, could affect Norwegian employment, clearly the basis for the establishment of the Public Service Institute. But that is what is said in the note that the majority parties themselves have to answer for why they are involved, namely that it is a premise that we have implemented a waiver of sovereignty to the European Union in the field of working life. We believe that this is a wrong premise, and that is why we are not included in that comment. Otherwise, it is not that one does not have a comment, necessarily means that one disagrees directly, but we are in the basic premise here, that on labour matters, any sovereignty should have been transferred to the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1317	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1333	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1342	I would like to start by thanking the proposer for raising the case and for giving the Storting the opportunity to discuss a topic that concerns – in the case of franchises – very many workers, but which also gives us the opportunity to touch on large parts of Norwegian working life, and how to ensure a clean relationship between the employer and the employee. There we see that new actors are constantly coming on the road trying to erase these issues, and that, in the long term – if this happens – can challenge something fundamental in Norwegian working life. We see a development in which the principle that we have been accustomed to in Norwegian working life, namely that the person who is the head of the workplace, is also the one that you as a worker and that you are employed to, is something that is gradually being challenged. In France, much of this power has moved up to the group centrally, making it difficult for employees to provide their demands and needs. The store manager – the franchisee – also ends up in a slump because it is the parent company that largely defines everything about price levels, opening hours, pay and working conditions, while it is the one against which employees promote their claims. What is the driving force behind so many actors now organizing their operations within franchise? Well, it's obvious: you make a lot of money on it, and you're left with almost no responsibility, either to the shops or to the employees. We want to strengthen the position of franchisees in order to improve the follow-up to the assessment of the establishment of activities, but also to improve the rights to obligations arising from the operation of employees. We want stronger commitments for franchisors in terms of what happens to employees' wages if the company goes out of business, so that employees don't get stuck in the hands, which we unfortunately see in too many cases. We hear examples of people who have fallen into debt victims as a result of having concluded agreements that are highly binding, without any rights whatsoever, and we believe that the proposal that is now underpinned should give the opportunity to clean up materially in that area. It is not just about franchising, but it is about grips that some employers are now doing to get away with the responsibilities of employers. The proposals – which I am referring to here – will mean that you get a clean-up, better rights and that you get a review of this whole area.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1363	The representative of Arild Grande has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1368	The term ‘clearance action in Norwegian working life’ has been frequently mentioned by representatives of the Workers’ Party during the last days, and in reality it is a rhetorical wrap-up of a targeted attack on Norwegian business. We have now seen it in the industry by industry this fall: legal and serious care establishments that provide quality services are satisfied with, are labeled as ‘welfare profitors’. Temporary employment agencies and recruitment agencies that give people a foothold in the workplace must now limit the number of jobs they can offer. And today, it's the franchise model you want to live with, by making suggestions that would in practice make it very difficult for many self-employed people to continue. The proposals from the Workers' Party and Red in this matter would not have cleared up anything in particular, but on the contrary caused a lot of new chaos. For example, it involves: to fully powder the division of responsibilities between the franchisee and the franchisor and make it unclear who is the employer. Responsibility for health, the environment and safety at work would be powdered by these proposals, in the same way, and in practice this would probably lead to a strange ban on the franchise model. Because it is difficult to imagine that a groceries group, or a hotel group, would accept the responsibility of employers for the employees of each activity without having the legal responsibility for the operation of the same business. Thus, we are left with the situation where a self-employed person who wants to run his own store – whether it be a grocery store, restaurant, service salon or building house – has to choose between becoming a kind of rental in chain capitalism and building a business concept from the very bottom of itself, in competition with the big players. The first one is rarely going to be a good deal. The last one is likely to end in bankruptcy. But that's also the only thing that seems to be that franchisees are going to continue to have full responsibility for even this proposal, the risk of going bankrupt. You have to strip off the possibility of managing your business as you like, but you're left with all the financial risks. In the VG, this proposal was described as an attack on Rema-Reitan. No, this is primarily an attack on local merchants and on self-employed people throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1380	It is a rather strange proposal – and not least the argument behind it – that we have to deal with today. Because it is impossible to create an A4 template for how all traders operate their business, as the diversity of services and goods created by Norwegian companies is enormous. The same applies to the size of the enterprise and the kind of situation it is in. That's why we in the law have several different types of organization and forms of operation that business can choose from, in order to find the model that best suits the individual enterprise and workplace. Franchise is a well-known concept that has worked for many, and allows smaller buyers to benefit from well-known brand names – concepts – and also like joint purchases. This allows more people to start their own business and contribute to value creation and job creation. For employees, franchises can also be a good model, as they get a closeness to their employer or merchant. And I think it's strange that the opposition here today thinks it's better that there's a large group in Oslo or abroad to decide, rather than that it's the local merchant, for example. in Ashim. I'm afraid that when the opposition, and especially the Workers' Party, joins Red today, it helps to create further obstacles for Norwegian business, which will not be a good thing for Norwegian workers. For Norwegian workers, they often say that they appreciate the proximity between the employee and the employer, but they obviously want to destroy the opposition today. Another outcome of this fight against franchising is that local merchants are increasingly locked to the franchisor and are less able to replace a competing franchisor if the conditions are not good enough. The fact that the opposition today wants to move more power to the big franchisors at the expense of the local merchant in Halden is incomprehensible to me. I am pleased that the Christian People's Party, together with the government parties today, is voting against these proposals and is rather promoting a separate proposal to acquire more knowledge before any adjustments should be made. And as I have pointed out several times: I think it is very special that the Workers' Party wants to create a greater distance between the employer and the employee, when we know that the proximity between the employer and the employee is the best for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1393	I would like to thank the representative, Mr Moxnes, for submitting this proposal. It is a pointed heading: «Safer employment of franchisees and employees in franchisees». It has the full support of the Center Party. Franchise is extensive, and that's important. It is estimated that 120 000 employees are affected here, and what is central is power relations. It's the relationship of power between the franchisee and the franchisee. So the franchisee is the one who used to be a merchant, and who now basically gets everything organized – far from the old merchant's role. So, it's the franchisee – the merchant – versus the big company that's the franchisee. It's the relationship of power between these two we're here discussing. It is the relationship of power in which the employees of the franchisee are in when such are the circumstances, it is also the power relationship in which the suppliers of products to the franchisee stand, and there are conditions that affect very large parts of Norwegian business and working life. The representative Tuning Riise says that the proposals mean that a franchise should be put to life. No, the Center Party isn't in on it. We are aware of the need for legal regulation. And I would like to stress that it should be in the interest of the serious franchisors to get legislation. Because if you get legislation and tidy conditions, maritime society's understanding of the whole franchise model will be robust and strong. If you don't have a temperament in power, the seamly franchise model will come under an ever stronger bombardment, because that's something that challenges the whole queerness of Norway. The centre party is on proposal No. 7, and I'll deal with that proposal. It calls on the government to start legal work on regulating franchises as an organisational form, which will also lead to clarification of the franchisee’s responsibilities and, ultimately, to strengthen the franchisee’s rights, and I would like to stress the latter: strengthen the franchisee’s rights. This also strengthens the staff of the franchisee, because the framework for the whole business is improving. If proposal No 7 not to be given a majority, the Central Party shall vote subsidiaryly for the proposals of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1404	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1409	The debate on the rights of the franchisee is interesting, because no one really knows what a franchisee is. Is it really an independent merchant or a store manager? Is it an added item at the franchise dealer, or is it an employer – or a little bit both? Franchises contracts vary between concepts, and in some concepts franchises are far more freer than in others. Today, franchises are not regulated as an organisational form, and it creates great variations. Although this is not a new form of organisation, we don't know much about it. We know, for example, not how many franchise units exist in Norway, and what contracts are entered into at what price. Even a franchisee in REMA 1000 will have difficulty obtaining this information because the company is not obliged to provide information to them, and the different shops are not considered members of a group. Although all Deli de Luca stores in Oslo look exactly the same, they have little in common about it. The contracts are concluded individually, the follow-up varies, the franchisee is responsible for the store, while the franchisee only sells the concept and makes money on it. This creates a power imbalance between the parties to the franchise contracts. We have heard of several cases of franchisee who are sent goods to them that they have not ordered, at a price they cannot negotiate, because the franchisee has only determined this. This means that the store manager must rent a local to have storage space for goods they have not ordered. Worse, we have from Sister Grene, where a franchiser for over ten years has built three franchise dealer stores, as shown in the Class Battle today. For each store it was created, the terms of the contract were worse. After raising millions in private loans, it wasn't an option to break the contract, even if the terms were worse. Finally, she had managed to produce three stores that all made surplus. After years of hard work, private debt and indebtedness, she had done it. Then Sisterne Grene found it too good to cancel the contract and forced the store back to the price of shame. Do not want to be compensated for the cache either. Such franchise contracts are possible today. We therefore need to strengthen the rights of those who take this risk and do the work of building up the franchise concept.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1422	Our country is built on a undergrowth of small and medium-sized jobs. We need a lot of people who can drive themselves in order for the wheels in the welfare state to go around. But it's not going to come from that we still have a long way to go until it's easy to be a founder. One main challenge is that being self-employed requires one to be able to do much more than a real burn for. Reports and paper mills can take the breath and motivation from someone else. In addition, there are financial thresholds to be met. Franchise is a good solution for many. One has the daily responsibility for those added and for the store, the café, the hairdressing salon or whatever it is, and one can focus more on operations and less on bureaucracy. The concept has been developed and tested. The proposal that Red has presented to the Stortinget is well-intentioned, but it lands incorrectly. The imposition of registration obligations on franchisees in the Brønn Island Health Register is not the right medicine if the aim is to create more jobs and make it easier for more people to enter the labour market. Adding such an obligation gives more bureaucracy, and a lot of franchisees may have just chosen this form to let go of all the extra work that comes from starting something completely from the bottom of it. There will be several hours behind the office desk for these, and it will go against my stomach. Franchisemakers do the best and create the most values by being outside of their customers and colleagues. I am also concerned that demanding a shared employer responsibility between franchisee and franchisee givers will mean more ambiguity and once again more bureaucracy. It's a good idea that the responsibility lies with the person who was actually assigned, usually the franchisee, who knows the business, the others added, and knows what needs to be done. Otherwise, there is already a possibility of sharing responsibilities between employers, after a concrete assessment. So a new law proposed would be unnecessary. The left is, of course, for a clean and serious working life. We are therefore also voting in favour of the proposal by the Christian People's Party, which aims to look at the specificities of organisations such as franchises, groups and the like, with a focus on employers' responsibility and the rights of the employee. At the same time, we are working with those who drive for themselves, including the franchisee.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1438	I can support many of the assessments made by the representative from the Left in a very good way now, with the consent of a matter that the last weeks have rather had the effect of dissenting. Perhaps I should also add that several of the proposals that we are going to vote on today have been evaluated by varying governments and varying numbers, without any of them. What I think is the basis for a closer look at the organisational form of franchises and the like, is that even if there's not a new phenomenon, it's a scale that's increased a lot. The Committee itself points out in its comments that in 2017 it included the addition of 120,000 organisational forms. That means 4.5 pst. of all employees and that there is an increase of 50 pst. from 2007. 2007 is also the last year that I have found that a research into the impact of this type of organisation on working life. A 2014 Fafo report quotes the findings of Trade and Office in 2007. Authors write: ‘One of the main problems with franchises is that the form of organisation seems to weaken the possibility of effective professional mobility. As a result, one in franchise could expect to find cooperation between parties characterised by a lack of organisation, a lack of rights. Instead, we found that they had confidence elected to the store we visited, and a cooperation that marked little differences in power, probably because they had experienced little conflict between the employer and the employee who was dealing with the fight for rights." Regardless of all these elements, I think that this is the basis for our need for a better basis of decision, and for a need for more knowledge of this form of organization. It is a positive development when more people get a job and more locals can start shops and make sure that they are employed and valued. But there are some challenges when they're in an organisational form that's knitting. It might be a good idea to have a better knowledge base. Therefore, I will address the proposal to which I referred, from the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Left and the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1454	The representative Tore Storehaug has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1459	I would first like to thank the case rapporteur – Arild Grande of the Workers’ Party – the Senterpartiet and SV for the good committee reading of the Red’s proposals. Today we are voting on proposals relating to more than 100 000 employees in the service industry. Red will give those who work in franchises, such as REMA and McDonald’s, the right to negotiate with their real employer. It is essential to improve the working conditions of a large low-wage group in Norway, and it is time for jamming. Those who do the job in franchise companies do not have the same rights as other employees. A collective agreement in a franchise store only confers rights to those who run the individual store. So employees get no influence over REMA centrally, where almost all important decisions are made. In this way, the value of the collective bargaining agreement is eroded and the real owner is relieved of the obligation to sit at the negotiating table. When the owners choose to organise the enterprise as a franchise company, they organise in practice away from the Norwegian model and the tripartite cooperation. We think that's unsustainable, and we therefore demand that the employees get real participation. So the Right has attacked our proposal. That's a good sign. The representative Nordby Lunde claims that there is an attack on the companies. But what the right defender is part of the business life that has it as a business model to drive so that the trade movement is kept away and the wages are kept down. It's time, we think, for franchisors to be subject to the same rules as the rest of business. Then the franchisee must have their rights strengthened. Many of them take unreasonable risks by pushing them to open more shops, and they risk that the franchisee unilaterally changes or cancels the contract with them. Today, the government parties and the Christian People's Party form a majority for an investigation. I'm glad that at least there's going to be an investigation based on our proposal, but this also means postponing a completely necessary clean-up in the industry. It is asked – we will now see – whether the government will actually come back with concrete proposals for changes. Franchise is basically an American business model that fundamentally violates the Norwegian model, where the trade movement has an important place. Franchises are growing rapidly in Norway, and it is time that Stortinget regulates these establishments in the same way as the rest of Norwegian labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1476	The government wants orderly conditions and an organised working life that provide a good basis for participation and cooperation. This is the cross-political agreement. However, I do not think there is a need to introduce shared employer responsibility into franchise relations. In most cases, the concept of employers and the case law of the Employment Environment Act is decisive as to where the real decision-making authority is located. Under the law in force, there is also an opening for employers' liability to be placed with more people after a specific assessment if there is a specific basis for doing so, e.g.: where several have actually acted as employers and performed employer functions. Today's system provides flexibility, in my view, to meet different kinds of organization in the workplace. Proposals are also made for measures to ensure staff representation in the governing bodies of the franchisor. The right of representation in the governing bodies of a company is initially based on the existence of an employment relationship. It provides a link to and valuable knowledge of the conditions of the business. This is exactly what makes it natural with the right to governance. Representation in the governing bodies of companies other than those in which one is employed may lead to conflicts of interest. I do not think there is any reason to introduce such rules. Active and systematic work on HMS in enterprises is the key to a good working environment. I believe that the main focus must still be on individual employers' individual responsibilities for the working environment in their own activities. Furthermore, it is important that the responsibility for HMS is not powdered but that it is clearly placed. Norwegian enterprises already have registration obligations in the Business Register. This, and several of the other proposals, would, in the government's view, imply an increased obligation to register and report on franchise activities and thus increase economic and administrative burdens on business. The government has the aim of simplification and less bureaucracy. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is currently researching and developing knowledge of and developing forms of association in the labour market. This could include how both workers and self-employed people are linked to the labour market. Knowledge needs on forms of association and activity organisation are assessed in this context. Now, in the autumn, a major research work on this is coming on my table, and of course I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1491	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1496	I see the proposal from the plural – Right, the Progress Party, the Left and the Christian People’s Party – to deal with the scale and characteristics of organisations such as franchises, among others. with a focus on employer responsibility and the rights of employees. Then my question is: when the proposal also comes from the party to the Council of State, is there in any way a recognition that this model of organisation has problematic aspects for franchisees and employees?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1503	After all, the conditions surrounding franchises have been assessed in several rounds of governments, both by the Bondevik II Government and by the Stoltenberg Government, where there has also been no need to make changes, and that the legislation has been well and flexible enough as it is. This isn't legal. It's a piece of legislation that's in force. I register that Stortinget now wants a closer investigation. It will probably be mainly the Ministry of Economic Affairs that will be in charge of it. We will, of course, follow what the Storting has decided. If there is a desire for a closer investigation about this, the government will, of course, do that investigation and possibly come back to Stortinget. But essentially, we believe that the legislation that is in place today is good and comprehensive. It facilitates increased business activity in an unbureaucratic and good manner, while at the same time the normal labour law rules also apply to those within this form of contract.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1510	I thank you for the answer, but I'm still a little bit questioning about what such an arrangement will take into account that is not already covered by the group selection, the business law selection and the co-destination selection. Some of these selections also have recommended changes. My question is: when one is going to start this kind of arrangement - what does the Council of State see that such an arrangement will bring about new things and new information related to the franchise model and the rights of employees?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1517	It is quite right that this has been assessed in several rounds by several governments, and that has also been the background for us to believe that there has not been a need to make the changes that the draft representative addresses and that the Tajik party has made several proposals. We mean what is, is opaque. But it's clear that when the Storting decides we're going to do a new investigation to increase the knowledge base, we have to base it and, of course, do what the Storing has asked us to do. It will then be seen whether a new study will produce the same results as those samples, or whether conclusions will be drawn other than those previously made. I can't stand here and shoot. In that case, it remains to be seen from the investigation that will follow.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1524	Then we look forward to that distribution. However, my question is: when one sees that there has been a fairly clear development associated with franchising - a clear growth of almost 50 pst. over the last ten years – what does the Council of State believe is the reason for the clear growth? What makes this such an attractive addition form, in the opinion of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1529	I think it's also attractive to establish ourselves in this way, that is, that anyone who wants to set up a business, and who wants to start for themselves, set up jobs in their local environment, is given the opportunity to do so within an established concept with all the benefits that it has after all in terms of brand construction, etc. So I'm going to think that there's probably an important reason, that there's a positive and easy way of establishing itself in the market, and that it's also been desirable for those who want to establish themselves. The impression is that this is a form that is not covered by a legislative or regulatory framework. It is – it is a regulation today. Completely general contract law rules apply. The agreements must, of course, also comply with the contract law, and the right to terminate the contracts if it turns out that these are not under the law, i.e. that the employer's liability is in fact different from what the contract might imply. So this isn't a illustrious room. There is legislation that regulates this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1537	In a letter to the Committee on 3 May, the Council of State wrote: ‘Such conditions must be included in any investigation into a franchisolov.’ I understand the answer from the Council of State so that she is not opposed to getting a law of her own, but that there are a number of issues that need to be investigated – and that is the point. The point on the part of the Centre Party is that the law applicable in general is not good enough for the particular features of franchise activities. My question is whether it is not in the interest of the franchisor that we get our own law, because thus one will be able to get more balanced power relationships between the parties. Does the Council agree or sympathize with such reasoning?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1549	What the individual franchisor had to think, I can't stand here and account for. I register that Stortinget wants you to have an investigation. Of course, we have to make sure of that. What we've been busy about by the government is helping business not to increase reporting obligations and more bureaucracy. We have been committed to simplifying business bureaucracy, precisely because we want business to be easier, and that job creation should be easier even in the districts. That has been our starting point, and we also believe that any new legislation, or amended legislation, must take account of the fact that business is not burdened more than it is today. Now we're going to figure out, look at the extent of this, and then we're going to have to get back to the Storing in an appropriate way. Many of the proposals contained in the proposal for a representative are subject to several departments, in particular the Ministry of Food and Fisheries and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, but also the Ministry of Finance, so we will have to come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1558	Franchise operations give the franchisee full control, but no legal liability for the employees of the franchisee. It gives employees little influence over their own working life. Each store is formally a separate company, but if a collective agreement is to be concluded or pay claims are to be made, it must be addressed to the individual store. And if that store goes bankrupt and the employees have outstanding pay, a new franchisee can take over and drive the store further, but without taking responsibility for the pay claims of those who worked in that store before. Thus, the franchisor has secured himself financially and organised himself away from the responsibility for paying outstanding wages. Is the Council of State sustainable with a model where the franchisor has very great advantages and at the same time has so little responsibility for those who work for the donor in the individual franchise businesses?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1565	Franchise is a form of agreement in which you enter into an established concept, where franchisee is responsible for both working hours, pay and opening hours — and in this way also the possibility to influence their own concept — and should also be an employer, in effect, for their employees. The fact that you have responsibilities for employers near the employees, I think it is an advantage that you do not pulverize the responsibility in any more places. If it is the case that a self-employment goes bankrupt, you have rights under salary requirements in the fund. This applies to franchisee recipients, such as all other self-employed enterprises, and so it should be. If an agreement goes too far – i.e. if the agreement makes the law too far – then the right can state that the agreement is invalid, and that has also happened. So it is fully possible to bring the case before the court if you believe that the agreement violates the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1572	The cord shift is over. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1579	As several of the Right’s representatives have said here today, the Labour Party will have a clean-up action in Norwegian working life, whether in terms of rental restrictions or that some of the country’s largest companies will organise themselves away from their employer’s responsibility. Today, there is a proposal that would clarify the responsibilities of the labour market. The franchise model has grown strongly and has some advantages, such as: lower barriers to becoming self-employed. However, I am surprised that the right-hand side is unable to see that this model has some challenges that have a negative impact on working life. I'll mention someone: Employer responsibility is left to local merchants or agency staff. Employees must negotiate with franchisees, which in reality have little or no influence on pay and working conditions. All risks are placed on the franchisee. The parent company can cancel the agreement without having any liability for the employees. The level of organisation is low when there is no real counterparty for the employees. This makes pay and working conditions worse. This applies not only to shops and kiosks, but also to airlines and more and more other industries, such as insurance and other financial services. We believe that employees should be able to promote pay claims to the parent company, not just to their local manager. We believe there is a need for more transparency and transparency about an organization that has grown enormously in recent years. These proposals have aroused resentment in the Right, which believes that our clean-up action in the world of work is an attack on business. No, our clean-up action is in support of workers and employers who want a safe and organised working life. For me, this fury is a little bit clever. One thing is to disagree with the proposal; another thing is totally ignoring the challenge of employers organizing away from employers' responsibilities. Without real counterparts for employees, there will be no organised working life, based on agreements and negotiations. I thought the Right wanted this and would acknowledge that there are some challenges with this form of organization. Even more strange was the reaction of the Progress Party, and I would quote the committee leader Wiborg of the VG: ‘How Norwegian companies choose to organise is not something we politicians should deal with as long as they comply with laws and regulations.’ I would like to inform you that in this room we have a certain influence on the laws and regulations that affect how Norwegian companies should organise themselves. On a case-by-case basis, it turns out who is working with the workers. The Right Party and the Advance Party will not be involved in a work-life clean-up action. A safe and organised working life is a competitive advantage for Norway, which increases productivity and value creation. This is why the Workers' Party will continue to propose labour-life policies that arouse resentment in the Right and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1617	Most of the arguments in the case have already been mentioned, but I would nevertheless like to emphasise a point that is very important for the Workers' Party in this matter: We want tidy conditions in Norwegian working life. The best basis for a clean working life is that people are organised, both on the employer and employee side. We do not ignore the fact that being a franchisee can be seen as positive for people who want to establish themselves as self-employed, but the medal has a backside. That's what we want to do, not just in the interests of the franchisee himself, but most of all in the interests of the employees, who have the right to be able to deal with an employer who is real and who can be treated like an employee and a trade union. Today's franchise system contains too many possibilities to misrepresent who performs the actual employer function. Then it becomes all the more difficult for employees' unions to know who to deal with. From the franchisee's point of view, it could be a dream situation. To the extent that employees in franchise activities are organised at all, they cannot relate together to one real employer. Instead, they are referred to dealing with the franchisee one by one, even if all are, in reality, grouped together. These include: The Joint Alliance has said: ‘The most important link is that workers have real influence over their working life through trade union work. This is not done in franchised companies, as working conditions are often set at the central level — where workers are denied representation. In other words, the franchise model is helping to break down the organized working life.’ According to the State Council itself, the main organisation of the company, Working, informs that the proportion of franchised shops is highest in the kiosk, petrol, service and groceries sectors – typically low-wage, typical women’s stores, without the highest level of organisation. This was the background for the red-green government, first in Meld. St. 29 for 2010–2011, Joint responsibility for a good and decent working life, and then in our third action plan for decent and serious working life and against social dumping in the spring of 2013, proposed to assess an expanded HMS responsibility in group and franchise activities. Then we lost the election, and then it got quiet. It is therefore positive that the matter is raised again. It is not entirely positive that the majority of the committee completely rejects the problem, but it is a small point of light, after all, that they have come up with better thoughts, at least partly, through their loose proposal, which they promote together with the Christian People's Party. Everyone says they want to build on good cooperation in the workplace. It is also appropriate to be willing to facilitate high levels of organisation, both on the labour market and on the employers' side.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1633	Either there is a major mismatch between intention and what is in the proposals here, or there is a major mismatch between stated and real intention. It is said that you want to strengthen the franchisee's position with the franchisor. The problem is that all the proposals now being promoted will actually contribute to the very opposite. Yes, we also see some challenges with the franchise model. Many agreements are so detailed that there is really very little room left for the franchisee to drive innovation in its business. That's why we're also involved in promoting the proposal that the Christian People's Party made, where we say we want to look at the franchisee's position vis-à-vis the franchisee. But how can the other proposals help to strengthen it by pulverising employer responsibility between franchisor and franchisee is very difficult to understand, for how to manage and operate your own store in a good way if you cannot manage your health, environment and safety at your own workplace at the same time and negotiate pay to your own employees? How will it strengthen the franchisee's position? The same applies to the proposal to ensure the representation of franchisors. There may be considerable conflicts of interest in managing businesses in which you are not employed. It is also a matter of having a law that gives the right of insight into the financial results of a competitor's business. How can it strengthen the position of the individual store manager towards the franchisor? The same applies to bureaucratic measures on registration obligations. And we heard it from the representative of Moxnes here, who said right away that he believes that employees of the individual REMA or McDonald’s store are actually employed at the REMA or McDonald’s group. In fact, it is to say that you do not want to have a self-employed person without having to build up a business concept from the bottom up and start competing with the big players. We in the Right want self-employed. We want employers who know the local conditions. We want a short way between the employer and the employee. That's why we agree with the proposal that the Christian People's Party took up from the pulpit, but we are against the other proposals that have been promoted, because they actually contribute to the very opposite of what has been the expressed intention of many of those who have been up here from the opposition side.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1644	The fact that we have a well-regulated labour market is not an argument against making changes. On the contrary, the Right is to change to preserve, and that means that we want to look at whether today's regulations meet tomorrow's challenges. We are willing to do so, including: together with the Christian People's Party, and support proposal No. Eight. But the Workers' Party's and Red's proposals change the whole premise of one of the most used business models. It is not a matter of a safe and responsible working life when proposers will oblige franchisors to indicate where other franchisee are located in a radius of 50 km from where the franchisee is to be established. I have to ask, what benefit would a person who runs a 7-Eleven on Grünerløkka have of information about the number of 7-Eleven kiosks between himself and a little bit past the Drammen? One would think it was a little bit more useful with an overview of competitors at Grünerløkka, as those who live there rarely go to the Drama to buy a sausage, but perhaps might be tempted to go straight across the road to Deli de Luca. Worse still, the proposal to lift and divide employer responsibility from the individual store or restaurant up to the franchisor. This pulverizes the responsibility for workers and undermines the franchisee's responsibilities under the Working Environment Act. The buyer in REMA is correct in a concept with recognizable brand names that give economies of scale, but I often see my local REMA buyer standing and stacking boxes with his employees. I do not think there is any doubt about who is responsible – and takes responsibility – there. It is strange that employees should have a better follow-up from the franchisor's head office than from the person responsible for the day-to-day operations, know local conditions and stand back with their employees for a day-to-day period. He is responsible for adapting the crew plan, recruitment and follow-up, as well as the purchase of goods and general store operations. The fact that the Workers' Party is now not just following, but going further than Red shows that the party has taken a good step to the left. When they attack franchises, they attack the merchants who stand on the floor and stack boxes with the employees. It's not cleaning up the world of work. That's messing it up. Norway has one of the best regulated working lives in the world. Last year's SSB figures show that nine out of ten employees are satisfied with their job. 91 pst. experience management support. According to the National Institute for Safety and Health at Work, nine out of ten workers report a high level of self-determination in working life and that this proportion has increased in recent years. When I hear the Workers' Party and Red talk together about a clean-up operation in such a well-regulated working life, it sounds like an orwellish novelty for tightening up, regulation and veto rights to the trade-union movement by industry. I fully agree with the Evening Post, which stated that providing jobs, including in franchises, is also to safeguard the rights of workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1657	It is so good that the representative Nordby Lunde uses the cover “news,” because it is quite obvious that they systematically incapacitate the Centre Party and SV’s position in this matter. Obviously, they're not scary enough for the right side. I don't know if it's a compliment or what it is, we can just bring it with us. Now at least the franchise model has many advantages. He has the advantage that it's a brand. It's clear that it also gives the franchisor the benefit of having this kind of model of organization, but our point is that it also has some very obvious disadvantages. Our proposal to amend the Work Environment Act so that it is no longer possible to organise itself away from Employer Responsibility is precisely about recognising these disadvantages. And that's part of the Labour Party's cleaning-up action in the world of work: we've contributed to tightening up tenants with other parties, and it's a fact that we've pushed changes in the cleaning industry when the government itself chose to drag its legs. And then we have proposed a strengthening of the system of general government, which was debated in the previous case. All of this has in common that it gives power back to ordinary people, and it creates clarity in inexorable conditions. Today's developments in the world of work are based on the premise of the strongest actors. What one often calls modern and flexible, turns out to be old-fashioned and quite rigid for the one that's been added. Then there are legal and regulatory changes that are necessary to strengthen the position of ordinary people. With our proposal today, people would gain more power over their own working day, and they would be able to more easily negotiate their own pay and working conditions, and they would get a boss who had not only a title but also had a more real responsibility and real opportunities to make the necessary changes. It is good for the employee, but it is also good for the franchisee, who also gets more influence. When the Right falls on something else, it is probably primarily because they lack a fundamental analysis of the power of the world of work today. They're making our proposals as an attack on business. I'd say that's quite polite. They also say – at least they said it to the VG – that they want a ‘NATO pact’ to protect themselves from what is a legitimate political debate. I would like to remind you that small differences and short distances from adding to leadership are a good thing for Norwegian business, which they know to appreciate, even though the Right and Advance Party do not.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1668	One would believe in part of the debate here that franchised companies are not subject to the same rules as all other limited liability companies in Norway, neither with regard to reporting obligations, behaviour, contracts nor the rights of employees and the obligations of employers. I think it is relatively special to accept a solution where one says that someone who is not responsible for paying the salary or responsible for the daily working conditions is responsible for negotiating the salary without being responsible for making sure that the salary can be paid. For it is not that workers in franchisees are not in close contact with their management, have no influence on their working conditions and have no freedom of organisation, as is the case with all others. In fact, there have been own conflicts and own legal cases linked to the very last, where the freedom of organisation has been established of course and clearly, and that franchise has had to deal with it. The same applies, as the Council of State gave examples, to other parts of this. It is also important in this case to recall that these are actually voluntary agreements concluded between voluntary parties. It seems today perhaps that there should be some kind of coercion at the conclusion of these agreements. It hasn't been. Then you can be happy with one thing: it seems that some representatives here for the first time discover that there are actually problems and challenges in Norwegian business when running a business. It actually happens that it's not going well, it's actually true that one goes bankrupt, and it's true that one doesn't necessarily manage to get a turnover that contributes to paying all the bills and comply with all the maturities. But it's not because it's franchises, it's because it's challenging to run a store or a kiosk or a gas station in a highly competitive market. That doesn't mean it's unreasonable, that means it's challenging. I believe that it is far better for both workers, for consumers and – not least – for those who run the individual store, that it is the individual buyer, instead of a remote investor, who gets to share in the profits. So I want to remind you that with the definition that is used here, one of the largest franchised companies in this country is Coop, that is, the cooperatives that are also organized as underlying cooperatives, one by one, something near a store in some context. These I'm assuming should be taken in the same way. But I don't see that this is an answer to a challenge that is actually present.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1684	It is often claimed by the Right People that there is a contrast between good and proper pay and working conditions and running business in a healthy and good way. There's nothing but old-fashioned right-wing policy. Indeed, any research on Norwegian labour market shows the exact opposite, namely that organised high-level jobs, with a good relationship between employees and employers, where there is a high degree of fixed employment, are the most successful parts of the labour market, which have the most innovative capacity, which have productivity. So those who claim that there is a contradiction between good rights, proper relationships and good business are shamefully wrong. And it is recognised by the government in its government statement that an organised working life is a competitive advantage for Norway. We have tried to take it seriously and have made a number of proposals in recent times that could contribute to both a higher level of organisation, a more organised working life, a clearer legislative premise in terms of what it means to be an employer, and what it means to be an employee, but the government rejects all proposals. It either shows that they are not serious about what they are saying, or that they are actively going in to weaken a competitive advantage for Norway, which would be very special. I think the fine wording in the government statement is only empty words. So it's claimed that this is an attack on the franchise model. It's not at all. The franchise model is very good in many ways, in terms of getting help in establishing, advertising, getting into a concept that is well-known. So in many ways it works well. What we want is that it should be clearly stated in the law that the person who has the right to control the employees, the person who defines wages, working hours and such things, should also have an employer's responsibility. It should not be that it is particularly demanding for the Storting to go in for. But it's obvious, because the Right Party and the Advance Party are going in a different direction. It shows where the loyalty of the Right Party and the Advance Party lies. It is not with Norwegian workers who want good, safe and predictable working conditions. Last week we saw that the government parties were running the crew industry's errand. Now the employers who want to organize themselves away from their employer's responsibility run their errand, and I hope a lot of Norwegian workers follow this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1695	I see it as necessary to take the floor to counter any of the things that the representative Tonning Riise is talking about, because it doesn't match reality, much of what he says. The representative claims that it is important for employers to have a self-governing right over the HMS regime in the company. You don't think that is right. In very many of the major franchise chains in Norway, the franchisor makes the HMS book that the franchisee is obliged to follow and have as its rules of business. That's how it is. In REMA 1000, for example, the chain to the holder says that he or she has too much payroll of turnover, and thus ‘pusher’ them out more merchants and added new ones to be able to reduce the payroll. So the representative Toning Riise claims that we don't want to be self-employed with the suggestions we have. That's not true. We want to protect the franchisee. So he also mentions that franchisees have to be able to start their own store to compete with the other big businesses. Neither is it, for the contracts of, for example, REMA 1000 and the Sisters Grene led complete loyalty to the chain a drive below. No one starts a REMA 1000 store to compete with the rest of the REMA 1000.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1706	I register the crocodile tears from both the Progress Party and the Right for these local merchants who are just as well served with today's franchise model. Then it is strange that it is the franchisors who are enthroned at the top of the list of Norway's absolute, desperate richest, not the franchisees. So to some people, this model is obviously very good. For those who do the job, i.e. the employees of franchise companies, among the lowest wages in Norway. Then maybe some bells should call the Progress Party and the Right, when these are the actual conditions. We have been able to read in today's class struggle about a franchisee, Heidi Leite, who has started up with the Sisters Grene and run a store for them for 12 years in Norway – a Danish concept. She has experienced the back of the medal as a franchisee. So after she has worked and worn out for many years, the franchisor cancels the contract with two years' notice, but without reason and without compensation. Then Heidi Leite will be left with several millions in debt and fear that both the house and the cabin will join the debt vacuum, as well as the workplace of their own and about 30 employees. This local merchant, to use the term of the Advance Party and Right Concept, Heidi Leite, says the following: ‘The franchise scheme is medieval and undemocratic. The chain owner has no obligations and just sits in and quivers in.» She herself has worked 70-hour weeks as a franchisee, with office work on weekends. The end of the visa is that she has a large private debt of about five million. kr, for goods which have not been sold, as she was charged by the franchisor, while the franchisor thus foams the cream of this arrangement. If it was the case that the bourgeois cared very much about the local merchants, they should at least look at the reality and how the franchise model works for the franchisee, who stands without rights, but in reality takes full risk and can experience at any time that the franchisee only cancels the whole contract, and then stands on a bare ground, but with responsibility for what might be owed to the company.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1722	What I hear from the debate suggests that there are many who do not necessarily know how Norwegian business works, and at least not the franchise industry. The undersigned at least has the job in a franchise company. I know well what it was like to be employed, that you had the same rights that you have in other businesses, and that it was neat and good purpose. What I suspect is the problem, especially for the Workers' Party, is that not all Norwegian workers are employed in large companies, where it is the major national trade unions that govern and are party. They clearly have problems with Norwegian business being largely made up of small and medium-sized enterprises, where there is actually a good relationship between the employer and the employee and which solves many of the challenges they face on a daily basis. I have to say, I think this is very special, and if you read the settings from the committee, you can see that the Workers' Party is now more closely linked than ever to the Red Party. And on the other hand, when the Workers' Party is about to make proposals, they have to say in writing that it is in agreement with the Red Party. So that's the goal of the Workers' Party. Instead of addressing the real challenges of Norwegian working life, the Labour Party wants to pursue what I would call symbolism policy, which could put Norwegian jobs at risk. The representative Moxnes spoke of the franchisors being too powerful and taking too much of the cake. Nevertheless, the representative promotes Moxnes and Red along with others. The Workers' Party proposes to give even more power and influence to the franchisors at the expense of the local merchant. That policy is not linked and it is not a good thing. What I want to challenge the representatives of the Workers' Party in particular to answer is the one question that I had in place, and that they do not want to answer. That is how a greater distance between the employer and the employee is a good one, instead of the employer being the local merchant.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1733	As an old store manager, I couldn't wait to go up and comment a little on this matter, because my first meeting with the workplace was actually as a shop worker in a Rimi store. I worked in a second generation store, so we didn't call it Rimi, we called it Reinhardt. And Reinhardt, my boss, had been driving for 30 years, but chose to buy into a franchise concept that Rimi had in the last few years, to get the benefits that were there. As a 20-year-old, I received an offer to take over the business. At that time, I did not have the opportunity to buy in, but I was employed as a branch manager. We were quite a few store managers who were running the branch, most of the drive franchise. But we all met regularly at collections, were equivalent there and discussed personnel challenges and challenges with goods we got in our shelves, and we couldn't always sell. We had full responsibility for all of our employees, in the same way as our colleagues, whether it was franchise or branch. I didn't just have a title, I was a proud store manager of 20 years. I was responsible for the salaries and staff of my employees. In the same way, I had it as an intermediary in ASKO. There I had the responsibility for salary and staff and the opportunity to participate in the leadership group. It's a group, but I was the leader of function. One can argue in the same way for all businesses, because there is a distance between employees and managers when businesses grow up. That's why we have team leaders, store managers and middle managers to ensure good and close management. As my chief reminder was to have an open office door and always give feedback on enquiries I received. Good management is about proximity. Mother Teresa said it so well once she was going to give talks about good management: "Know your employee," she said. And then she went down and sat down, in a crowded hall. To know his employee, I would say that the franchisee do.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1742	The representative Kristian Toning Riise has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1747	You can't organise yourself away from an employer's responsibility you don't have. The employer is responsible for the franchisee. I can give an example from Scandic. They say that if this proposal is adopted today, they must cease their franchise activities because they cannot take legal responsibility for any business they cannot affect beyond the franchise agreement. This means that the hotels that are franchisees today will lose their link. The cost of supplies for these hotels will increase, and the large loser will be a marginal hotel, which will have a significant risk of closure of corner stone holdings. So it can, for example. The representative Lundteg thinks about when to vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1752	The last one there, of course, is just the kind of horror propaganda that the right-hand side is trying to do, saying that there's going to be a contradiction between having neat, proper working conditions and running effective business. There are very many actors in Norway today who do very well business and at the same time take on their responsibilities towards employees. It is claimed that when you are a franchisor, you have no influence whatsoever, and therefore you cannot take responsibility for the employees – well, it is precisely because you have turned away from the obligations that it normally implies to be an employer. Our proposal is about the fact that anyone who reserves the right to sit with power over Norwegian workers must also take responsibility. If you don't want to, I think you're making progress in the world of work that we don't want. This is not just about the daily food industry, it is about a number of sectors of Norwegian working life where employers are trying to get away from their obligations. The legal case in which Norwegian has now ended, in the Supreme Court, is about the same thing: you want to get rid of the employer's responsibility and push employees into a recruitment agency, and then hire them. We see it in the platform economy, where employees don't know who to turn to, even if the boss defines attendance time, working hours, working conditions, pay conditions, etc. - when the boss is an app. So what we see both within the franchise world, within established businesses that we may have thought were prudent for this development, and perhaps especially among the new actors in Norwegian working life, is that we have to take a clean-up also considering what it means to be an employer, and the obligations it entails. Finally, I would like to say that the Labour Party will subsidize proposal No. 8, from the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Advance Party and the Left, if our proposals do not get a majority. We believe that this is not much other than a postponement of the whole problem, but at the same time, if a large majority of the government gives the message to the government that one should explain what the landscape looks like, it can help bring the matter forward a few steps – and hopefully closer to a situation where we can get a real discussion about how we can get cleaned up, so that Norwegian workers can also in the future know who their boss is.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1763	The representative of Grande says that there is no contradiction between good decent pay and good business. But we fully agree with that, and that's exactly our point. It is the Workers' Party that makes proposals on proposals such as whether companies operate without decent remuneration in order to run a good business. That's where the horror propaganda lies, and it seems like the Workers' Party in that case is no longer in contact with the private business that creates values in this country. I have shown several recent reports that nine out of ten workers are satisfied with the job, feel that they have a good impact on their own job, and that they are listened to by the management. In this labour market, the Workers' Party, together with Red, must enter and tighten up in industry by industry. That is why I believe that business needs to wake up and realize that this is an organized attack on a mainly well-organised and decent working life. I also believe that business needs to wake up to the point where they realize that an attack on you is an attack on everyone. There may be challenges in the franchise model, and someone here has pointed to examples of it. However, the government has already reduced research work to cover different forms of association in the labour market and is now coming to the harvest. So the Right is to change to preserve the good conditions that we have in Norwegian working life – this in order to make adjustments if necessary, not radically change the assumptions of some business models overnight, as the Labour Party and Red will. The right is followed up by the employer in order to make adjustments to ensure both the rights of employees on the one hand and the framework conditions for business on the other. It must be possible to value in Norway, otherwise workers do not have the right to do so because they no longer have a job. But I think it's good for all of us that the Workers' Party shows their true face, where they want regulations, restrictions and veto rights to trade unions in a labour market where nine out of ten Nordics are satisfied. The Workers' Party's proposal would have powdered the employer's responsibility between the employee and the employer. That's one of the reasons why this particular proposal, as far as the franchise model is concerned, is bad, and we're not voting in favour. I believe that this is, in general, a good debate, between the Labour Party and the Right, which clarifies some fronts in the debate for the future – where the Right understands both business and value creation in Norway and wants safe and good jobs, while the Workers' Party primarily works to grant veto rights to trade unions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1778	The representative Bears Moxnes has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1783	There was a gruesome ointment from Nordby Lunde we were served – and it was a bit typical that you go up in rhetoric and maybe down a little bit in substance and content. The fact is that several parties on the left side of the Stortinget are trying to clean up what is unprofessional in working life. It is a pleasure for all those on the employer's side who pay their taxes, who respect trade unions and who operate properly. These are the ones that are out of competition by the unprofessionals, who are served with a working life of few organized, where there are unjust relationships, and where competition can be won through unclean competition, rather than competing under equivalent conditions. If the Right cares about the serious actors, the Right should vote for the proposals we are promoting in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1791	I am glad that the Workers' Party's invitation to an action to clean up Norwegian working life has been noticed – this may have been mentioned several times by Right-wing representatives than by the Workers' Party's own representatives in this debate. It shows that at least no house has passed that we want such a clean-up operation. We had a round last week about renting, where the Stortinget – while the government was sitting completely passive – made a strong tightening of access to hired labour. It is about seeing that lower levels of organisation and increased use of rentals lead to lower production. This leads to a weakening of innovation, leading to unprofessional gains in many contexts at the expense of serious ones. We can't live with that, obviously right? The issue of cleaning – as we discussed earlier today – is much the same, that large parts of an important market are black, and that we want a clean-up to ensure that there are good pay and working conditions for those working in the sector, but that we also get the unprofessional players off the track. The same applies to employers: to make it clear that we want a working life where Norwegian workers can have a boss to deal with. We don't want a development where this is powdered and where the boundary rises become unclear. In all these three areas, the Right says that there are no problems, everything is very well, people are largely satisfied. Yes, in the workplaces in Norway today, people are largely satisfied, but we see developments in Norwegian working life and in international working life against which we warn. That is why we are going to continue the fight for proper and serious pay and working conditions, for permanent jobs and for a safe and fair working life. We don't give in until ten out of ten is satisfied.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1804	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1820	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines of reply be given to the members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1829	This proposal was presented by the representative of Mr Björn Moxnes. The proposal has helped to highlight to the Committee the issue of the authority of long-term and trade unions in terms of working time. The regulation that this is about opens up for the regulation of guards that go through several consecutive days – i.e. an exception to the normal rule of Norwegian working life, where the parties negotiate until rotation and working hours. This rule of participation was, when it was created, intended ruscollectives, which at the time there were many more of them than it does today. Today's residents are largely bounded by the Sollia collective, the Hiimsmo collective and the Bufeta's ownership of the Schirfheim collective. At these institutions, they also have the opportunity to have their family there, except for the Schirfheim collective, where the parties have negotiated a working time agreement with a tour where they are added 15 days to work, followed by 12 days off. We in SV think this is okay, as long as there is agreement between the social partners about it. An exception rule was applicable to membership regulations, etc. have been open to private operators before e.g. child protection and user-controlled personal assistance may benefit from special rules which, at the other end, give large-scale profits to the owners of the enterprise. This does not look good when they add a pressed situation to the job, where selection and exhaustion are a constant situation. Several of the most demanding young people in the care of children are currently placed with private actors who use a three- and four-day consecutive tour, which is unresponsive to trade unions. SV understands that the child-restraints prefer an institution where they are added for a long time to work. But this can't go on chords with the added health. It must be defended and approved by the trade unions, as all other working time arrangements in Norway are. In addition, I would like to point out that the reports on cohabitation have, to a large extent, focused on all institutions that add jobs for several days in a stretch – not just the actors we call welfare professionals, where they are engaged in very stressful situations over a long period of time, and have far worse wages than in the corresponding settings in Bufetat. I would also like to inform you that we in SV subtract proposal No. 9 and make the other suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1844	The representative, Solfrid Lerbreck, has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1849	The Labour Party opens this debate as we concluded the previous one: we want a clean-up in Norwegian working life. We have shown this through a number of proposals in the Storting with a view to combating social dumping, limiting rents, saying no to zero-hour contracts, strengthening the clean-up recognition system and improving the public service system, to mention something. The rule of law is actually a foreign element in Norwegian working life. The Working Environment Act regulates people's working hours, based on workers' health and well-being. The general rule in Norwegian working life is that the parties negotiate working time and that trade unions with the right to set up jobs have the power to agree on working time which goes beyond the provisions of the Environmental Protection Act. The trade union movement on its side indicates that they are up to 100 pst. cases authorise the fixing of tariffs for alternative forms of work. In other words, what is intended to be achieved by the co-livery regulation is likely to be achieved through agreements which, in a much better way, ensure a thorough assessment and evaluation of health, environmental and safety requirements on a case-by-case basis. The trade union movement indicates that they have seen more than enough disadvantages in terms of working time, lack of compensatory rest and lack of compensation for demanding working time arrangements provided for in the regulations. The Council of State itself says that there are challenges related to the understanding and practice of the legislation, which should be followed closely. We therefore sympathise with the Red proposal to reverse the extension of the scope of the co-livery regulation. In the same direction, there is an increase in the degree of organisation of the employer, which may facilitate the conclusion of agreements with the employee organisations. In addition, the regulation has been made permanent, but it was intended to be a temporary regulation in its time, precisely because it violates the basic provisions of the Working Environment Act and the cooperation of the parties on non-compliance with the protection provisions of the law. However, when we hesitate, it's because we want to get important answers on the table first. We want a more thorough assessment of the impact for some vulnerable users who need stability and a limited number of caregivers to deal with. There are also reports showing that both users and many employees are satisfied. However, what the reports say less about is whether the same user and employee satisfaction could have been achieved by using the Working Environment Act instead of a separate regulation. We therefore want the notified evaluation faster than it might indicate that the government has thought. We want an annual evaluation of the participation scheme – such as for permits under the Environmental Protection Act – figures on the table above the number of participants and an answer to why agreements with trade unions and permits from the Labour Inspectorate can not work as well. I will deal with the proposals that the Workers' Party is behind. In addition, I would like to state that the Workers' Party supports the proposal of the Centre Party No. 6 and the two loose proposals from Red, No. 13 and 14, all three of which are very similar to our own.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1862	The representative Lise Christoffersen has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1867	This proposal goes into the sequence of things we've been served from the parties on the left-hand side of this spring, where the goal is to make our working life even more rigid. Behind is apparently a bottomless belief that central governance can solve any problem. In this case, we see that this approach applies even in the case of well-founded exceptions to the general working time rules of the law, precisely to protect some of the groups in our society that need it most. Participation tours were made to provide particularly vulnerable users at institutions with the security and stability they need in everyday life. The scheme shall only be used in special cases, but is important for those concerned. Being able to deal with the same caregiver throughout the day is important to ensure continuity and secure frameworks in everyday life. There will be more stable adult contact and fewer interruptions and staff changes, which may also be important for the provision of treatment. In addition, it turns out that this is a plan that also well favours employees. When the participation scheme was evaluated by Fafo in 2015, one found that employees are mainly satisfied with long-term and part-time delivery arrangements. It is often seen as favourable, because it allows good professional work and facilitates longer continuous periods of free time. In the newspaper, we were able to read about Ken Rogstad, who works at an institution for mentally retarded people at Tåsen, no later than a week ago. He says he is extremely pleased to join us. I quote: ‘It seems that the resident has a very high return on it. He then has two or three people to deal with over a longer period, instead of the staff being replaced three times a day. Four days at work may sound a lot, but the frigates I get in between are worth a lot. [...] I have more profit on the leisure time of the tour I now have and earn better than I did before. This is a form of work I really like.” The Welfare Research Institute, NOVA, carried out a survey in 2005-2006, which showed that the scheme contributed to a more positive everyday life for children and young people in institutions. The Children’s Protection Panel also recommended that greater consideration be given to participation of employees in child protection institutions. So here we have a system that, after all of the sun's signs, seems to work out fairly well for the users, and the employees are happy with it. If you remove the scheme, we risk making long-term contracts more difficult. The result of this can be more rapid coercion and medication and a more insecure everyday life for both users and employees. That is why we are going to vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1883	The representative of Red would like to repeal the co-delivery regulation ‘in order to ensure better working conditions in the field of child protection and other care services’. For me, this becomes quite contradictory. The regulation was temporary, and after – call it for – a trial period it became permanent in 2017. It has been very positive for both employees and residents of the institutions that have introduced this. The scheme allows institutions to offer as best they can to their residents. These are vulnerable users with special needs, where we need to facilitate their follow-up. The 2015 Fafo Report, entitled ‘Working Time in Child Protection Institutions. Practice and regulation’, was a final report of the project ‘Evaluation of the co-provision’. This report does not indicate that repealing the regulation will make it easier for employees and residents, on the contrary. When nearly 60 pst. by national child-restraint services using these types of guards, it is not to create difficult jobs, but to make it easier and safer for employees and residents. Everything suggests that this makes sense. The said Fafo report also states that the scheme has led to fewer adult populations, creating relationships between employees and residents and contributing to stability and security. In addition, a public investigation was carried out in 2016, NOU 2016:1 Working Time Committee: Regulation of working time – protection and flexibility. The selection took place, among others: through the regulation of working time in Norway and the inclusion of the co-delivery system. Nor does this report indicate that this scheme should be scrapped. On the other hand, the Working Time Committee proposed to extend the scope of the regulation. The sample considered that the type of problem or diagnosis that users or patients have should not be dependent but that it should be essential to require care and presence. The scheme is positive. It is wanted by both employees and residents, it produces good results, and more and more institutions use it. The majority in the room want to maintain the regulation in order to ensure good working conditions in the field of child protection and other care services.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1900	A well-organised and well-regulated work life is a prerequisite for a safe family life. We are not talking about rigid rules, but about clear rules, which can be verified in everyday life by all parties. The centre party is in favour of the co-delivery regulation – i.e. ‘live with’: professionals live with persons under child protection or other care services. It is very good for both many young people and many employees, who deal with the job, and it is incredibly important to avoid too many employees who come and go with the young. It works well in government, public enterprises. Participation tour and government tariff agreement work well. The problem is, in the opinion of the Centre Party, some private enterprises that exploit the employees, with really poor pay and working conditions. I've heard examples that require 50 pst. more work on these, compared to the situation in institutions owned by the public – 50 pst. more work and the same salary. It is also a major feature of private relationships with unorganised employees and non-permanent employees. There are examples of private drug collectives who have paid all the way down to 60–70 kroner per hour. This is the problem. So the center part is in favour of the co-livery regulation, but it assumes that we're getting cleaned up in the conditions of those who abuse the system. That is why the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has tabled proposal No. 5 and 6, and I'll take up those suggestions. In proposal No 5 we suggest: «The Government is asked to ensure that regulations on participation arrangements, etc. are practised in such a way that today’s agreement between the employee organisations and the country shall also apply to private operators/institutions.’;» When the public wants private individuals to do a public-account job, it must be possible for the public to make demands on pay and working conditions. The trade union is in favour of the co-delivery regulation, subject to such ordered remuneration and employment conditions. It is important that we get clear in Stortinget that we require such arrangements also for private activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1916	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1922	The Christian People's Party places the first emphasis on the concern of young people in this matter. There are many children who have experience from child protection institutions who say that participation schemes are essential for them to be able to experience belongings and adults who care about them. Let me just quote some of the so-called child protection professionals: ‘That they change adults all the time is not good for me. I don't know what they take into account when they decide that way. Now it changes all the time, before at least they were here a few days in the sling." Another one says: "I often see more than 20 adults here in a day. It must be wrong?’ Or another one that says, «Participating tour is very good. Two weeks and two weeks off. It shows that they care. That they would like to spend so much of their time at work. It's important to me." Or one last one that says: ‘When adults live with you, they know that they are a bit in your situation. And you feel like part of a big family. They get up with you and that. Normal in a way.’» The second concern that is important for the Christian People's Party is to listen to the ideal institutions. He said the representative of Moxnes would like to abolish the cohabitation in order to prevent them from working after this model. Ideally, they can be included in the drag suction if this rule is dropped. For the sake of the children of the institutions and the ideals, the Christian People's Party will not repeal the membership regulation. Rather, this should be resolved by concluding the most possible agreements with the ideals over the commercial players and by requiring wage, working, pension and working time arrangements in the procurement process. This may be incorporated into the requirement specifications, as a requirement to be qualified. The Christian People's Party was ready to vote in favour of the proposal for SV that they've pulled, but now we're going to vote for the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1951	Child protection should ensure good growth conditions and care for the most vulnerable in our society. If they are to receive it, employees must also have safety, competence and good working conditions, and there must be enough of them at work. 13 years ago, we got the co-delivery order, as a temporary arrangement. The community collectives offered alternative treatments, where employees lived at the treatment site, and the job was part of a lifestyle where work and leisure could flow into one another. Today, few employees are living and working in this way, but despite this, the scope was considerably expanded and the regulation was made permanent, despite clear warnings from both LO, YS and UNIO. The trade-union movement in red has its back when we propose to repeal the co-legislative regulation, so that, instead of using the regulation, the companies use the right to enter into agreements with trade unions with the right to set-off or to apply to the Labour Inspectorate for exceptions to the working time regulations. Work also supports Rødt’s proposal to achieve a maximum working time limit and to evaluate health effects. The regulations provide for the possibility of individually agreeing to an extreme working time and thus set aside the working time arrangements, without agreements with trade unions with the right to cancel and also without the agreement of the Labour Inspectorate. Unfortunately, this regulation is being exploited by some welfare professionals. It leads to demanding working hours for employees, which may affect the children in the next round. There are examples of people working with commercials for 28 days more than those employed in state institutions for about the same salary. We're going to give children and young people the stability and security they need. We're not against people working longer periods of time if it's necessary to make a good offer. Our proposal will not prevent jobs in which employees are satisfied with such a scheme from being easily approved, as it was in the decades until the codecision regulation was adopted. However, this should be in agreement with the employees in order to ensure that there is no predatory activity on those who are absolutely essential for the quality of the children’s and young people’s offerings.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1966	The President assumes that the representative will make proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1971	Yeah, I'll take up Red's suggestion.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1976	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1981	Membership schemes are used in institutions that care for users with special needs and who are particularly vulnerable. The regulation we are talking about today is therefore important for some of the weakest in society. The institutions in question are responsible for people who require employees to be present for longer consecutive periods than usual rotational arrangements. Those we talk about are often children and young people who need to be able to deal with the same caregiver throughout the day, in order to experience more continuity, more stability and fewer interruptions and staff changes – which is important for care and treatment. The professional communities agree that stability, few professionals and continuity are important in creating security and in building good relations between employees and residents. Research also shows that employees are satisfied. Some institutions have also highlighted the positive nature of access to qualified personnel for the provision of participation schemes. I myself have visited several institutions, public as private, in several sectors that offer this, and the feedback is clearly positive. Therefore, in order to ensure optimum provision for users, it must be possible to establish working time arrangements which differ from the general working time rules. The rule of law makes it easier, in addition to applying more sectors than before. Membership arrangements may only be used in exceptional cases. The regulation can only be used where necessary from a care or treatment perspective. This ensures that working time arrangements based on this Regulation are used only where professionally justified. However, the consequences of such working time arrangements, both for employees and for residents, must be closely monitored. When the scope was extended in 2017, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs announced that an evaluation of the regulation will be carried out together with the sector, including: the consequences of the extension of the scope. This will be done in cooperation with the sectors concerned, which are mainly under the responsibility of the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality. For the time being, it is premature to say something about the consequences of the changes, until they have worked for a short time. But to remove it and reduce its scope, which is one of the proposals today, I strongly disagree with, in the light of the experience we have so far drawn from the schemes where it has been tested.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e1996	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2001	Welcome back - we're still here! The Council of State sent a letter of response to the Committee when we dealt with this matter, and there the Council of State says very clearly that there are challenges related to the understanding and practice of the legislation for co-optors, which should be followed closely. What, in concrete terms, is what the Council of State really has in mind?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2008	This regulation is relatively new – it has not been in force for a long time since it came into force. However, it is important to stress that today's debate gives the impression that major changes have been made to the co-legislative system. The changes made are the extension of the scope. No changes have been made to the terms in order to be able to agree, etc. The changes concern the scope. In the past, only institutions offered drug treatment and so-called behaviour that could do this, and then we extended the scope. It was actually the refugee flow in 2015 that was the basis for it – when many minor asylum seekers came. Then we also extended it to the protection of children and to those with mental retardation, etc. So it's essentially the scope that's expanded. There is a need to follow closely in the partner institutions, for example: Because we see that there is also a certain risk of having long shifts, and there is some of that that of course we also have to follow closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2013	Thanks for the answer. The Joint Organisation, which organises many of the employees who fall under the co-delivery regulation, indicates that they are up to 100 pst. cases authorise the fixing of tariffs for alternative working time arrangements. What is the reason why the Council of State has said no to that kind of agreement and has instead gone for an extension of the co-delivery regulation?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2020	The rule is, as I say, only changed by that we have extended the scope. We haven't done anything about the agreement or anything else; it's the scope we've done something about. The background for this is that we believe that participation schemes are positive for the users they are supposed to reach. Evaluation from Fafo shows this. I have visited several of the institutions that were part of the trial scheme, including in Bergen, and private public enterprises, which show that the type of working time arrangements were positive primarily for users, but also for the employees – and for the professional offer given. This is also why we wanted to extend the scope to more sectors and sectors than was previously possible. As I said, it is the only change we made, and we believe that it should be easy to establish the kind of tour arrangements within the scope that are, provided that it is professionally justified that this is what is necessary for the user to have the offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2026	I will also follow up on what the Council of State writes in the letter of 30 April – I quote: ‘It is important that the consequences of the extension of the type of institutions that can use the co-supplier scheme be closely followed, both in terms of the impact on employees and users. Challenges relating to the understanding and practice of legislation should also be followed.’» This works well in the opinion of the Centre Party in public institutions, where there is an agreement between trade unions and the public owner. The problem is in some private institutions, drawing the legislation, as I presented in my main post. What is my question is: is there anything wrong with the fact that the public, who buys such services from private individuals, imposes pay and employment requirements on those who are required to carry out the task, which is such that they are consistent with those who are in the business of public ownership?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2038	Now I don't know how it is done in general in the public sector in all municipalities, but as a former city council in this city, I saw that it was quite normal that we had as a condition that there should be equivalent pay and employment conditions to those in the Municipality of Oslo or similar collective agreements. So it's perfectly normal that you do it. Of course, any municipality and state are free to impose pay and working conditions as one of the requirements of their tenders. As I understand some of the comments or suggestions in the vote, it is such that the terms of the collective bargaining agreements are equivalent. I think that would be an intervention in municipal autonomy. Municipalities must be able to decide for themselves which pay and working conditions are to be imposed. But the answer to the question is that yes, it can be done by the public — set as pay and working conditions — when they are going to buy services from outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2043	I have spoken with several members of child protection institutions, both in Bufetat's institutions and in private child protection institutions. I hear from them that there's a pretty high level of sick coverage at the institutions where the most demanding young people are. Not necessarily at all, but at some of the institutions where there is the most demanding, there is a lot of sick coverage. In addition, there is a very large difference in risk levels when one sets young people up against each other. Some young people are extremely selective and are being singled out, with four people in one user. Does the Council of State see that it may be a requirement to stand four days in the ranks of such demanding young people, when it is chosen and exhausted?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2048	It has not been long since the government tightened up, among other things. The HMS Regulation, which made it clear that employers' responsibilities and obligations to monitor the working environment for employees and different risk conditions, would then, if necessary, put in place measures to limit the risk to employees. Obviously, the institutions I'm talking about will have very different user groups, where there are different levels of work and workload for employees, and that, of course, employers have to take into account when developing tours at these institutions. Even I was responsible for child protection in the Municipality of Oslo. There we got a tour plan of 25 hours, that is, a little over 24 hours, which allowed the employees to follow the young people through the clock. At other places, they could be both two and three days without a load, because you have enough real rest. It is precisely the amount of work and the workload that will be decisive, I believe, for which the various institutions are going to have their turn.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2057	This is not about yes or no to long-winders. Within the country, the parties have negotiated an agreement which means that employees work two or three days continuously, with one week off between, and they are compensated for inconvenient working hours. Each year, the type of agreement is concluded, and employers applying for a trade union are met in almost all cases, including outside the State area. The aim here is to bring alternative working time arrangements into a system where employees are compensated for inconvenient working time and in a way that ensures their health, environment and safety. I would like to ask if the Council of State knows some examples of trade unions in the drug field saying no to applications for alternative working time arrangements, or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2064	Yes, as far as I am aware, the trade unions essentially say yes when they receive an application for it. It may be a little more demanding to go that way, but I'm not aware that it's a big problem. But once again, I have to remind you – you give the impression that the government changed the regulation in the direction of employee involvement. We have not, we have only proposed to extend the scope. And what Red proposes in his proposal is, of course, to limit the scope for using this. This means that the representative of Moxnes will return to the fact that there are only institutions in the field of drugs and behaviour. I strongly disagree with that. We have so many children and young people and other vulnerable groups who will benefit very well from this type of tour schedule, because it provides increased stability, more predictability and better opportunities to build relationships with the children. I would advise against going in the direction of Moxnes here.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2071	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2089	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2098	Thanks to the Center Party for raising a very important issue for Norwegian working life in general and for the port workers in particular. It concerns how Norway is to ensure that the ILO Convention I37 on the Rights of Port Workers, ratified by Norway in 1974, is actually implemented in Norway. Thanks also to the Committee for good cooperation during the examination of the case, which started with consultation on 7 May, where both employers and employees were represented. The Convention imposes some formal requirements on countries that have ratified it. It concerns workers whose main source of income is port work. Countries shall define the two terms «port works» and «port works». The defined port workers shall be guaranteed permanent or regular employment as far as possible. Records of all defined categories of port workers shall be established and kept up to date. These port workers have preferential rights to port work. In return, port workers are required to be available for such work. Furthermore, the Convention obliges the ratifying countries to ensure that the development and efficiency of ports is achieved through tripartite cooperation between employees, employers and authorities. Furthermore, ratification countries are required to implement the provisions of the Convention by law or regulation, with some exceptions. Law or regulation is not necessary if the provisions of the Convention have been implemented otherwise, either through collective agreements, arbitration awards or national practices. On the Norwegian side, following a recommendation from the Norwegian Employers' Association and the Norwegian National Association, the Commission chose to implement the ILO 137 by regulating work in Norwegian ports through two agreements between the Norwegian Transport Workers' Association and the NHO Logistics and Transport: the Framework Agreement and the South and North Norway Agreement. The right of pre-emption appeared in the Framework Agreement. The definition of port work was made in practice by the inclusion of those registered or employed by the administrative offices of the port loading and unloading workers. Following the so-called Holship judgment in the Supreme Court, the previous agreements were replaced by a new port and terminal agreement in September 2017. The previous agreements expired on 1 April this year. The new Agreement applies to both public and private ports and covers both port terminal operators and loading and unloading offices. So far, everyone agrees. The disagreement is whether ILO 137 can now be considered as being implemented in Norway. The majority of the committee says yes, the minority says no, the council doesn't know. I use the opportunity to address the suggestions the Workers' Party is behind, together with the SV and the Center Party, and will justify them in a later article. We will also vote in favour of proposal No. 3, from the Centre Party and SV, which is really the same as our joint proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2113	The representative Lise Christoffersen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2118	First of all, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for the usual orderly and good work he has done. The right of pre-emption in the ILO Convention 137 came at a time when the port workers were unemployed without security for permanent or regular work and income. The Convention should ensure stable pay and working conditions and open up two ways to do so. The general rule is that port workers are to be guaranteed permanent or regular employment, minimum periods of employment or minimum income. This is similar to the general rule of Norwegian working life, namely permanent employment in a full-time job. That is the only way to comply with the Convention, in line with the Norwegian labour law and collective bargaining agreements. The other way is a registration system where you are called upon at the time of the ship's arrival. This really breaks with the general rule of Norwegian working life and reminds me more about renting. What's a little special is that it's barely a week since we debated rentals, and a majority, including the proposers in this case, adopted strong restrictions on rentals in other sectors. In this case, it seems the opposite. In the port of Drammen, which provides a background for this case, there were six registered permanent employees at the port loading and unloading office who used up to 90 temporary workers to solve the duties. Should we go back and define the registration system as the only system that complies with the Convention, it would not only increase the use of rental, but also undermine the port and terminal agreement between NTF and NHO Logistics and Transport – an agreement that ensures more fully permanent jobs. The proposal of the Central Party refers to the fact that there is no reference to the ILO Convention 137 in the new Port and Terminal Agreement. Moreover, it was not in the other conventions either, and it is because it is the State that is the addressee of the ILO Convention, and the State that has said that once the parties have arranged this through collective agreements, this is good enough to comply with the ILO Convention. The funny thing is that if the ILO Convention is made an integral part of the collective bargaining agreement, power is also transferred to the international organisations, and the collective bargaining partners lose their autonomy over their own negotiations. As we will probably see in the next case on the agenda, the Central Party is not exactly a member of it. The problem in this case is not the EEA Agreement. The preferential right gave a monopolistic situation that weakened the efficiency of the value chain and increased costs for port users and local businesses in the districts. And I think it's actually strange that the Center Party wants to make it more expensive to maintain jobs in the districts. We believe that the interests of port workers are best served by the existence of production and jobs along the coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2133	The Central Party, together with the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, has concluded that Norwegian port workers are not adequately protected today, and considers that Norway is not in line with the obligations we have by having acceded to the ILO Convention 137. It is problematic that Norwegian port workers are not ensured sufficient work through preferential law or regulation and that the collective agreements concluded between the parties for employees in ports do not mention the ILO Convention 137 or preferential rights in particular anymore. In the Ministry's reply to the Committee, the Council of State has expressed its concern at the current organisation of Norwegian ports and the existing practice against the agreement concluded between the social partners and the Convention. It's neat. Nevertheless, it is clear that the Supreme Court has already looked at several aspects, including the obligations of the ILO Convention 137 under the right of priority for port workers against the EEA Agreement, the Constitution and the right of establishment. In the suspension, the parties to the Government have referred to a given Supreme Court judgment, the so-called Holship judgment, from December 2016. It makes it clear that the Supreme Court considered that the right of preference favoured the employees of the administrative offices, thereby repressing the access of other actors to the market. Nevertheless, the Supreme Court concluded there that the ILO Convention 137 can be complied with in ways other than through the use of specific preferential rights. Wishing trade unionists to be protected from competition may not be new notes from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Workers' Party, but that at the same time they are actually applauding the unemployee organisation of port workers to a large extent working under it, is, to put it mildly, surprising. The party of progress is not a monopolist, as a preferential right here would give, nor are we attached to supporting some industries to base their operations on rentals and temporary employment, and I am surprised that this is the wish of the opposition here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2144	The background to the case is the decision of the Supreme Court that the rules of the collective bargaining agreement on the right of priority for a group of workers constituted an illegal restriction on the right of free establishment resulting from Article 31 of the EEA Agreement. That's the core of what was the starting point for it all. We note that the majority deliberately argues that the reintroduction of preference rights for port workers would be very challenging, as this preferential right would have to be reserved for the EEA Agreement in the event of a conflict with the EEA obligations. But, as the Central Party and SV write in the setting, we don't let ourselves be fooled by the stick of such arguments, but understand well why the majority does it. For the Centre Party and SV, it is important that Norwegian collective bargaining agreements, Norwegian labour law and ILO conventions take precedence over EU law. These conditions have been carefully assessed in the ILO Convention. Both Articles 1, 2, 3 and 4 clarify what we're talking about. I would like to quote from Article 5 of the ILO Convention 137: ‘In order to ensure the greatest possible social benefits of new methods of handling goods, the policies of the country concerned shall encourage cooperation between employers or their organisations on the one hand, and the employee organisations on the other, on improving port work efficiency, with the participation, where appropriate, of the competent authorities on the other’. Article 7 reads as follows: ‘The rules of this Convention shall be enforced by national laws or regulations, in so far as they have not been enforced by collective agreements, arbitration awards or any other means consistent with national practice.’;» This is also the understanding of the situation of the proposers. In her letter of 30 April 2018, she said: ‘On this basis, the parties have indicated that the authorities must now assess whether the obligations under the ILO Convention have been fulfilled.’ So one is not, on the part of the Council of State, agreeing with what the majority of the committee, the government parties, say, that this is okay. The core of this for the Central Party is our proposals, and I will now address proposal No. 3, which we have promoted with SV, where it says: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose amendments to the law or regulation in order to realise its preferential rights to port workers through the ILO Convention 137.’ That's what's at the heart of this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2178	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2183	In this case, the proposers call for us to ensure that port workers are given priority by law or regulation. After reading the hearing statements on the subject, and according to what was said by those who were on the phone in the committee, it becomes very clear that there is a different view between the employee side and the employer side of whether ILO Convention 137 can be viewed as being implemented in Norway or not. It's an opinion that one also sees dividing the hall into two. The hearing statements also indicate that it is likely to be possible to find a non-priority instrument when regulating the field, for example. for the purposes of the EEA Agreement and the interpretation of the ILO Convention. I also note that the Council of State in its reply to the Committee has warned that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs will have a review of Norway's Convention obligations and see whether they can be complied with and how they should be complied with, and whether they can be regarded as being introduced now when tariff agreements no longer give priority. The Christian People's Party believes that it is most neat to wait for such an assessment and therefore come to vote for the vote and against the proposals that lie in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2190	The general rule of Norwegian working life is permanent, full-time jobs. This, of course, also applies to port workers. Port workers are fully covered by the same rights in working life as all other workers. That's the way it should be. For port workers, this has not always been the case. In the past, it was common for port work to be carried out largely by the so-called lay workers. It was this ILO convention 137 on port work aimed to do something in 1973, i.e. 45 years ago. The Convention should contribute to improving the situation of workers through regular employment and stable income as far as possible. It was therefore necessary to establish records of the port workers and those port workers should have preferential rights to port work. In the past, it was the tariff agreements that regulate the work in Norwegian ports, which also regulated the preference of port workers. The right of pre-emption has been exercised by the fact that the port workers have been employed in the administrative office for unloading and loading operations, and companies required to carry out unloading and loading operations have been obliged to purchase these services from the administrative office. In September 2017, the parties concluded a new agreement – the Port and Terminal Agreement. The Parties agree here that terminal work is mainly to be carried out by terminal workers and is based on fixed-term full-time jobs, without mentioning the preferential right or the ILO 137. This has led to questions as to whether the obligations under the ILO Convention continue to be fulfilled. The Convention shall primarily be implemented in collective agreements or practices between the social partners. To the extent that this has been done, the Convention does not impose legislation. So the State has to regulate this to the extent that the Convention is not met by any other means. As I informed in my letter to Stortinget in May, we have started a work to assess the implementation of the ILO 137 in the new situation in which the agreement does not deal directly with the preferential right or convention. We aim to carry out the evaluation during the autumn of 2018. Then there may be different ways to implement the Convention, not just as it has been done in the past, or through legislation. However, it is too early to conclude on this issue without a thorough assessment first. Of course, if there is a need for legislative changes, the government will follow this up in a very normal way. Of course, the parties will also be involved in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2209	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2215	I expect close contact between the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the majority of the Committee when comments are made in individual cases. The majority of the Committee notes that they consider ILO Convention 137 to be implemented in practice through the new port agreement. In its letter to the Committee, the Council of State says the opposite, that there is no longer an agreement between the parties complying with ILO Convention 137. Who is entitled, the majority of the committee or the state council?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2220	It's true that it's no longer mentioned in the collective agreements. The new tariff agreements do not explicitly mention preference rights. It is still fully possible to believe that the Convention obligations are fulfilled, but then they must be fulfilled in a way other than through the collective agreements, as they explicitly did before. I notice that several of the hearing bodies – those who have been at the hearing here – have expressed the same opinion. However, on my part and on my part, it is too early to conclude that the Convention has been met in another way. That's what we're now going to investigate and look at, and come back to Stortinget with any changes to the law, if necessary. But there are several ways to implement the Convention. The collective agreements are one way of doing that. You don't do that anymore, because the collective agreements have changed. Law is another way. That's what we're going to do now.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2227	I thank you for your answer. It was so elucidating. My other question concerns: Regardless of the Holship Supreme Court case, in practice preference was already infringed in ports where so-called exclusive law is practised. Does the Council of State consider it to be in line with Norway’s obligations under ILO Convention 137?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2234	It must almost be the owners of the collective bargaining agreement who are careful to comply with the collective bargaining agreement. If it is that the collective agreement and preferential rights have not been complied with, this is almost a question that the owners of the collective agreement, i.e. the parties that have concluded it, have to deal with in that case. But as I said in my previous answer, there are many ways to fulfill the convention. The collective agreement is one way of doing this, another way of doing it is by law. I notice that many people believe that the Convention has already been respected by existing legislation. That is what we are now going to consider in more detail, and to the extent that there is a need for change, we will, of course, implement those changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2239	In the context of the 2016 tariff settlement, the parties took the initiative vis-à-vis the Ministry in the case of the issue of ILO Convention 137, which can still be considered as being implemented in Norway. One of the questions they raised was just the question of the exclusive right, and the government reported to the ILO as late as 2017. Is the issue of exclusive rights and the relationship to preferential rights under ILO Convention 137 part of the issues raised in Norway's report to the ILO in 2017?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2244	I can't take completely on board what's in that report, so I have to come back to that. But what's important in the matter we're dealing with now is to assess whether ILO Convention 137 is properly implemented or not, and that's what we're now going to figure out. There's several ways to do it. The law and regulations are one thing, the contract work is something else. But we are now going to do thorough investigation work first – we are obliged to do that – and then we have to get back to Stortinget if there is a need for change or not. It's too early to say anything about now.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2249	Previous collective bargaining agreement was sentenced in the Supreme Court to be contrary to the freedom of establishment of the EEA Agreement, i.e. Article 31. It is a very clear example that the EEA Agreement overrides Norwegian tariff agreements, as Gro Harlem Brundtland did at the time of the debate in 1993, on the one hand, and on the other hand, on the other hand, said that no action was to be taken. It's a strong development we're seeing now. The new convention between the parties following the Supreme Court judgment has no reference to the ILO, while Norway is obliged to ILO Convention 137, and it is many years ahead to be able to free itself from it. The Council of State says that when a person does not have collective agreements, the law is different, and that is evident from Article 7 of the ILO Convention. I understand the Council of State so that the Council of State will seriously consider its own law, which can thus replace the collective agreement and guarantee preferential rights. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2258	It's a fact that international agreements can trump. That's the way it is. But whether you're going to have a new law or change the law, it's too early to say anything about it. It remains to be seen whether the intention of the Convention has been adequately safeguarded in other ways. I notice that many people believe it. Some of the intentions of the Convention include: that you must have permanent posts. This is already the case in the Working Environment Act today. The second is that one must also have a separate register of all categories of occupations. I guess that's a long way to go, too, saying that you already have today. And then it's the right of priority that remains, and there's a point in the collective agreement that it's supposed to be the ones who work at the port, who also have to load and unload. But we have to get back to this. We need to do an investigation, and then we will see what action, if any, needs to be taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2265	The managing offices at the ports, which give priority to cargo and unloading workers, have ensured both efficiency and the lowest possible cost to business. There has been a practical arrangement, and there has been a balance between interests. So we have the clear wording of the ILO Convention. I can refer again to Article 7: ‘The rules of this Convention shall be enforced by national laws or regulations, in so far as they have not been enforced by collective agreements, arbitration awards or any other means consistent with national practice.’;» The question is again: if a person does not have a collective agreement that ensures that, if he does not wish to have laws and regulations, what other means can it be implemented in such a way as to safeguard the ILO Convention's intention?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2275	The question is, among other things: if existing laws cover the purpose of the Convention. That's what we're going to review now and see: can we consider ILO Convention 137 respected with what we already have, now that the tariff agreement does not explicitly mention this, or is there a need for new or further changes? That's what we're going to be looking at, so it's too early to say anything about it now. I must almost be allowed to come back to that when we have done this investigation. Maybe you have to do something, maybe not, but it's too early to say something about it. So I would just like to stress: it is such that there are a number of EU countries that have also ratified ILO Convention 137, which organises ports in another way, and in which obviously EEA legislation does not prevent compliance with ILO Convention 137.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2282	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2290	Whoever is going to unload and load the ships when they are at port is more than just what job code people should have when they are at work. It's about securing skills at the end of the day, being a caretaker in unloading work, and good pay and working conditions for those who do the job. In Norway, ILO Convention 137 was implemented by way of tariff fixing the priority rights of port workers for unloading and loading work. When the ship was at berth, Norwegian port workers were the first to live in the guards. The loosing and loading offices took care of the needs of the port workers for fixed additions and had them shifted so that they were all very careful income, while at the same time providing port users with the labour they needed when they needed it. The LO and the Transport Workers’ Association already refer to several cases of social dumping and more frequent use of part-time, i.e. they are in violation of the ILO Convention. How does the Government Party feel that Norway is complying with the requirements of ILO Convention 137? I ask because the Council of State itself writes that there is no longer an agreement between the parties fulfilling the obligations of the ILO Convention. If there is a government target to comply with international obligations, it would be interesting to hear what measures they will take to ensure the permanent or regular employment of port workers. If each port user is required to provide the necessary personnel when the number of assignments varies and is uninhabitable, small part-time settings will be added at best. It is possible for the loading and unloading offices to see the whole activity at the port below and always secure as many port workers as needed at work, and also secure the port workers' fixed salary. Consequently, it is important for SV to reintroduce the right of preference for established port workers. I recommend the suggestions that SV is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2303	At the time of the adoption of the ILO Convention 137, in 1973, it had the primary purpose of ensuring permanent unloading and loading work and stable income for port workers. New unloading and loading techniques and increasing mechanisation and automation had replaced many of the traditional operations and reduced the need for port workers. Norway acceded to the Convention before the first working environment law was introduced and before the well-regulated working life with which we are accustomed today. It's almost 50 years ago. Today – in 2018 – it is still important to ensure good, safe and predictable pay and working conditions, including for port workers. However, with the introduction of the Working Environment Act and the requirement for permanent jobs, as well as later collective agreements where a fixed position is a goal, port workers have gained significantly better status. There's reason to ask why the Center Party wants to return to a time of lay-offs and a 50-year-old solution, which is mildly out of date. The Supreme Court has already established that the ILO 137 can be complied with in ways other than by law and regulation, including: by fulfilling the purpose of the Convention and the offer of permanent posts. Permanent posts are precisely the subject of the collective agreement between the parties, the Port and Terminal Agreements. The contract did not contain a word of preference. Nevertheless, LO was initially satisfied with the agreement. It is fully possible to ensure the safety of port workers for both work and income without a rigid priority. What preference can lead to in practice, we have already seen examples of. In the Holship case, mentioned several times now, Drammen port, where the club manager of the Transport Workers' Association was also the general manager of the port office. This resulted in the union having full control over the work in the port. There were six permanent workers who were engaged in unloading and loading, and 50–90 conscripts. This is directly contrary to the guiding principle of the Working Environment Act that permanent employment should be the general rule. It seems quite paradoxical in view of the debate we had in this Chamber last week. Then the Workers' Party and the Center Party were among the leading arms depositors to combat renting. In this case, together with the trade union movement, they have turned everything upside down and now support a system where one of the consequences is just increased rent. I'm a little tired of seeing the principle. The main purpose of the ILO Convention 137 is met in Norway, among others. through collective bargaining agreements and the right to permanent jobs in the Working Environment Act. As a result of the fact that there is no longer an agreement that meets the obligations, the government is considering the case. The social partners are informed and aim to carry out such an assessment during the autumn of 2018. If necessary, the government will follow up on this in the usual way and involve the social partners. On the other hand, preferential rights are not a good solution for any of the parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2318	The purpose of the ILO Convention 137 was precisely that one should go from what was a labour society to permanent employment and stable income. I note representatives from the government parties who almost show a touching concern for the port workers, and will contribute to orderly relations. Well, then it's interesting to note that it's the same port workers and their organizations who disagreed very much about the abolition of the right of preference and led the fight to the Supreme Court. The same organisations also refer to the present situation after the disappearance of the right of preference. One is on the full path back towards a labour-union society, where seafarers under flags of convenience carry out more work in Norwegian ports, where there is greater social dumping, and where there is widespread use of part-time. There is a need to implement changes. The preference of the port workers for loading and unloading, and the arrangement they had with the administrative office, worked well and helped to ensure that one had flexible solutions. It was not a monopoly system, it was a priority. For example, in situations where a non-registered port worker had to do the work, an agreement could be made that crews on ships carried out the work. The majority of the Supreme Court condemned the existing scheme of illegality and fully demonstrated that the EEA is above Norwegian law and ILO Convention 137. However, this does not necessarily mean that preference cannot be exercised in Norway for that reason, but the question is how to do it. We are obliged by ILO Convention 137, when the right of priority is no longer in the contract work, to implement it by law or regulation. That's why it's important – such a thing. by the Transport Workers’ Association, the Stortinge is responsible for ensuring the right of pre-emption by law and regulation, that through that work we also need to have a clear definition of what are port workers, and that work is prioritised and progressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2329	The debate used terms such as ‘came at a time when’, ‘nearly 50 years ago’, we should only use registered ones, ‘priority is not a good solution’. [[...]] Let me just remind you that ILO Convention 137 applies in Norway. We've ratified it. It's not up to us to define and scald and select with it as we like. Let it be clear to everyone: the Labour Party will always be on the side of workers in the fight against social dumping. ILO Convention 137 has been ratified by Norway. At the hearing of the Grand Duchy, it was clear that there was disagreement between the employer and the employee sides as to whether the Convention following the Holship judgment and the repeal of the earlier collective agreements could actually be considered fulfilled. The Workers' Party supports the views of the employees' side in the case. The reason for this is obvious, it should not surprise anyone: there is no longer a definition of ‘port’ and ‘port’ work. It was previously defined by collective agreements, which are now replaced by an agreement without such definitions. There is no longer a register of port workers, as previously defined by the administrative offices. There is no longer a preferential right for port workers, since it is not defined who is covered by the term «port workers» and what is port work. What is a little surprising is the discrepancy between the position of the government parties and that of the Council of State to the Committee. When the government parties explicitly state in the vote that Norway's obligations must be considered fulfilled, and refer to the new port agreement, as the employer's side did during the hearing, there is a very sharp contrast to the Council's letter to the Committee, where she says: «As a result of the cessation of an agreement between the parties meeting the obligations of ILO Convention 137, the government is considering the matter.» It confirmed to the extent that the Council of State also confirmed in the line change a little while ago. The working party wants the ILO Convention 137 to be complied with. It should be obvious that we are going to comply with a convention we have ratified ourselves. The majority should also focus on reality. We're not talking about permanent jobs, the whole job set up against a layman's system. 147 reports have been received showing that seafarers are used for unloading and loading, contrary to the letter of the Convention and contrary to the requirements of international agreements that seafarers permitted to carry out such work must have paid overtime. As regards the Holship judgment, the Court of Justice and the EFTA Court have not stated that preference is contrary to EEA law. What they have said is that the way it was implemented in Norway was contrary to EEA law, so we'll find another way. Just like that, the Labour Party's employment and social fraction was actually confirmed in the previous period, during a visit to ESA, which expressed exactly the same thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2351	There are several issues in this case that are alarming. The proposals are, in total, a major step away from the responsible policy line for which the Workers' Party has historically secured a majority. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and SV are now fighting for a new preference for the port workers. The fact that the Centre Party and SV do not give a mention of the EEA Agreement, the relationship with Norway’s main market or Norwegian jobs may not be more than expected. But there's a reason to ask yourself how the Workers' Party can be involved in these proposals. It might also be interesting to hear how they consider that the provision on the right of priority for port workers can be implemented in law or regulation so that it does not conflict with the provisions of the EEA Agreement on the right of establishment under Article 31. This question was, as the representative Christoffersen said, asked several times during the hearing, but there was no very good answer. Or is it that the Labour Party really hopes that the proposals will not have a majority, so that the EEA agreement is not put into play? Whatever it is, it says, among other things. fully open if the Workers' Party is willing to set aside the EEA Agreement in order to achieve the inclusion of preferential rules for port workers in Norwegian law or regulation. At the time of the conclusion of the port and terminal agreement in 2017, LO Chief Hans-Christian Gabrielsen stated that he felt that the problems with the EEA Agreement were unresolvable. He also said, ‘In the long term, I believe that the agreement could lead to more port workers in Norway and that is why there is every reason to congratulate the parties to the agreement.’ These were the words of the LO leader, who is also a central member of the Workers' Party. It might be interesting to know why the Workers' Party has now turned around and is opposed to a collective agreement aimed at ensuring permanent jobs for port workers, while at the same time combating extensive renting in the industry. I understand that the port workers want predictability of work and income, but as mentioned earlier today, it is fully possible to ensure both permanent jobs and good working and pay conditions with the new tariff agreement without priority. It is therefore totally incomprehensible to me that the Workers' Party is seriously involved in these proposals when they are now aware of the consequences. The right-hand side sees no reason to vote for a preference from another time. Norwegian working life has changed considerably since the 1970s, and we now have legislation that also ensures port workers. It's among other things. good reasons for claiming that Norway’s obligations to ensure good and safe working and pay conditions for port workers must be stated. Pre-emption will not solve any problems. It only creates new ones, and that is why we are going to vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2369	Only cards: the Labour Party is a responsible party. It's always been, and it's still going to be. We do not waste the EEA Agreement by looking at ways of meeting our international obligations that do not conflict with EEA law. Speakers of the ESA, the EFTA Court and the Supreme Court have all said that there are ways to implement it which do not conflict with the provisions of the EEA Agreement. The Labour Party held a seminar last week in which one of the lawyers who has worked for ESA for a number of years, of Norwegian origin and who is now back in Norway, had a review of the degrees of freedom we have within the EEA Agreement, as it appears that this kind of knowledge is lacking in Norway. He said in plain words that he believed that the law used in the Holiday judgment was wrong. There were also seven of the members of the Supreme Court who actually meant it, and the LO has filed an appeal before the European Court of Human Rights. We don't know yet whether the case is going to be raised there or not, but if it does, it's going to be interesting to see what the European Court of Human Rights is going to do. I want to challenge the Council of States on the basis of the last article, from Toning Riise, which says in a way that it is up to Norway even if we are to meet our obligations under international conventions. He believes that the preference is old-fashioned, so we're kind of just going to jump over that we've ratified a convention that's still in force, and that applies at least until 2025. Then I would also like to ask the Council of State, for she will certainly have a rounding-off post: Does the Council of State think Norway is obliged by the international conventions that we have actually ratified, or is it the Toning Riise that represents the Right View on that particular matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2378	The representative Tuning Riise went to the pulpit and referred to the opinions of the LO leader, who congratulated the port workers on the new agreement. Yes, the new agreement provided important improvements in some areas, including: that it would apply not only to organised construction workers but also to those parts of the ports which are separated to private. It would be a great step forward in the debate if the Right agreed with the principles underlying it. But what is also absolutely indisputable in the new agreement is that the right of preference has been removed and that it is due to the EEA Agreement. The head of the Transport Workers' Union said the following to ABC News 21 September last year: ‘The EEA Agreement disregards our previous agreement. Of course, we wanted a collective agreement that gives preference to registered port workers." He added: ‘Here there is an interference with the free market right in Norway from the EEA.’ We live by the grace of the European Union. The system we've had in the past, we've been forced to change through the decision of the Supreme Court. Then there are other ways to implement ILO 137 and the preferential right there, and that's exactly the order we want from the Center Party, along with some other parties in this hall, to give the government. Therefore, like the previous speaker, the representative of Christoffersen, I would challenge the Council of State whether it is the representative of Tonning Riise who is representative of the majority's view that preference is old-fashioned, and that we should not fulfil our obligations under ILO 137, or whether it is actually such that the government still believes that Norway should fulfil its obligations under ILO Convention 137 and that a job is targeted for it. In the next round, the question is how to do it. There's no doubt about what's going to take precedence from the Center Party. The Central Party is very clear that Norwegian labour law, Norwegian collective bargaining agreements and ILO conventions will prevail over EU regulations in Norway, in line with what a unanimous LO Congress has adopted on two occasions. If that is the last thing that is going on, there is no doubt about where the Central Party's obligations lie in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2401	After hearing the statements made by Mr Hagerup and Mr Riise, you understand how much pressure the Council of State is of its own here in Stortinget – the pressure to put Norway’s obligations into the ILO Convention 137 on preferential rights. It's following conventions that are the responsible line. The situation in which we stand is that the EEA parties, when an EEA agreement was concluded, assured that the agreement should not affect Norwegian tariff agreements. If it had been clarified at the time of 1992 as it has now been clarified, the EEA Agreement would hardly have had the necessary voting powers over which it was adopted. A former ILO employee, a recognised ILO employee, as I know, said that there was a mistake here, and that there was a mistake. Nevertheless, it is the law that has been used, which has led to the High Court having set aside the collective agreement, which led to the conclusion of a second best collective agreement by the transport workers. It's interesting to see that proposal No. 3, from the Center Party and SV, only have our support. It is surprising that the Workers' Party cannot support that proposal in order to achieve the preference of port workers through the ILO Convention 137. The representative, Margaret Hagerup, says there's a rigid preference. No, it's not rigid. There is a fine, balanced arrangement in the ports to ensure orderly relationships. The centre party does not agree with any arrangements that increase the lease-in rate. We're stuck on fixed-term jobs, but if Hagerup's representative is in doubt about that, the Central Party is also in favour of fixed-term part-time employment. Part-time employment is fixed in the same way that full-time employment is permanent, and on this issue part-time employment is a natural consequence of the particular circumstances that exist. The special thing is how right-wing representatives here push the Council of States away from the commitments Norway has under ILO Convention 137. I understand the difficulties this case creates internally in the Right Group.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2416	I would first like to reassure the representative, Mr Lundtegen, that this matter does not cause problems in the Right Group or in the Government fraction. I would also like to stress that we do not live on the mercy of the European Union, nor in this matter. Several countries have implemented the ILO 137 as EU members, so it is fully possible to do both. Several have mentioned my reply to the committee that we no longer have collective agreements that make us comply with the right of priority. That's right, because the collective agreements have changed. So the question now is whether or not the ILO Convention is being met in other ways, and that's what we're going to consider. That means, of course, that we have to keep agreements and follow international obligations and conventions. So the question is not whether we should do it, the question is how to do it, and whether there is a need for other measures, or not. It is not that Norwegian working life is a legal space. On the contrary, Norwegian working life is strictly regulated by collective agreements, laws, regulations, directives and others. The question then is: is there a need for further regulation in external legislation, or is current legislation good enough to comply with ILO Convention 137? It is also worth recalling that the ILO Convention occurred at a different time, before much of the legislation we have today. It was just supposed to meet the needs of so-called job-seekers for permanent jobs and predictability of pay and income, and it is to the greatest extent ensured by other legislation. But now we're going to do an investigation, and then we're going to see if there's a need for further legislation, or if what we already have today, well covers ILO Convention 137.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2427	I'm just going to clear up a misunderstanding. I said in my first post that the Labour Party will also vote in favour of proposal No. 3 from the Centerpartiet and SV, and that we consider it almost identical to our own proposal No. 1, which says, ‘The government, after cooperation with the parties, asks, submit proposals for amendments to the law or regulation [[...]] I am pleased that the Council of State stated that there is no Tonning-Rise's view of Norway's relationship with the international conventions in force. The Council of State said that we should, of course, follow the obligations imposed on us by international conventions when we have both signed and ratified them ourselves, and that the discussion is now going to go on about how it should be done. That means that even if our proposals are voted down in the Chamber here today, the last word is not said in this case. I mentioned the European Court of Human Rights instead, and at the end of the day, the ILO itself will have a word in it when we report on the way we interpret and implement international conventions. And I would just like to stress once again: the Supreme Court did not say that the preferential right was contrary to EEA law, that was the way the preferential right was exercised in Norway which was considered to be contrary to EEA law.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2435	The representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik has spoken the word twice before and gets the word to a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2440	The Council of State came up here and said that Norway does not live on the mercy of the EU. Of course we do. In the observations of the majority, it is quite clear what the majority of the Court of Justice also said in the Holship case: ‘Despite how ILO Convention No. 137 Article 3 shall be understood as being subject to the right of establishment under Article 31 of the EEA Agreement under Section 2 of the EEA Act.’;» This means that the EEA rules have pre-driving rights. Then we believe that it is fully possible to find solutions to safeguard the primacy of our international obligations, but it is therefore the EEA obligations that have pre-emptive rights. And it wasn't a unanimous Supreme Court, it was a significant minority of 7 out of 17 judges who voted against the majority decision that came. It was a dramatic blow for Norwegian working life, and therefore it is important that we are on this matter in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2452	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2468	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that – within the allocated speaking time – up to five rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who may sign up to three minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2477	On 13 March 2018, the European Commission presented proposals for a European labour market agency, and the matter is now before the European Parliament. The debate we are about to have is a fine way for the Stortinget to start the discussion on the EU labour market agency, ELA, and a good opportunity to debate an EEA matter before it is finalised in the EU. The last six months have shown that we need it. There are major differences in the way different countries in Europe regulate their employment. Some rely solely on strict legislation, others on cooperation between parties, some on both sides — such as Norway — and some on minimum laws and minimal cooperation. State Council Hauglie stressed in the Question Time on 11 April that Norway does not want a solution that challenges Norwegian sovereignty in the field of working life. The Committee assumes that this is the basis for the government's further work on the case of the European Employment Agency, ELA. The purpose of the ELA is to improve the flow of information on the rights and obligations of workers and businesses, to improve cooperation between national employment authorities and to settle disputes between countries if they want an independent third party. If this ends up being the main pillars of the Agency’s functioning, it could be a useful tool in the fight against crime at work and social dumping. As the majority of the committee says in its vote: ‘With increased global capital flows, more international cooperation is needed to safeguard workers’ rights and combat inequalities.’ The Norwegian working life model is well worth taking care of. The parties have confidence in each other, and we regulate both through tripartite cooperation and through an ever-changing law. We need to protect this system because it allows us to adapt our working life to new times. This is why the Labour Party – and the Socialist Left – are today promoting proposals to clarify whether participation in the ELA weakens or strengthens our ability to regulate working life itself, and that Norway will reserve itself if our trust and cooperation-based way of regulating working life is weakened. With that, we want to send a clear signal that the Norwegian working life model has a future ahead of us. If the ELA strengthens the fight against social dumping and labour crime, and if Norwegian sovereignty is respected, the Labour Party will wholeheartedly support Norwegian participation in the Agency. If not, we signal today that we are willing to pull the emergency brake, to secure the future of the Norwegian working life model. With this, I address the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party's proposals in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2497	The representative Eigil Knutsen has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2502	The EU-aware labour market agency aims to ensure compliance with EU labour mobility legislation and to ensure that it is enforced in a fair, simple and effective way. During the financial crisis, I think it was about 260 000 EEA citizens who lived, lived and worked in Norway, thus ensuring the progress of both the Norwegian economy and, in particular, their own families at home, instead of going unemployed in their own country. A total of 17 million Europeans live in an EU country other than their own, and 1.4 million Europeans commute each day to another EU country to work. I would think securing workers' rights across borders is a good clean-up action in that part of the world of work that has the most challenges, namely the mobile one. As the EU approaches a solution to what many of us have pointed to as challenges, the Labour Party, the Centre Party, is threatening, not unknown, and SV to reserve — so much to clean up Norwegian working life. The new Agency shall facilitate the provision of information to people and businesses on rights, obligations and services relating to cross-border activities. Norway is already participating in several important European cooperation schemes in the field of working life. The European Commission’s proposals seem to bring them together in a new agency. This may mean that many of the Agency’s work tasks become similar to those already established by the EEA Agreement in Norway today, and no new cooperation. The Agency does not appear to intervene in either tripartite or national labour market policies, nor does it seem to have a few independent powers, involve a transfer of authority or intervene in the Norwegian model. The European Trade Union Movement, ETUC, is in favour of the proposal, as it can help to improve social rights across borders and combat the exploitation of workers. They assume that the Agency does not interfere with or undermine the individual Member State's own trade unions and cooperation between the parties. I remind you that social policy and labour market policy are and will be the responsibility of the nation state. It is important that the EU labour market works well. It is important that the rights of workers are respected and that enterprises have good access to labour. A little depending on how the new Agency is set up, it can become very important in the fight against black work and cross-border labour crime, which cannot be solved by individual nations alone. Then I have to say almost for my own part that Norway would be much more deserving of standing completely within half of it. We saw it in the debate on ACER, which was based on a model of the Nordic power market. We see it in the initiatives on equality and the balance between work and family life, and we see it in securing workers' rights. Norway, which so many countries regard as a model country for new solutions, should have an obvious place around the drawing board to design and secure these solutions – not to stand outside and criticise them.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2519	Free movement of workers is one of the four freedoms which are strongly enshrined in the EEA Agreement. The purpose of the EEA Agreement is to strengthen trade and the economic links between the parties. Norway is currently working closely with the EU through several work-related schemes, such as: social security coordination and the fight against undeclared work. Although some people clearly believe it, not everything around the EU and the EEA is negative. For Norway, this has been very positive. I would say that the EEA Agreement has been a strong contributor to our record growth in employment, contributed to high wages and helped to strengthen our public services, although Lundtigen claimed earlier today that the agreement was unsuccessful. Nothing suggests that the EU labour market agency, ELA, will have some autonomy. Nor does it indicate that there will be any changes in national labour market policy or that this will lead to any transfer of powers. On the other hand, this seems to fit well into our European cooperation against crime at work, so the ELA can well prove to be a useful tool in this work further. The proposals of the European Commission have not been adopted. The organisation is still under planning, it is to be dealt with both in the European Parliament and in the Council, and a possible start is in 2019. I note that the members of the Committee from the Central Party and the Socialist Left write in their comments on ‘Yes to the EU parties in the Committee’. I have tried to read through all the comments, and I do not find these ‘Yes to the EU parties’. If they have taken us with them then, I can only inform Lundtigen that in the Progress Party’s programme, there is no EU. But anyway, we could have called ourselves the EEA partners, I think that would have been more comprehensive, because most of us are for the EEA Agreement and what it has given us. The Council of State has announced that the Ministry will take a closer look at the proposal and keep the Stortinget informed about the matter. I think that once again this is a matter where we shouldn't draw conclusions until one thing is done, so I hope we can wait for further consideration and rather take the debate when the time comes, when we know what ELA is going to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2534	The EEA is not an isolated matter; it is a way to organise society. Through the EEA Agreement, Norway is linked to the four freedoms of market forces, the free movement of workers across borders between countries with very different conditions. Norway is the country with the highest real wages – an incredibly attractive country. As a result of this, good workers from countries with poor pay and working conditions and high unemployment come to Norway, and this changes over time throughout Norwegian working life. This also means that in practice elected representatives of the Grand Duchy will not be able to decide on the necessary policy measures to correct market forces. That is the consequence of the EEA Agreement. This is becoming clearer and clearer in the field of working life. I'm willing to admit that someone earns on this system, but most loses, and more and more loses. Differences are increasing, the practical professions are losing. The free movement is like a torpedo to Cohesion Norway. The alternative of the centre party is the regulated labour immigration where we can stop social dumping on the border. The Norwegian model is a social-democratic model that made it possible for us to control the capital forces, govern the content of private property rights. The EEA Agreement is becoming increasingly difficult, and this is the main cause of the crisis of the social democratic parties in Europe. The vice-president of the Labour Party, Hadia Tajik, said in the newspaper on 11 June that one would open the door for the Workers' Party to say no to a new EU agency, which we are now discussing. She says, ‘if it weakens our ability to regulate the labour market itself’. It is reasonably obvious that it will weaken, for the whole point of labour market agencies or other agencies is to bring about a more consistent policy. It is the common policy in the EU that needs to beimplemented, and it appears at first to benecessary to have no independent authority. Why on earth should a make up such an agency if it is not to have authority and power? That's probably not logical and not true. The reality is that there is harmonisation through different labour market instruments. It appears to us that and is an art where neither one shall lie nor tell the truth. Then comes the truth, but then the situation is different. I appeal to a more honest debate. The proposals put forward by the Central Party together with the SV, the proposals No. 2 and 3 are necessary proposals to ensure that Norwegian legislation overrides Norwegian law. I'll take up the suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2545	Then the representative Per Olav Lundtigen has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2550	When we now discuss the EU labour market agency, ELA, it is very important to think about our own trade union tradition and that it is not necessarily the same in other EU countries. There is a cross-political desire to see working conditions improve in Europe. Now, when we talk to our union friends abroad about what we're going to do in Norway to help them in their countries, they always say the same thing: Keep fighting. Then we can point to you and say it's useful. Norway is an example of what a society should look like. The EU's objective of harmonising legislation and legislation can be brought into conflict with Norwegian working life. Consequently, the issue of working life is taken out of the EEA Agreement. I am pleased that the Committee agrees that Norway will continue to have national legislation in this area in the future. But if there's one thing we've seen about the EEA agreement, the terms of the agreement change over time, maybe a little bit like a franchise agreement between a strong and a weaker party. We believe that the ELA could potentially contribute to the fight against social dumping and cross-border crime at work. But if it were to be used for anything more than that, it would mean that Norway has to make a reservation. Norwegian tariff agreements are some of the best in the world. Therefore, they must take precedence over the obligations that Norway will be able to fulfil in the ELA and in the context of the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2559	It is a bit unique that the Storting is now starting to debate this agency before there is a directive from the EU, and I think it is actually a positive development. Norway – if I think correctly – participates in 31 agencies as things are now. The debates about them have been varied in strength – and some have agreed, and others have voted out. And perhaps especially in Norway, the debate on the financial agency has given us some important lessons about what should be national legislation, and which should – at least from the point of view of the Christian People's Party – have been nationally regulated, and how one should then participate in the agency where one does not have the right to vote, which could be demanding. In our neighbouring countries, it is not the financial agency or the energy agency that has given priority to the largest commitment, but perhaps the agency that is now under seal after the Commission has presented its proposal. I have noted with interest the debate in Sweden, where a majority in Parliament have chosen to say that they feel that the proposal from the European Commission is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. This is a multiple of several things. The Christian Democrats, the Swedish Democrats and the Moderates, who have chosen to call for decisions to be taken at national and regional level rather than at EU level, and have chosen to make decisions on this in Parliament. I am a little bit so that I think this is a directive which is still under seal and which can clearly have some positive effects, as it has been highlighted earlier in the debate. There is a need for better and more coordinated action against social dumping and against undeclared work, and if such an agency can be a help towards it, it may be very important. What is important for the Christian People's Party in this debate is that we are given a clear signal that the Norwegian model and the way in which we regulate our labour market should be established. It should be governed as it is being done now, and it should not be something that – like what Parliament has said – is being done at a European level. I found it very positive that the Storting has now moved in a direction where we are beginning to get started earlier with the debates on the directives that will sooner or later come to mind. That's what I thought was very important. But when I have said that and when I have stressed what is the Christian People's Party's view of this, I will also inform you that the Christian People's Party will not support any of the proposals. The Labour Party's proposals have a lot of good intentions, but I feel that these are things like a big deal and a government regardless of such a proposal will have to decide. It's the whole job of a magnificence and a government to review these directives and put them into context when we see what's actually coming on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2572	Proposals are concerned with the importance of tripartite cooperation in Norwegian working life. It's an engagement I of course share in full. Tripartite cooperation is also central to the fight against crime at work. The aim of the proposal for a new European labour market agency – ELA – is to contribute to fair labour mobility in the internal market. The Commission recognises that there are challenges related to compliance and enforcement of EU rules in this area. It can put confidence in, and justice in, the internal market to the test. Mobile workers may be vulnerable to exploitation. As examples of the challenges, the Commission refers to insufficient information sharing and cooperation between authorities in the different countries. In particular, difficulties in organising cross-border joint oversight and non-coordination on the EU side are highlighted. These challenges address the proposal for a European labour market agency. This is precisely why I believe that the creation of such an agency can be a positive contribution to the fight against cross-border labour-life crime. The proposal fits well with the government's initiative towards the European Commission on strengthening European cooperation against crime at work. At the same time, we in Norway have also underlined our view that the new Agency must respect national authority and the autonomy of the parties. At the meeting of the European Committee of the Regions on 29 May, I expressed my preliminary assessment that the proposal as it stands today does not involve any refusal of authority. Nor do I understand that the proposal would interfere with Norwegian collective bargaining agreements or the autonomy of the parties. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, in cooperation with the departments concerned, is working to further clarify these issues, including the issue of waiver of powers, which will be submitted to the Legal Department of the Ministry of Justice and Defence. Of course, I will follow developments in the matter carefully and keep the Storting informed on an ongoing basis, but as the matter is preliminary, I see no reason for concern. On the contrary, I believe that this proposal can be a positive contribution to combating cross-border labour crime and reducing the level of social dumping.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2590	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2595	The Council of State says to the Newspaper today that there is no reason to fear the new labour market agency. Neither does the Workers' Party, but we take some reservations in the matter, and the Council of State also said to the Newspaper today that she is with Sweden and Denmark in demanding that the nation states be respected. That's very good. But then I wonder what the council thinks about her sister party in Sweden, which says that the labour market agency involves too much interference in the Swedish labour market model, and, as we heard earlier here, a breach of the principle of subsidiarity.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2600	I see that there is a slightly different view of this in the Swedish parliament, between the government parties on the one hand and the parliament on the other, but I do not agree from the Norwegian side that this is an unreasonable intervention in Norway. On the contrary, I believe that what is now from the EU is far from what can be called a refusal of authority. To a large extent, it is a question of bringing together some of the existing schemes under the same roof, i.e., EURES, social security coordination, etc., insofar as there are disagreements between national states, information sharing and the rights and obligations of workers and employers. So the presentation that I have received from the European Union so far and that we have also been deepened in conversation with the Commissioner suggests that as it is now, there is no need for concern. On the contrary, I believe that the sovereignty and authority of the nation states are respected, in the preliminary proposal, at least.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2605	The Workers’ Party’s proposal, the last part of it, states that the government ‘must underline to the EU that proposals which impair the Norwegian ability to regulate labour by law or tripartite cooperation itself will result in Norway’s reservation’. I perceive that much of what the Council of State says both in its article and in the answer here now is that she is working for Norway to have total sovereignty in the field of working life, while the Council of State says to the Newspaper today that the Workers' Party sees ‘fears on the bright day’. What does the Council of State think is the difference between her own approach to the matter and the Labour Party's proposal in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2610	I feel that the Workers' Party appears to be a little overly concerned about what ELA is going to be, and when you also start talking about reservation already now, I think it's worrying about what it's going to be. I can also confirm that I will, of course, do what I can to the EU, with the limitations of non-membership, of course – we have to ask nicely for permission to meet. Fortunately, however, we are meeting a benevolent European Union, which also opens the door to us, and we are also cooperating with our Nordic colleagues. We did not long ago have a meeting of the Nordic Council of Ministers where we all signed a joint declaration that we sent to the Commission, stressing the importance of respecting the sovereignty of the nation states and the Nordic model of working life, etc. So, of course, we're still going to do what we can to influence development, but for the time being, I believe that the ELA, as presented, will be an important instrument in the fight against cross-border labour crime, and that should also be the focus of this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2615	At least the Central Party and I are concerned with cross-border crime and have made many proposals in connection with it. What's interesting here is that the Council of State says that the ELA will not imply a waiver of authority and that it will not interfere with tariff agreements. She's not worried. The representative of the Progress Party says that there will be no maritime authority. In my opinion, these are quite eloquent statements. What's going to be the checkpoint for all of this is why the government can't support the Central Party's proposal No. 2, which is: ‘The government is asked to ensure that Norwegian collective agreements and Norwegian labour law are given precedence over Norway’s obligations that could be part of the EU labour market agency ELA [[European Labour Authority]] It is quite obvious that with the opinions of both the Progress Party and the Right State Council, there should be no problem in supporting the proposal of the Centre Party. Can we expect support now?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2625	It is almost interesting to hear the representative's questions in the light of the debate we just had on the importance of keeping internationally agreed agreements and obligations. That's the one. The second is that I can't quite see that that proposal from the Central Party is relevant to what the ELA is actually going to be about. Much of the ELA is about bringing together some of the already existing agencies under the same roof — the social security coordination, EURES and others. It's about having to argue between the nation states where there's disagreement. It is about ensuring common and better enforcement of the legislation, which is very much in Norway’s interest, precisely because much of the legislation is also designed to prevent social dumping and exploitation of workers. And it's about improving information about the rights and obligations of employees and employers. However, this Agency has not yet been fully developed. It's not done yet. We have to come back when it's done.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2630	We in the Centre Party are aware that the Agency has not been fully developed. There is a great deal in the EU that has not yet been developed, all these agencies – there is a dynamic in it – that still need a greater authority to implement what is the big project, namely a common economic policy. My question is: if this is what the Council of State says, that these are related to the crime of working life and such conditions, which do not involve any government renunciation and do not involve intervention in collective agreements, why cannot the Council of State then join the proposal of the Centre Party, that ‘The Government is asking the Government to ensure that collective agreements and Norwegian labour law are given priority over Norway’s obligations which could be included in the EU labour market agency ELA’ in the future? It is quite obvious that, according to what the Council of State has now said, there should be no problem, with the cautious wording we have in the proposal of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2637	Of course, I cannot stand here and say that Norwegian collective agreements, regardless of their content, should be able to trump international agreements and obligations. That won't be possible. However, I cannot see that the proposals in the proposal for a representative are relevant to what this agency is likely to be about. And that's what we should be discussing: what is this agency going to be about? That's not what's in the proposal, as ELA has been presented so far. I think it is good for Norway that there are common driving rules; it is good for Norway to harmonise them. The fact that higher standards are also used in European employment is an advantage for Norway and Norwegian enterprises. The higher the standards that are set for European enterprises, the better for Norwegian competitiveness. For Norway, good access to the European market and access to labour is also an advantage, with respect to reporting. There is now a great deal of regulation in Europe that is also beneficial to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2644	If the Storting is to have a relevant discussion about these matters, be in the forefront and actually affect the processes, we depend on the government to inform the Storing about what this actually means. I think the starting point in the discussion around the ELA is whether you should have dispute resolution competence. There is the wording chosen by the Commission, somewhat unclear, and we know that there are different views among the Member States on whether to have such a competence, or whether it should be up to the Member States themselves to decide whether to follow the decisions taken by the Agency, if two countries disagree on how to interpret legislation. Has the Council of State been involved in the positions of the various countries in relation to this, so that the current process can actually be affected before the book is closed and the EU takes a decision? This is what this case is about — that Norway is using its ability to influence the process.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2649	This will obviously be one of the issues that will certainly be debated quite a lot in the EU too — to what extent it should be voluntary or not follow up the decisions taken. Many people may feel that it is up to the Member States themselves to assess what is to be followed up, precisely because they believe that it is the nation state itself to decide. I have no idea which countries mean what, and I don't know whether all countries have started to deal with this thoroughly yet, but very often the Nordic countries are quite together on the approach to issues like this, and we have very often also with the United Kingdom. Now, unfortunately, they're on their way out, and we're losing an important ally in this work. But at least I can guarantee the representative of Grande that, on our side, we will use the opportunities we have to influence and talk with European colleagues – within the limits that it is possible, of course, for a non-member to join.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2655	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2660	The proposal put forward by the Central Party is that Norwegian collective bargaining agreements and Norwegian labour law should be given priority over commitments that could be included in the EU labour market agency, ELA. It is of particular importance to establish the principle, particularly when it is the opposite principle that applies in general within the EEA Agreement, namely that it is the EU rules implemented by the EEA Agreement, which prevail over Norwegian law and the Norwegian Constitution. However, the proposal proposed by the Central Party will not be committed by the EEA members of the Storting despite the fact that a unanimous LO Congress has decided that the same principle applies to the entire field of work – they have adopted it twice – despite the fact that, according to the Newspaper of the Labour Party, the Vice-Chairman will say no ‘if it weakens our ability to regulate employment itself’, and despite the fact that the Council of State says we have nothing to fear, according to the same newspaper. If that is the point of view, a very precise vote for our proposal should indicate a clear and clear preference for national legislation. Unfortunately, this goes into a pattern that we have seen in several other cases, at the latest when dealing with the Acer case. The working party goes out loud and clearly and imposes so-called mandatory requirements, or what is mentioned in the room here as a reservation. The government calms and sends letters to the EU, while being prepared to submit to a system in which the EU decides the rules, the EU decides on the further development of the rules, and we have no guarantee of future developments. So we are subject to a system based on the free movement of goods, services, capital and labour and an agency that is to negotiate and settle disputes in cross-border conflicts. We don't have to go further than to our neighboring country. Several have referred to the opinions of the Swedish Parliament and the Labour Market Committee there. However, what has not been pointed out so far is that the labour market committee is concerned precisely because the Agency is intended to negotiate and settle disputes, and because it is to report from national teams to the European Commission. The Committee notes that there is a risk that the Agency may conflict with the national labour market models. It is therefore the evaluation as of today by the Labour Market Committee in the Swedish Parliament. That is why it is crucial – the acidiest is whether one is willing to vote in favour of our proposal, which clearly clarifies that national labour law and collective agreements should have priority in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2671	The EU labour market agency has important tasks in a Europe where the movement of labour between countries is increasing. For Norway, foreign workers are important for many sectors, especially during seasons, where European workers are in short-term employment. On the government side, the tax system for non-resident workers in the short term was now simplified by the introduction of a withholding tax scheme. We know that too many people are not taxed correctly, and choosing a simpler model of taxation is our hope that more workers are properly taxed. This Agency aims to bring different actors that are otherwise in the EU system together into a more comprehensive structure. The main task of the Agency is to ensure compliance with the legislation adopted by the EU, a legislation that affects the working life of millions of Europeans. With this Agency, the aim is to make it easier for people and businesses to obtain information about the rights and obligations they have when working or staying in other Member States. The Agency may contribute to more effective supervision and controls, which may detect fraud and abuse. The government itself shows that this is fully in line with the Norwegian initiative to combat labour-life crime. Nor shall the Agency settle any disagreements between countries, but it shall facilitate the establishment of a mediation process that will lead to a common interpretation between the countries. Norway has already shown that the new Agency must respect national competences in this area and that it must not be able to make binding decisions for EEA countries. The government's assessment so far is that this does not involve any transfer of authority, and I noticed that the government will keep Stortinget informed, whose further assessment suggests otherwise. The majority of the Committee points out that this Agency will so far not intervene in either tripartite cooperation or national labour market policy. It's important to underline this. There is no reason to follow up the unnecessary heating up of the Central Party's discussion. There is a picture of what this agency is supposed to contribute, which is not rooted in the actual reality. However, I will end by saying that this Agency must be a simplification of the work and work done in other parts of the EU. I'm always skeptical of increased bureaucracy and heavier processes. I note that the European trade union movement seems to be in favour of this proposal, and if there are concerns about the workers of the Central Party, it is strange that their representatives are so far on the way to the proposal. The EEA Agreement has served Norwegian economic interests well and at the same time ensures many important regulations in the field of working life, which in many cases have also strengthened the rights of workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2692	This matter and the debate probably show why it is important that the Storting should get on the road more quickly on important EU issues, because here we see that the EEA opponents and the sharpest EEA supporters are falling into their initial positions and staying there, reading the case solely on the basis of their primary position in the EEA as such. It is a weakness for Norwegian policy and for Stortinget that we rarely manage to get beyond just those initial positions. That is why the Workers' Party has ordered its own independent investigation here at Stortinget, because we often see that assessments relating to such matters are coloured by the government's political views on the matter. As a result, it is difficult to get the correct information about what the case actually involves. What we have so far found in that investigation is that there is doubt about one point in particular, and that is with dispute resolution competence. Here, the Council of State says that there is no reason to believe that what is currently in process in the EU will involve any refusal of authority. But it's actually unclear. The text of the Commission is unclear on this point, and we know that a number of EU countries are now working hard to ensure that such dispute resolution competence is created, which means that mediation between two or more countries on important issues will, if it is introduced, result in a lack of authority from Norwegian authorities and a lack of self-regulation of this area by its own legislation. Should we have waited until the government promoted the cause of the Storting, we should have waited until after the process in the European Parliament has ended. Then there is ‘take it or leave it’, and Norwegian debate has often ended. We cannot risk that in such an important matter. We saw it in connection with ACER, that the government involved Stortinget too late, but in addition added to the actual errors in its argument against Stortinget, which had to be adjusted, and where the Workers' Party had to go active and intervene in order to clear up the matter. We cannot accept that in several EU cases. We believe that by sending a clear signal to the EU, as we propose, that if there are issues that challenge tripartite cooperation or Norwegian ability to regulate labour policy through legislation, Norway should reserve itself. We'll be able to influence the process. There will be a clear signal to our Nordic neighbours, but also to other EU countries, where Norway stands, and that we do not join if we go into this. That is why we also believe that the proposals No. 2 and 3 from the Center Party and SV, are completely redundant. Because if the fear that you think makes you have to ask for a primacy becomes a reality, we shouldn't go into this. This is not the case either.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2703	The proposal from the Center Party is not superfluous. It is the proposal of the Central Party that goes to the heart of this problem. It is this way that the European Commission has presented a proposal for a regulation establishing a European labour market action. I think it is quite interesting to listen to this debate when one on the one hand hears from both government councils and government representatives that it is unique that the Stortinget is debating a directive that has not yet been discussed, that the Council of State says that this directive is not fully developed, it is under seal, and therefore we cannot take the problems ahead, while arguing as if one knows everything, that one knows that this directive will not have consequences for national legislation. A reference to the body providing better information on rights and obligations relating to labour mobility, promoting cooperation in the enforcement of relevant EU legislation and joint supervision between national supervisory authorities and brokering and facilitating solutions in the event of disagreement between Member States. At the same time, however, one says that this directive has not yet been developed, and then there will be a very strange debate when one can get the impression that we are debating the directive itself today. We're out of experience early, because we know that when it comes to the problem, this might be about giving up national authority. The Council of State also writes in the letter to the Committee that one from Norway has ‘emphasized our view that the new body must respect national authority.’ If one was absolutely sure that the new body would not be a threat to it, why does the Council itself write it in its letter to the Committee? The proposal from the Central Party should be able to vote in favour of the entire Stortinget. It is quite simple, quite clear: ‘The government is asked to ensure that Norwegian collective agreements and Norwegian labour law are given precedence over Norway’s obligations that could be part of the EU labour market agency ELA [[European Labour Authority]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2717	The representative, Wang Soleim, showed positive effects of labour immigration. Well, labour immigration has had to Norway for a long time, long before it got to the EEA Agreement. What was new with the EEA Agreement was that a non-regulated immigration of labour was obtained, where EU rules prevail over Norwegian rules in the field of working life. To the scheme he referred to in respect of withholding taxes on non-resident workers: there is a complete innovation in the revised national budget. Thus, an optional scheme is provided whereby non-resident workers can choose the type of tax to which they are subject, whichever gives the lowest tax for themselves — a privilege to which Norwegian workers are not subject. There will be a tax subsidy on foreign workers of 50 million. kr, according to the government’s own figures, which will further create challenges for Norwegian workers in Norwegian employment. To the representative of Grande, who believes that some parties go to the trenches in this case: what I did in my previous post was to refer to what the Swedish Parliament, that is, the Labour Market Committee there, has decided, and what kind of opinion you have given. It is an opinion that, among other things: The party's sister party in Sweden and also the representative of Wang Soleim's sister party in Sweden are behind, as well. states that it is not clear that the Agency will provide any added value. The Committee is concerned about increased administration and work. One believes the proposal violates the principle of subsidiarity. The proposal for the Agency to negotiate sees the Committee as particularly problematic. That's what we're serious about. So no one can say that one sitting with the fasit today on what the European Union adopts to the seventh and last, but what we know is that what the European Union has proposed is not a directive, as some have said here earlier today, it is a regulation that, if Norway accepts it, must be implemented directly in Norwegian law. That is why it is important to be on guard, and it is therefore important to identify some clear markers, namely what the Centre has proposed, that Norwegian labour law and Norwegian collective bargaining agreements should take precedence over the obligations that might arise from participation in the EU labour market agency. It would be wise if there were grounds for further treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2734	Today, we have seen the struggle of the Centre Party against the EEA Agreement for full-time here from the pulpit. Then I would like to remind you that Norway is a small, open economy where both the private and public sectors need people, need labour, to complete the tasks we are going to do. Business needs market access. Without market access provided by the EEA Agreement, we would have a weakened growth in Norway and lower employment, especially in the districts. 80 pst. Norwegian exports go to EU countries. The EU, and Norway, through the EEA Agreement, are working on global policy issues such as climate policy, labour crime and trade policy – issues on which international cooperation is clearly needed. This is what the Center Party is constantly fighting, whether we are discussing port workers, posted workers or the fight against labour crime. Everything is about resistance to the EEA Agreement. And that's all of us who don't understand anything. The representative Lundtigen wants an honest debate, but said in his speech that the main purpose of the labour market agency is to have a unified labour market policy. That's not right. I would like to encourage the Center Party to take a study trip into the district, perhaps to the West, for example. to Bømlo, where only one of the many fishing establishments has hundreds of fish processing jobs and they depend entirely on market access to the European market. The size of the building last week adopted a strong grip on the rental from the manning industry. This shows that we have a room for action in the EEA Agreement, in particular on working life. The working party believes it needs to be exploited better. We're going to keep doing that in this hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2745	I could say a lot about the article to Gülsvik, but I leave it there for now, because I heard something else here from the pulpit that is far more serious. It is simply very serious what the representative of Grande is saying here from this pulpit, because it is therefore the opinion of the representative of Grande that the assessments of EEA law issues, including transfer of powers, by the Department of Law and the Government are coloured by the government that sits. Is it, then, that in all matters relevant to the EEA, the Workers' Party is to use the Storting Investigation Section for an assessment in the future? It simply reminds us of a complete mistrust of the leading lawyers in the administration, namely in the Ministry of Justice's law department, a law department upon which the Workers' Party itself, when they were in government, relied in its judgements. In that case, it is very serious. In addition, if you put such a policy into practice, you move the investigation responsibility and the assessment responsibility from the government to this house. Who shall then be responsible for the assessments made, if the Workers' Party always needs an assessment No. Two? I think it's very serious. In addition, one might say: Where does the representative of Grande think that the investigation department is getting its factual information from? It is our sharpest professionals in the departments who contribute that factual information. If this is a line on which the Workers’ Party has opted, they should go up to this interlocutory and say that all EEA-relevant acts which are to enter into Norwegian law in the future where the transfer of powers is a matter should also be assessed by the Storting Investigation Section and that they do not take into account any assessment carried out by the sharpest lawyers in the Legal Service. In such a case, it is very serious and alarming that the Workers' Party does not believe that the government's law department and the government present to the Stortinget are the unwarranted and correct assessment, to the best of its ability. Then it is time to ask the question: Is this how the Workers' Party did it, that the law department's assessments when they came to the house were colored by who was in government?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2752	The representative Eigil Knutsen said that we need people, that we need more people than we have in Norway to do the job. I fully agree with that. That's perfectly obvious. But the way we're going to get more people to do the jobs in Norway is through regulated labour immigration, combined with fixed-term employment, whether it's full-time or part-time, in the companies. Then we get a well-organized working life. Vetle Wang Soleim said there was no transfer of authority. What we know so far, said the representative, is that it does not conflict with tripartite cooperation, that it does not conflict with labour law. Well, there's so much doubt about it. As the representative of Grande said, there is doubt about the solution to the dispute. But what was important in the contributions of the representative, Vetle Wang Soleim, was what we know so far. And that's what's the review melody about the issue of the EEA Agreement, that it's dynamic, and it's not Norway that decides where to stand, it's the EU countries. We just have to take over the decision that is being made, and it is a dynamic that is moving towards ever deeper integration. With the tone-giving forces that we have in the parties in the various states of the European Union today, it is moving towards ever deeper integration. Questions can be asked about how long the cancers are strong enough to continue this deep integration, but that is at least the whole point. It is obvious that the ELA will have authority and – from experience – increasing authority. It's not going to be established as a paper tiger. The creation of a body without authority is, of course, completely irrational. The centre party is pleased that the Labour Party's Labour Spokesman Grande boasts us about the debate early, but Grande says that we, as EEA opponents, are only going into our starting positions. No, we're not really doing that, because what we're dealing with in proposal No. Three, of course, is LO's vision, and proposal No. 2 is a position that the Workers' Party should agree to because it is entirely in accordance with what the Workers' Party says on streets and disputes. I notice that the representative of Grande says that our proposals are superfluous, that they are not relevant. So the impression is that one is for the proposals, but will not support them anyway. It's something special, but we're taking the positive forward in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2763	The representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2769	The representative Knutsen went to the pulpit here and said that the centre party is using every opportunity to fight against the EEA Agreement. The Centre Party points to the concrete consequences of the EEA Agreement in the matters dealt with by the Storting – the consequences it has for Norwegian port workers, the right of preference that one no longer has, like a struggle to get into Norwegian law or regulation, the consequence that one has through unregulated immigration, which one sees the consequences of in ever-new professions. In this case, it is the Central Party that follows up the position of a unanimous LO Congress on two occasions, namely that Norwegian collective agreements, Norwegian labour law and ILO conventions should prevail over EU laws in Norway. We are following this up with regard to the EU Labour Market Agency, and it is very special that the Labour Party is not willing to vote for this in the Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2776	The difference between our proposal and the Central Party and SV's proposal No. 2 and No 3 is that the last two consider that we are going to implement the regulation, and that we are going to go into ELA, while we say that if anything comes at all that threatens Norway's ability to regulate its own labour policy, that threatens tripartite cooperation, or that involves any form of renunciation, we are not going to implement the regulation, and we are not going to go into ELA. That's the whole difference. If there were any such proposals from the EU, the response from Norway – if our proposal had been given a majority – would be no, and therefore there would be no need to have a job which would mean giving any priority to the labour market agency, because we are simply not going into it. That is why I believe that the Senterpartiet and the SV themselves should see that their proposals are superfluous and vote for our proposal, which sends a clear marshaller to the government. So the right was up here and made it high and dark in view of the investigation we've ordered, and that it should be so problematic that I said that assessments from a government related to how to deal with questions from ESA, for example, are colored by the political view of the government. It is quite obvious that we have seen many examples in recent years — from several governments — that this is the case, and whether one is willing to take the fight and the discussion with ESA, or whether one wants to lay flat for them. We have examples like the KLP case, the fall-back issue in terms of hydropower, where ESA came up with a position when we were in government, and the red-green government challenged ESA's position on the fall-back and got an impact – clearly a political view, a political assessment of what came from ESA. When today's government said to Stortinget that it would be impossible to introduce zero VAT for the media, because then ESA would react, said the Stortinget: not to mention, we're going to have this done, you're going to have to start that process with ESA. It worked, and you didn't meet any problems at all. We've seen that, for example. on the question of value added tax for cultural buildings, whether there may be sheltered bidding rounds for ideals, that it is often characterised by the political position of a government. Therefore, we believe that in such an important question as this, we need to order our own investigation from the Stortinget in order to clarify what the facts are – which I believe today's debate has shown us that we need to get. That is why I am pleased that the government parties also refer to the very same investigation in their comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2787	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2792	I can assure the Workers' Party that the Senter Party, with its proposals, has not arranged to enter the ELA. It's quite innocuous for the representative to bring it. What we want with our two proposals is to clarify in Stortinget our position, our positions – that is, the position and positions of the Storing – which will be based on government towards the EU when the issue is discussed. This is what the Workers' Party knows, but it has been difficult for the Workers' Party to support. It's sad, but so far a fact. I hope the debate will lead to the Workers' Party joining the proposals that have been promoted by the Central Party, which are in line with the position of the LO Congress.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2797	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2813	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2822	In a proposal for a representative, Mr Olaug V. Bollestad, Mr Kjerkol and Mr Wilkinson took the initiative to ask the government to investigate and propose amendments to the Tobacco Damage Act. The aim is to prevent a new generation from becoming dependent on tobacco. In the proposal they also ask for changes to the law to make more arenas in society tobacco-free, and to strengthen the protection against passive smoking. The World Health Organisation has estimated that one in three cancer cases can be prevented. We can do this, for example: make through better diet and good lifestyles. The overall objectives of public health policy in Norway say that we should be among the three countries of the world with the highest life expectancy, that the population should experience more years of life with good health, well-being and reduced social health differences, and that a society should be created that promotes health throughout the population. The national cancer strategy for the period 2018–2022 states that Norway should become a leading country for cancer prevention. It also states that work aimed at known risk factors for cancer, such as: tobacco, to be continued. The aim of the national cancer strategy is to combat cancer prevention in terms of social inequalities in health. We know that reducing tobacco consumption will help promote this objective. Tobacco use also increases the likelihood of developing a number of diseases other than cancer. In the past, the size of the population has set the goal of reducing tobacco consumption by 30 pst. Tobacco use is the single factor that contributes most to premature death and social differences in the population. Clear targets and measures are needed to further reduce consumption and to prevent children and young people from starting tobacco. It is also important to protect the population against passive smoking. The majority of the Committee, i.e. all except the members of the Progress Party, consider that it is necessary to consider further tightening up Norwegian legislation in order to prevent a new generation from becoming dependent on tobacco and to protect the population to a greater extent than at present from tobacco damage caused by passive smoking. As a conservative person with faith in the freedom of individuals, I think that the proposal for further tightening up the Tobacco Damage Act is a dilemma. Where do the limits of the individual's freedom go versus when the big society is going to override the individual? I don't believe in the ban on the sale of tobacco or the ban on smoking, but I believe in my freedom to avoid being passive smokers in public places. In other words, we need to strike a balance between individual freedom and public health. This balance sheet will be considered when we are given proposals for changes to the law. The majority of the Health and Welfare Committee is behind the proposal for a decision that the Storting should ask the Government «investigate and propose amendments to the Tobacco Injury Act aimed at preventing a new generation from becoming dependent on tobacco, and aim to make more arenas in society tobacco-free and to strengthen the protection against passive smoking».
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2844	Tobacco consumption is the single factor that contributes most to premature death and social health differences. On 15 May this year, the Public Health Institute presented the report on the state of health in Norway. There we can read that the smoking has gone down, but still smokes 10 pst. of adults daily. We can also read that snuff today is the dominant form of tobacco for younger groups, and that one in five aged 16 to 24 snuffs. Pulmonary cancer continues to increase in women and is the disease that accounts for the most smoking-related deaths. Smoking has been identified as a particularly important cause of social health differences, mortality differences and life expectancy differences in Norway. Smoking is the most common way of life in the form of heart and cancer, lung cancer, coals and other smoking-related diseases. Every five deaths before age 70 are caused by smoking. Then I believe that the representative proposal is in place. Fortunately, tobacco consumption has fallen. Stiff politicians dare to make unpopular decisions that have had an impact. The Labour Party wants effective measures to improve public health and prevent new generations from becoming dependent on tobacco. That is why we are behind the proposal. In her letter of reply, the Minister for Older People and Public Health writes that she supports the opinion of the proposers that we need to assess new and effective measures to reduce tobacco use. In addition, the Council of State writes that the Ministry is already working well on a new tobacco strategy. It is striking that the same party does not support the Committee's position that proposals for amendments to the Tobacco Injury Act should be examined, with the aim of preventing a new generation from becoming dependent on tobacco. I am pleased that there is a broad political majority, with the exception of the Progress Party, which is in agreement and which is behind this position. I think that's important if we're going to get somewhere in public health work, and I hope that we'll see more of it in public health matters in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2857	There is no doubt that smoking is one of the main reasons why many people die of cancer today. That is why we very much agree with many of the points made by the Committee, but we do not support the proposal. It is based on the fact that the debate has shown that there are some parties who are very happy with the foreshadowing, injunction and ban line, and who have been out there and expressed their views on what they are thinking about this. I want to remind this assembly that the last ten years are fortunately the share that smokes, halved, from 22 pst. to 11 pst. So that means that this goes down. I fully agree with the intention of preventing new groups of children and young people starting with smoke, tobacco and cigarettes. But then it's good to see what the SSB statistics say. It says that very few young people between the ages of 16 and 24 smoke daily. It's because young people don't think it's hip, young people don't think it's cool to smoke. It's actually "out" to smoke. That’s very good – it’s good for the health of Norwegians. We see that there is a sharp reduction, and we have some of the world's strictest laws and regulations in this area. So we're doing a lot to reduce usage. When we look at the statistics, it's the oldest people who smoke the most, and when you see that the kids don't, the probability is great that future generations are going to smoke less, and that's very good for health. But there are other areas that I think it's so important to think about working in a targeted way. It's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going And of course, reducing alcohol, sugar and fat and increasing activity are important things to work with. That's some of the reasons. We could probably have supported a lot. We are mostly involved in the comments of the committee and in the vote. But I feel that someone interprets the proposal that lies there, that you no longer think only of children and young people, but you actually want more extensive reductions. We've been in debates and discussions with other parties. That is why we are voting against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2870	I almost have to admit that I have been and still am a major follower of the Smoking Act. Knowing the extent of the health damage related to tobacco, both for tobacco users and for those who are exposed to passive smoking, further action is needed to reduce the use of tobacco. We have to protect those who are exposed to passive smoking, and work for the youth not to start using tobacco. This may be a question of accessibility, but it is also a question of positive measures, of motivational measures leading to a cultural change in young people, which can reduce tobacco consumption. But there are different types of tobacco — not just smoking. I look forward to a proposal for a change to the Tobacco Injury Act aimed at preventing a new generation from becoming dependent on tobacco, that we have more tobacco-free areas and better protection against passive smoking. I would like to comment on the articles of the Progress Party. It would have been nice if the Progress Party had any alternative proposals when we know about the extent of the health damage related to tobacco, but there have been no alternative proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2881	The Christian People's Party wants people to let go of passive smoking, and we believe that it must be a clear goal to prevent a new generation from smoking. The Christian People's Party has promoted this proposal together with the Workers' Party and EN precisely because we want changes to the Tobacco Damage Act. Smoking is one of the main causes of sudden death. Smoking is one of the causes of most lives lost. That is why this is an incredibly important public health measure. The Tobacco Damage Act, for most people known as the ‘Smoking Act’, has proved to have a major impact on public health. Now is the time to extend the law to prevent a new generation from becoming dependent on tobacco, and to protect people more than today from tobacco damage caused by passive smoking. The Christian People's Party is very pleased that all parties in the Committee, except the Progress Party, will today take decisions asking the government to investigate and propose amendments to the Tobacco Injury Act with the aim of preventing a new generation from becoming dependent on tobacco, and with the aim of making more arenas in society tobacco-free and strengthening the protection against passive smoking. The Christian People's Party has for its part pointed out that we want more smoke-free zones, so that people who do not smoke can not be exposed to the smoking of others. What the Storting will gather about from new measures to meet the targets will become apparent when the government returns with proposals for the Storting. Then someone will ask why there is a need for stricter regulation. Although the Progress Party is opposed and opposed to the Smoking Act in its time, and also in the previous period was opposed to neutral tobacco packages, we know that this is a proper responsibility for public health. We know that it can help and prevent, it can prevent damage, instead of repairing damage. Besides, it's important to bear in mind that passive smoking is something we don't choose. We believe that one person's freedom to smoke anywhere, cannot thwart another person's freedom from passive smoking. The Christian People's Party at Dagfinn Højbråten went in front, was courageous and contributed to major changes in the tobacco injury law. The result is a strong decline in smoking in Norway, the most dramatic decrease in smoking throughout the OECD. The ban on smoking helps to explain much of the attitude of new generations towards smoke and that they smoke less. But it does not relieve us of the responsibility to go further in that direction, because it is one of the greatest public health challenges we have and that it is most reasonable to have action on with the best effect. With this in mind, we are behind the Committee's attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2902	There's something healthy about the smoking debates we've had and have had here to the country over the last decades. There has almost been a unanimous agreement that restrictions on tobacco use are a political responsibility, not just a responsibility to be imposed on each individual. Some of us have been through smoking on television – on air, until there was no air left – smoking on planes, smoking on trains – via odorous smoking rooms to the tip of smoking patients that other patients had to meet on their way to the hospital. We have been through the persistent efforts of tobacco manufacturers to discredit irrevocable scientific evidence. Fortunately, it is now the end of the time when the doctor smoked in his office. And at every debate we have heard that this is enough. The SV proposal is good and fortunately gets a majority. Now we have to take a new step towards a smoke-free society. So there is not a single word about guardianship in the proposal that is being adopted today. My vision is that maybe once we get there that even the debates on tobacco go up in smoke. Now there's only a few blocks left before we get there.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2909	Although we have achieved good results in tobacco prevention in Norway, efforts need to be stepped up in some areas. Smoking continues to be the main single cause of illness and premature death, and continues to consume a total of over one million Norwegians. The ministry is working well on a new tobacco strategy, and I intend to present it during the autumn. I support that view that we need to assess new and effective measures to reduce tobacco use. However, I would like to remind you that regulation is not the only means of achieving this. Experience shows that broad efforts are important in the context of coherent action and reinforcing one another. Other important instruments are e.g.: school programmes, information and awareness campaigns, tobacco withdrawal assistance, etc. With regard to the specific proposal for a possible change to the Tobacco Injury Act, this is something I would like to assess in more detail in my strategy. The fact that we have to try to prevent children from becoming dependent on tobacco is a cross-political agreement that children must be protected from passive smoking as well. No one disagrees that those who want help to stop need to get it. It is not in principle in line with the policy of the Progress Party to lay down legal regulations that restrict the freedom of individuals, but in terms of tobacco use, we must bear in mind that this freedom is limited by strong physical and mental dependence. Most people start with tobacco as minors and don't understand the consequences of their choices. As Minister of Public Health, I am in charge of the government's tobacco policy, which is that rather than intervene in people's freedom, tobacco products and the tobacco industry should be regulated. I note, however, that the bulk of the population wants an extension of the smoking ban to be investigated. It is an important principle for me that one's freedom does not go at the expense of others. Postponing and exposing children to tobacco smoke is not a freedom that is worth protecting. I therefore have no objections to assessing changes in the Tobacco Damage Act, but I believe that the various measures should be seen in the context of the new tobacco strategy. That's how they work best. In any case, we agree on the need for a tobacco-free generation of young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2924	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2929	I have a question: Is the Council of State in agreement with the Progress Party in Stortinget? The step-by-step party in Stortinget does not agree with the proposal and does not agree with the comment that: ‘It is necessary to consider further tightening up Norwegian legislation in order to prevent a new generation from becoming dependent on tobacco and to protect the population more than at present from tobacco damage caused by passive smoking’. So the party of progress does not support this, nor does it support the proposal. Can the Council of State guarantee to the Stortinget that the Council of State of the Progress Party will implement and follow up what the Stortinget decides today, i.e. to consider tightening up Norwegian legislation further to prevent a new generation from becoming dependent on tobacco?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2942	Of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2947	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2965	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2974	As the rapporteur, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the Committee for a good cooperation, and not least for having been so well received when I get here, just before the summer, and getting involved in these matters. So to the matter: The Legal Genetics Centre, RGS, in Tromsø was established in the context of the 2007 reform, as a supplement to the Forensic Institute, the RMI. This was the result of Stortinget's decision to extend access to DNA profiles. Today, RGS carries out research and development of competences, but still does not carry out analyses in criminal matters. A working group set up by the Ministry of Health and Welfare in spring 2013, consisting of representatives of the main professional communities in the field, delivered its report, ‘Organisation of justice genetic services in criminal law context’. Three out of four models in the report conclude that the RGS is to carry out DNA analyses of trace samples. Many have suggested that Norway needs an environment no. 2 in the case of DNA analyses. First State Attorney Lars Fause in Troms and Finnmark states that there is a clear need for RGS to carry out such analyses. I am pleased that a joint committee agrees on some important proposals. I'm not going to frame all the proposals, because they're in the vote. I am also pleased that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the SV and the Christian People's Party ensure a majority in favour of the proposal that the Judicial Genetics Centre can deliver 10-25 pst. of the analyses needed. I would also like to be able to agree to ensure that legal-genetic tasks continue to be handled by public actors, as proposed by the Central Party, the Workers' Party and SV, but the proposal does not appear to be adopted in this round. But I will continue to encourage this and will take advantage of the opportunity to promote the proposal that, among other things, SV is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2987	The representative Sheida Sangtarash has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e2992	It is very gratifying that the Stortinget today states that the Judicial Genetics Centre of the UiT should be able to carry out DNA analyses for use in criminal justice, and that the RGS remains subject to UiT as an independent professional environment, ensuring the link between research, education and practical analytical work. There is a wide-ranging and competent academic environment in Tromsø to be researched, to train forensic practitioners, and to have a third leg to stand on, which is the practical analytical task. The three things are related in order for us to get the academic environment we need in order to research, train and conduct analyses. The Stoltenberg II government presented the DNA reform in 2008 and established the Rechtsgenetic Center. The size then determined that the RGS should be responsible for research and education as well as a supplementary environment for DNA analyses for use in criminal justice. A selection of parties identified different models of forensic work in Norway. In three of the four models outlined by the sample, the RGS was recommended as a national environment no. 2 to provide DNA analyses. When the Police Directorate evaluated the DNA reform, they concluded in 2013 that the DNA reform had a clear positive impact on the police, prosecution authorities and courts. However, it was also stressed that more analytical capacity and better training were needed. Today’s representative proposal that the RGS should be able to carry out DNA analyses for use in the criminal justice area has long had a majority both in the Stortingen and in the forensic environments. In addition to the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre Party, both the Left and the Christian People's Party have openly supported the proposal, which also provides for the most necessary updating of police's ICT systems in order to operate several analytical systems. It is gratifying that a unanimous collapse today says that the Right Genetics Center should have a special place as an actor for DNA analysis. In addition to being accredited for the provision of DNA analyses, the RGS needs precisely this practical task to be the complete education and research environment that it is intended to be. It's a broad-ranging, competent academic environment in Tromsø that's going to research, train forensics and have the third leg to stand on. That is why we are delighted to see today's suspension and decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3005	This is a matter that has also been devoted to working with and getting in place by many large-scale representatives from the government parties, an addition to today's system. Good DNA and trace analyses are important in order to condemn criminals and increase legal certainty for both accused and offended people. Still improved technologies and institutions that work actively to collect DNA increase the possibilities of using DNA analyses to reveal the right perpetrator. It's an important work, and it's important that it happens quickly enough to satisfy the needs of the judiciary. In particular, I would point to the need for the collection and analysis of DNA traces in rape cases. Very many rape cases are passed on, or are never reported because so many cases are filed because of the position of the certificate. The Department of Forensics at Oslo University Hospital, the former Forensics Institute, the RMI, is currently responsible for DNA and trace analyses for forensic use and shall continue to carry out such analyses. It is important that the OUS Legal Pathology and Clinical Forensics Department retains a sufficient volume of DNA analysis, which is necessary to maintain the quality and competence of today. It is important that the OUS should be compensated for the actual costs of the DNA analyses carried out on behalf of the Ministry of Justice is a remark from the government parties in the cancellation. I notice that the forensic commission believes that there has to be a reassessment in all kinds of forensic expertise. The Commission points out that forensics is the only forensic discipline in Norway where this possibility does not exist today. The Commission considers that the proposal for a new professional environment at the University of Tromsø will strengthen legal certainty, the possibilities for recruiting professionals and research and development of the subjects as a whole in Norway. The hearing response from the St. Olavs Hospital is also worth noting, where reference is made to an increase in the number of requests from persons exposed to violence or rape, which also increases the need for legal genetic analysis. I believe it is a public responsibility to ensure good legal genetic services in the country, but the government parties may not fully agree with parts of the opposition, which believe that this can only be done by public providers. I hear and read that many people have suggested that Norway needs more legal genetic service providers, and I also think it is important to remind you that private medical laboratories have helped the public health service handle sensitive information for over 70 years. At least it's positive that you now get another offer, and add to it. And at least for the Progress Party, it's like we don't like monopolies, whether they're private or public, and that's why we think it's good to get an offer next door.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3022	The Government agrees with the representatives that several suppliers of DNA analyses should be opened up. At the same time, there must be at all times sufficient analytical capacity of one supplier of such forensic analyses. The analysis must also be of good quality and carried out in such a way as to ensure legal certainty. Therefore, an important prerequisite for the government to open up more people to carry out DNA analyses for use in criminal care, as a supplement to the Department of Forensics at the University of Oslo, is that communication and processing of information are carried out in a safe and secure manner. This applies to either the analysis laboratories are private or public. The government has been concerned not to distinguish between public and private suppliers, as long as these are accredited and the requirements are otherwise satisfied. For the government, this does not imply a preference for the use of private rather than public suppliers. Nor does it exclude a future private supplier. The important thing for the government is that the results and the professional work are maintained and carried out within a sound and secure framework. Legal certainty and quality are central to stability and predictability. It is therefore necessary to ensure that the services are provided in a timely and high-quality manner during the transitional periods up to the use of several. The experience and competence of DNA analyses in criminal matters that the Department of Forensics has built over time must have its place and be used well in further work. I have noticed that a unanimous committee agrees with that. I think it's too early to say what extent Judicial Genetics Center at the University of Tromsø might be able to deliver. According to the report referred to from 2013, the RGS needed more equipment and staffing if a larger part of the volume of analysis is to be offered at Oslo University Hospital. Sufficient volume of DNA analyses is also necessary to maintain the current quality and competence of Oslo University Hospital. This is an assessment that needs to be made. A subsequent downscaling of the existing competence environment in favour of building a new public environment will not necessarily provide more cost-effective solutions, capacity or better quality, but it will be an important complement. The report prepared in 2013 will, of course, be part of the evaluation. I will, in cooperation with the Minister of Health and Care and the Minister of Research and Higher Education, make an assessment and plan for the work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3035	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3040	Thank you for being able to get a reply. When I listen to the post of the Council of State, I'm not sure if the Council of State has brought with it item IV, which says the Stortninget will decide today that the government will facilitate the delivery of the RGS from 10 to 25 pst. of the analyses needed, while at the same time the Council of State also stresses that there must be enough volume in the Oslo department to ensure quality. At the same time, the Council of State is talking about opening up to commercial operators. Is it so that the government will open up to commercial actors in addition to the RGS now having DNA analyses carried out?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3047	What we want in this round, in line with the possible decision of Stortingen, is to facilitate the University of Tromsø, in addition to the University of Oslo, to do so. There are no other plans at present. What was important for me to stress is that the important thing for the government is quality, it is legal certainty, it is privacy – that this is what must be the basis for the choice of suppliers. But as it now stands, we're putting up with a plan to get the University of Tromsø involved in DNA analysis.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3054	It was good to hear that there are no plans to use private commercial now. But I would like to ask the Council of State: Meiner, when we have been given the decision that the RGS should deliver from 10 to 25 p.m., that – with the extent of one of the DNA analyses in Norway – it will in future be room for a private operator in general, if one is to maintain the quality and volume of Oslo? Does the Council of State see that it is wise to have such a future plan for any private ones?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3060	As I said, there is no such plan. What I just stress here is that when we look far into the future, I will not exclude anything, but there must be quality, legal certainty and privacy requirements. But once again, I think it's important to stress that when at some point we get this in place with the University of Tromsø, we'll gain a lot of experience both in terms of volume, quality and the procedures that are going to be in place. Once we've gained that experience of having a supplier, it's natural to see if it's right to move on, but at this point there's no plan to move on, except to test out Tromsø, have two suppliers and be able to measure them against each other and gain experience.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3065	Let me first say that I perceive the vote of the majority in the committee and the decision of the Stortinget to make today, which is more than just «to test out» Tromsø. But I have a question with the background that both the Right Party and the Advance Party in their comments indicate that even private commercial operators can do DNA analyses, and that you don't rule it out. The Minister of Justice and the representative of Hoksrud also addressed it today in their speeches. It is such that opening up to private operators can also mean that the mission has to be tendered throughout the EEA area, and former Minister of Justice Amundsen replied to it in November 2017 in questions raised in the Question Time. Then he said that it is a fact that «At the moment when several operators are involved in a market, it will also be possible to challenge the EEA rules if competition across national borders is not simultaneously opened». How does the Minister of Justice see that, when he does not want to exclude private actors, today's organisation could also have to be changed due to EEA offers?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3077	What we want to get started at the University of Tromsø is not a test to see if Tromsø works, but it's a test in the sense that we gain experience in how many environments it might be right to have. The conclusion then might be that it's only right to have two environments, it might be right to have more environments. Whether it's public or private, we don't take a stand – we just say we don't rule out anything. Again: I see the challenge with tenders. That's why in this round we just simply say that we focus on legal certainty, on privacy and on quality. And then we take the step of taking in Tromsø, making an assessment, analysing and getting it built up there – which we hope can be a very useful and good addition to the offer we have at the University of Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3084	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3102	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3111	The issue is about direct electronic transparency in children’s mental health records. The Committee held consultations on the matter where the Change Factory, Press and Norwegian Psychological Association took part. In addition, the Norwegian Medical Association and Norwegian Children’s and Youth Psychiatric Association have submitted consultation opinions. The Committee agrees that children and young people suffering from it should receive help, and it is essential that both child and youth psychiatry employees and systems create trust and security. It is important to ensure that information shared does not proceed without the consent and without the child being in charge. The law emphasises parental responsibility, and it is important that parents receive information in order to be able to follow their child in the best possible way. At the same time, it is very unfortunate if children who need to talk confidentially with their treatment fail to do so because they are not sure that the information does not go to their parents. The majority in the setting underlines that we have to make sure that the systems are good enough. The majority emphasise the importance of good practice and the need to ensure a high level of awareness among professionals. Health professionals also need thorough training in the exceptional provisions to exempt information from parents, and provision must be made for healthcare professionals to have both time and space to make these important assessments. The Committee's recommendation is that the draft representative should not be adopted. The recommendation is promoted by the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. Two minority proposals are being put forward. For the Christian People's Party, we refer to the Psychological Association's hearing opinion, which points out that the main challenge is that the journal rules are today formulated in such a way as to have an obligation to record immediately information from the hours, and that when the journal system is rigged so that electronic access is immediately obtained, it challenges the principle that there is a real opportunity to observe the exceptions to parental transparency – in order to take care of the child's concerns when one is unsure whether the parents actually do well in what they have to tell their therapists. With this I take up the minority proposal from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3130	The representative of Olug Bollestad has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3135	For those children and young people, it is important that we address the issue of direct transparency in children’s mental health records. At the same time, I think it is equally important that we stress that this is not a general mistrust of the parents. The vast majority of parents want their children the very best and also do their best to succeed in doing so. But at the same time we have to take seriously that in some cases direct transparency may be unfortunate. Children also have the right to privacy, which is enhanced by age, as children become young people and approach adulthood. It's also very unfortunate if kids don't dare to talk confidentially to the therapist because they're afraid that the information will go to their parents. It's about building trusting relationships – relationships that take time to build up, but that can be demolished quickly. Children who already face mental health challenges may also have experienced failures and a lack of trust in the past, which means that they have to be extra careful on this issue. It is also a prerequisite to be able to help those children and young people, to have confidence in treatment and trust in the system that what should not be taken forward is actually not being taken forward. So it's like some games go a little bit further in this case. But I understand that there is a broad consensus in the Committee that in some cases the best of children may mean that one of the parents, or both of the parents, should not have full transparency and direct transparency. During the hearing we also received feedback that there have been some unfortunate incidents in this way. I therefore have expectations that the Council of State will follow up the signals now given by the Committee through various comments – a case of comments that hopefully will help an even greater degree of care and help vulnerable children and young people who need public intervention and who need to know that they are safe when they have something to tell, in order to get a better daily life.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3150	In health care, it is crucial that a person cooperates, informs and respects parents of children who are being treated in health services for different medical conditions. The fact that parents have access to journals is one way of informing and informing parents, but it can never replace the fact that health professionals actually spend time telling themselves what are the medical assessments and recommendations. This must also be borne in mind when we are now discussing their parents' right to direct electronic access to the journals of their children. Of course, parents should have access to their children’s records. It is a statutory principle according to children's life that parents have both the duty and the right to make decisions on behalf of their children. The question is whether it is important for parents to have direct electronic access to health care journals, and when Health Nord and Health West transmits the right to immediate electronic access to children’s journals to children’s and young people’s psychiatry, there are wise objections to this practice. In a written note to us, the Norwegian Children’s and Youth Psychiatric Association stated that they see major challenges in childhood psychiatry in bringing children to know about violence and abuse. They point out that when digital access to journals is now introduced via healthnorge.no, parents of children under the age of 12 have the possibility of direct transparency, and this has already resulted in situations that have been dangerous for children and situations where treatment has ended. This is pretty serious. They also indicate that the confidentiality of any information on choice and abuse has been added to the individual treatment of the BUP, and that this is a highly vulnerable system – and they recommend that we close the system with direct electronic transparency. This also supports the Medical Association in its Hearing Notes. They point out that they have a long notice that such transparency can be a threat to patient safety and significant rocking of the medical obligation to children and young people. Health professionals may refuse access. This can be done when the note is written and approved, or it can be done afterwards, but it implies that health professionals are aware of the possibilities for denial, have been trained and know how to do so, and that they are always aware that such transparency should be denied, if necessary. In any case, this is a significant safety risk, and a 2017 risk assessment report prepared by Health Nord identified several unacceptable risk threats associated with this practice. That is why we support the SV proposal. We cannot support the proposal of the Christian People's Party to derogate from the obligation of 'immediate reporting'. It's not a wise way to do it. I take up the proposal from the Center Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3161	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3166	Children are whole people with their own rights. We need to make sure that children and young people feel confident that they will receive the help they need when life becomes difficult. I feel that there is a cross-political consensus on that. I also believe that we in this Chamber agree with the fact that parental cooperation and parental participation and efforts in the life of the child, especially when children are having difficulties, are of particular importance. The disagreement lies in how best to safeguard the privacy and the right to safe healthcare of children, their right to express themselves without concern, while respecting parents' right to participate and information on the health of their children. For a child with mental problems, only the recognition of the difficulties and the ability to put words into words can take a very long time. For many children who have difficulty, and when the difficulties are caused by the conditions in the home, it can take a very long time to be able to trust adults again. If the child is not 100 pst. ensure that the information it shares is not immediately shared, we may risk that the child does not receive the necessary assistance. SV does not want to change parents' right of access. Transparency is an important safety valve that also applies in those health regions that do not currently have electronic access. The proposal is to change the way transparency is practised, making it safer and better for children, parents and treatment providers. So I want to again stress the importance of parental cooperation. The proposal is based on how the information is transmitted. It is about parents perhaps also need support and guidance before the information is shared, so that they can support the child in the best possible way. It will provide better insight into the child’s situation than online reading via direct electronic access. I therefore believe that it would be a wiser practice if treatment providers could open up such access when deemed appropriate. I would therefore recommend the proposal on which SV is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3177	First of all, I would like to thank the proposers for raising an important topic – it is probably the second time today that I am doing it – which was also debated extensively in the previous period, when the law was amended. It does not harm to include this theme at regular intervals. That the best of children is, and should be, a fundamental consideration, there is full agreement. We also agree that parents must be able to take care of parental responsibility and thus have journal access in most cases. Fortunately, most children in Norway have caring parents. This means that, in many cases, electronic transparency is relatively unproblematic, especially in the field of somatic services. Then it becomes a little more problematic when parents are given access to journals that may contain information from the child that some parents should not have access to. In the field of mental health protection for children and young people, it is beyond doubt that a number of children and young people are struggling precisely because of their own parents, whether they are sexual assaults, mental violence or other care failures. There may also be other serious reasons why parents should not be transparent. Therefore, it is good that the law has exceptional provisions to ensure that the best interests of children can be cared for, and it is very important that the law is properly practised in all relevant cases. It is good that we strengthen the legal position of children in Norway year after year. Today's debate is really about what should be the general rule and where the derogation should be anchored. But in fact, there is very little difference between the parties in the view of what is best for the child. I feel that as a strength when it comes to child privacy. The provisions are good as they are now formulated.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3186	I would first like to take advantage of the opportunity to thank the President of the case and the Committee for good cooperation. Then I would like to stress that children and young people who are in pain, of course, will get good help quickly. Good mental health protection requires competent additions with systems that are experienced collaborative, safe and useful for the child. The change factory has recently, in collaboration with members of mental health protection, worked on its recommendations for work both in outpatient clinics and in bed rooms. Such cooperation and initiatives think I'm important. Here it is, to the same extent as in this proposal, among other things. evidence that information sharing, as far as possible, must be agreed with the child and that mental health protection must document how the information is shared and how it is taken into account. Contact must be open, and it must be clear what, how and when information is shared. Electronic transparency in patient records is supposed to be a good thing. Transparency in own patient records is a fundamental right of patient. It is also important that we keep parents informed so that they can follow their child in the best possible way. The letter of reply from the Council of State also refers to the existence of legal exceptions to the right of access in order to ensure the safety of the child. It is important that health professionals establish good practices and, prior to any electronic access to a document, assess the extent to which the rule of derogation from the laws can or should be applied.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3194	Electronic transparency in patient records is meant to be a good thing. Parents have the right to have access to their patient records when children are under 16 years of age. Electronic transparency gives parents simple information that can help them to follow their children in the best possible way. There are some legal exceptions to parents’ right of access. Most recently, a narrower exemption has been introduced if there is a strong concern for the child. If electronic access to children’s records is to be provided, it is important that health professionals always assess the applicability of the derogation in advance of any electronic transparency in a document. At the same time, electronic transparency in a patient record is only a supplement to transparency in the patient record in other ways. Therefore, electronic access to health information shall only be provided for which health professionals consider it appropriate and appropriate to provide electronic access. I would like to stress that, when assessing whether to provide electronic access to a child’s record sheet, healthcare professionals need to assess whether regulatory exemptions apply as well as, if not, whether it is appropriate and appropriate to provide electronic access to the record sheet. Electronic transparency allows parents to see as soon as the journal document is inserted. It is necessary to include in the assessment of the electronic availability of the logbook. Electronic transparency must not lead to children who need to talk familiarly with health professionals failing to do so because they are not sure that this does not go quickly to their parents. In a meeting between children and treatment, it is important to treat conversations with the child and to consider informing the child about what will, and what will not, be passed on to parents. In order to help children, it is important that the conversation and information provide the children with sufficient confidence and confidence that they dare to talk openly about what is bothering them. Both when children receive mental health care, and when they receive other health care, I will again stress the importance of possible electronic transparency in the best interests of the child. As previously communicated, I would like to ask the Health Directorate to assess whether there is a need to further inform health regions about the circumstances they need to pay particular attention to by electronic transparency, including the challenges of immediate electronic transparency for parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3209	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3214	The Committee was informed, after consultation, that there have been some unfortunate incidents around parents’ direct access to children’s journals. This underlines to the Committee in its comments that it must be taken seriously and that one must ensure that direct transparency, where this is not desirable for the child, is avoided. In its presentation, the Council of State was somewhat concerned about a possible need to inform further, and about contact with the Directorate of Health, but how will the Council of State follow up the Committee's comments, if any, to ensure that parents do not have direct access to cases where there may be an accident for the child/youth? And can he assure us that we will not experience new things where children/youth see that their parents have gained an insight that they should not or should not have had?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3219	To respond specifically to the proposal, as I also mentioned in the letter to the Committee, I would like to ask the Health Directorate to follow this up further on health regions. So I would say that the problem here is not new. It's not new just because we've got an electronic patient record in two health regions. This was also a problem when you had paper records – just because you also experienced what I was talking about in my post, that one did not in the initial conversation with the children in a good enough way clarify these questions, and thus the children felt that information had been passed on to the parents, which led to less trust in health care. I think it is important that we approach this issue regardless of the form in which the information is given, whether it is by phone, by printing a paper file or whether it is direct electronic access.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3228	Now I'm not going to conclude that it's easy to solve such a challenge, and it's interesting that the Council of State says it's not a new issue, but the feedback we've received is that this is still not solved. Höie has been Minister of Health for almost five years. What is the reason why the Council of State has not been able to solve this problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3233	It is simply because this will require a very clear awareness and attitude change in the service. There's something we're working on, but there's nothing that's been done in neither one year nor five years. It requires continuous work. Now we also need to introduce packaging processes for children and young people at start-up – both investigation and treatment. In those package runs, this will also appear in a much more systematic way as a theme, the awareness of it, and I hope that it will also contribute to it – regardless of whether the journal is electronic or not. The two health regions that have electronic patient records will also introduce specific procedures and training precisely to raise health professionals’ awareness of this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3240	It is true that the regions that have introduced this have tried to introduce specific procedures, but in Health Nord – which has introduced this – they have tried to remove dangers in the system of direct transparency in the mental health records of children. They have reported that even with all the new measures there would be one serious danger, the red zone, and seven moderate dangers, the yellow zone. How can the Council of States believe that a person with more information will do better? Or is it that the Council of State believes that having electronic access is more important than screening children to dangerous situations, and that one might have to stop the processing?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3245	Again, this is a problem that is not primarily about electronic records. It's about a consciousness of passing on and building trust in children seeking help within our mental health services for children and young people. This is a challenge that we've been working on over time. There is also one reason why we have tightened up the law – after feedback from children under the age of 12 – where the legal basis in the past was almost non-existent when it came to the possibility of holding back information. But it's not that it's just through laws and through electronic systems we can change this. This is also very much about culture and raising awareness in the service, simply because parents can take a phone, they can ask for a copy, and through both the two ways they can access information that they should not have had access to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3252	This is to minimize the problem itself. It is now a matter of direct-access electronic journals making this much more difficult. That's what the whole proposal for a representative is about, that's what the Medical Association made a statement about, that's what the child-psychiatric union came up about, that this is very difficult, it exposes the child to danger, it exposes the child to end treatment, and it's demanding for the licensors to take care of their obligations. Health Nord says in his report that even with all the new measures, there will be a serious risk that a child who needs it will not be able to be screened. In that situation, I thought it was strange that a government council said this was not about electronic journals. I know that we also have the same problem without, but that's how it is unfortunately now. How will the State Council follow up on this? Is there enough one question for the Health Directorate? Does he want to make sure that this is followed closely?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3261	The whole point is – as the representative also points out – that although the majority of adults today had said that parents should not have access to electronic patient records for children in childhood and youth psychiatry, this problem had not been solved. We would have liked to have created the impression that we had solved it – that could have led to you getting less attention around this problem – but the problem had not been solved. And calling it de minimis -- I think it's the very opposite; it's recognizing that this problem is more fundamental than the question of electronic access or not. But of course, we're going to work on this much wider than just related to the question of electronic access. One of the strong tools we have is the introduction of a package process, where we get better systems to deal with the kind of questions in a more standardised way in the service.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3266	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3274	I would like to make some comments on the views expressed during the hearing on this matter. I do not want to be left with the impression that there is significant disagreement between the Committee and some of the hearing actors. Confidence and security are essential to the success of the treatment in the field of mental health protection. This applies regardless of age. I therefore have great respect for what the child and young people with experience from the auxiliary care unit themselves say, that it is vital that children with bad experiences can feel completely confident that information is not shared with their parents because of their own parents. If this foundation stone isn't in place, we're sure we won't be able to help the child. This is precisely the perspective that is well presented in the consultation opinions delivered by, among others. The Change Factory, Press and Norwegian Psychologists' Association. Otherwise, I fully agree with the Council of State when he stresses that this is a matter of change of mind and awareness. Health professionals must always carefully assess, through conversations with the child, whether the information can and should be shared with their parents, and it must be easy to implement the exemptions from parental access. Although health professionals are obliged to make these assessments, unfortunately there are many cases where parents have received information that they should not have. It is very serious for the individual child, but also for the confidence of the entire part of the auxiliaries to be there for the children exposed. We must therefore monitor closely that electronic transparency does not in any way weaken this confidence, which this debate also helps to ensure, even if no changes to the law are adopted here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3283	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3300	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines with up to five lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up for the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3309	In this case, there are three different suggestions, all from a minority. The Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV are behind the proposals No. 1 and 2, while only the Centre Party and SV support proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox In order to ensure the efficiency of the Norwegian society, we are dependent on making full use of digitisation. ICT solutions and digital services must then be sufficiently secure and reliable. Businesses and individuals must have confidence that systems and networks both work as they should, and value the privacy of the individual. Good ICT security and the ability to manage unwanted digital events are a prerequisite for achieving this trust. All regional healthcare providers have an overarching responsibility to ensure the patient information they manage and to ensure that the systems are up-to-date and developed in such a way as to meet the need for a secure and efficient ICT infrastructure. It is important that you have learned from bad information management. Health professionals have had a different approach to how they have solved their tasks, and it is very important that entrepreneurs are rigging a safe and good development of their ICT infrastructure, and that there is a shift in experience and good practice in the various businesses. Nevertheless, there is reason to stress that the departments are responsible for the prevention of security services in their sector. The plural – with the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Advance Party and the Right – sees that a number of measures and changes of promise have been made recently that will ensure a defensive level of security. When the new Safety Act enters into force, all actions will once again implement new risk assessments related to displayable information and information systems, objects or critical infrastructure of decisive importance to support under basic national functions. Assessments related to operations, management and development are closely linked, and it is up to the agencies themselves to report these needs, and then it is up to the departments to conclude.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3320	The aim of the working party is to ensure that patients in Norwegian hospitals are confident that the treatment will start rapidly and that the service will be provided in a planned and uninterrupted patient course. The ICT systems of health services are fundamental to achieving these objectives. Patient information must flow in a way that ensures good and proper processing and ensures data security. For safe and secure data processing, three things are quite crucial. One is, of course, confidentiality, that patient data does not deviate or end up in someone who should not have access to them. The second is integrity, that no unauthorised person should be able to break into the systems and take over their management. The third is availability, namely that patient information is made available in all parts of the service that are relevant to the patient’s treatment and the quality of the treatment given. Unfortunately, the ICT scandal in Health South-East has shown that this has not been adequately addressed. He/she has been able to access sensitive patient data on 2.8 million Nordics belonging to the Health South-East region. Accordingly, sensitive patient information has been able to divert, and unauthorised persons have been able to identify an infrastructure that could have been used for sabotage in order to paralyze Norway. The right-wing parties in the government must learn from this. We believe that future outsourcing of the development and operation of critical national ICT services and systems in the health sector needs to be significantly ensured, and that the arguments for solving these tasks are the best. On 8 January 2018, the Hospital Partner, an entity under Health South-East, was notified that abnormal activity was taking place in the computer systems of the region. The health company suspected that the professional was behind, and the PST and Kripos were connected to the case. The ICT scandal in Health South-East has shown that the government does not ensure well enough health information for the population of Norway and that this poses a threat to the security of the state. The fact that health information for half the population of Norway has not been safe is a factor in confidence in healthcare. Proper processing of health data is a core task for our common healthcare system. I would like to address the minority proposals in the setting in which the Workers' Party is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3337	The representative, Mr Kjerkol, then brought up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3342	The ICT scandal in Health South-East led to unconcerned access to sensitive patient data of 2.8 million North. We need to learn from this and ensure that basic ICT infrastructure in healthcare professionals has to be defined as critical national infrastructure under the Security Act. This proposal should be unnecessary. We found it regrettable that both the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party do not support us in this. We also believe that outsourcing the development and operation of critical national ICT services and systems in the health sector will be concluded and that new agreements will not be concluded. Right, the Progress Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party do not support us in this either. The centre party is only supported by SV in the setting of the proposal that information related to national security interests must be operated and stored in Norway. Right, the Progress Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party argue in the setting that it's so hard to get this done, it's so hard to define it, and that this has to be thoroughly explained before any conclusion can be reached. This argument doesn't hold any measure, at least not according to the situation we've been up to now in the health system. They cannot show a single response that builds up under these claims. At the hearing in the Committee, there was unison support for the proposal for a representative from the professional community, the Legeforeningen, the Trade Union; the NITO, the EL and the IT Association – which everyone thinks the proposal should be implemented. In the new Security Act, responsibility for defining basic national functions is added to the Departments of Trade. We know that, but the ICT scandal has shown that the Ministry of Health has not understood this responsibility. The Safety Act Chapter 6 provides two alternative conditions for an information system to be considered as vulnerable: either that the system processes displayable information, or that the system itself has a decisive impact on basic national functions. Both of these conditions are met when we talk about basic ICT infrastructure in healthcare. This proposal should be unnecessary, but the Ministry of Health and the Government has not understood the responsibility. It is clear that the security breach of the healthcare establishment computer system poses a significant national security risk. Hospitals are important to ensure basic security in Norway, and basic ICT systems are crucial for the functioning of our hospitals. Therefore, there should be no doubt that basic ICT infrastructure in healthcare professionals is subject to the requirements of the Safety Act – and with that I will address proposal No. Three, which the Center Party is in.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3357	The representative Kjersti Toppe then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3362	I'm worried. I'm worried about people's trust in health. I'm concerned that people don't dare to give up information about their own health in the future because they're afraid of their privacy. When seeking health care, you need to be sure that the information you share is kept. It is a political responsibility to secure systems and networks that both work and protect the privacy of people in the healthcare system. When the law and the Ministry's practice do not ensure health information for the population of Norway, when the health information for half of Norway's population has not been safe, we are in a serious situation. And it's the Minister of Health's responsibility to clean up. It is serious when unauthorised access to sensitive patient data is obtained. That is why we believe that Norway needs to ensure that basic ICT infrastructure in the health sector needs to be defined as critical national infrastructure covered by the Safety Act. That is why we believe that outsourcing and operation of critical national ICT services and systems in the health sector must be completed, and that is why we believe that information related to national security interests needs to be operated and stored in Norway. Experts from the NITO, EL and IT Association and the Trade Union have provided a hearing response and believe that this can be implemented. It is disappointing that the government parties will not participate in the proposals without being able to prove why.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3371	In 2014, the Ministry of Health and Health assessed the relationship between the Safety Act and the Regional Health Enterprises, Health Enterprises and Norsk Healthnet SF. The National Safety Authority, NSM, bisto in this work, which concluded that these establishments are covered by the Safety Act. This includes the basic ICT infrastructure of healthcare enterprises. New safety laws, as the Stortinget dealt with in February and March of this year, are expected to enter into force on 1 January 2019. It will have an extended scope. A particularly important issue in the proposal for a representative is the assessment of the protection of all or part of the ICT infrastructure of healthcare undertakings under the new law. This presupposes that the ICT infrastructure is of importance in order to safeguard Norway’s sovereignty, territorial interest and democratic governance and other national security interests, such as: § 1-1. According to the new Act, responsibility for such assessments has been added to the Department and cooperation has been established with the NSM, the Health Regions, Norsk Healthnet, the Health Directorate, the Directorate for e-Health and Hospital Building. They shall identify basic national functions, identify activities in the sector that may have display values, identify possible display values and evaluate and identify specific display values. These assessments and any need for preventive safety measures could in themselves be safety-rated information. It is very important that the public has confidence in the management of patient information by healthcare services. This was clearly stated in my statement in Stortinget on 30 January of this year, about access management and information security in Health South-East. I also pointed out that the public should have access to high-quality public health services. It requires it primarily in technologies and methods, so that healthcare professionals can work effectively, provide healthcare in new ways, treat patients outside hospitals and give patients greater control over their own treatment and health. Much of this technology development takes place and is offered internationally. Increased digitisation also imposes increased requirements on work on information security and privacy. Under current law, there is limited opportunity to reject foreign ICT suppliers on a general basis, on the grounds that they are established in or will provide services for another country. Specific assessments must be carried out on a case-by-case basis, taking into account risk assessments and the ability to meet safety requirements. This picture is constantly changing, and it is absolutely necessary to work closely with national authorities working on these issues in order to make good, concrete assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3384	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3389	The background to the proposal for a representative was that the Council of State repeatedly met with us that health professionals were covered by insurance laws, on the question that we believe that the ICT system needs to be covered by insurance laws. Then it came to the conclusion that even if health professionals were included under the insurance laws, the department was not fully concluded on whether the ICT infrastructure, in whole or in part, would be covered by the insurance laws. This is now a responsibility added to the department. The letter to the Committee says that it is still being evaluated, and I wanted to ask the Council of State what the government and he as the Council of State will work for in this matter. Does he want to work for, and does he think it is reasonable, that the ICT infrastructure comes under the insurance laws?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3397	I think the representative here combines two different relationships. Of course, the ICT infrastructure that is part of healthcare companies is subject to the Safety Act, because health businesses are also subject to the Safety Act. What I think the representative is looking for is an answer as to whether parts or all of the ICT infrastructure are protective objects under the Security Act. It is an assessment that is made in very concrete terms. The assessment related to this is now a key issue in view of the new safety law that will enter into force on 1 January 2019, and I explained in my contribution the processes that are underway to make the specific assessments. Part of those assessments may also be excluded from the public, precisely for the sake of national security, but it is currently under assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3404	I have not misunderstood. Of course, it was the last time the Council of State answered, which has always been a question: whether the ICT infrastructure of healthcare professionals could be security-graded information that would have to be included under the insurance laws. But I hear that the government doesn't have a special answer to that, based on his own opinion. However, Chapter 6 of the Security Act sets out two alternative conditions for information to be considered as protective: either that the system processes displayable information, or that the system itself has a decisive impact on basic national functions. Does the Council of State believe that the basic ICT infrastructure in healthcare is not a system that treats vulnerable information and is not a system that is itself of crucial importance for basic national functions?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3411	I have to say again, in the light of what the representative said, that it sounds to me as if the representative does not distinguish between what is covered by the Security Act and what are the measures under the Security Act. The ICT infrastructure of healthcare providers is covered by the Safety Act, so that there is no doubt about it. To the question asked by the representative, and I also felt that the representative in his post was hesitant – and I am so impressed if you can be so: there is a significant work going on there, among other things. The national safety authority is on the advisory side. The objective is precisely to identify if there is information, information systems, objects or critical infrastructure that may be essential to support basic national functions. In addition, a value and damage assessment shall be carried out in the event of total or partial loss of these functions. In view of this, the Ministry shall conclude.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3418	I just have to ask again, because I have not received an answer to my question. The Security Act Chapter 6 provides two alternative conditions for an information system to be considered as a displayable system: either that the system processes displayable information, or that the system itself has a decisive impact on basic national functions. Does the Council of State believe that basic ICT systems in the healthcare system should not fall under these two conditions, since the Council of State is uncertain whether to define basic ICT under the insurance laws as protective information?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3423	As I have said several times, the assessment of this work is now taking place as a preparation for the introduction of the new Security Act next year, where the Stortinget has just stressed that ICT infrastructure has received it as a popular value, in the context of these assessments. These are not simple assessments. That is why much work has been done on it, and of course, in the light of the advice we receive and the review we have, the department that is now responsible for drawing these conclusions will do so. But it is not that this work has been completed, so I can respond to the representative's proposal. There is also a for general description of the infrastructure by the representative that it is possible to respond to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3430	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3437	The healthcare sector depends on international suppliers in the field of ICT. It does not seem reasonable to set up our system in such a way that according to current rules, Norwegian enterprises are required not to benefit from EU/EEA international or foreign ICT suppliers. I want to mention that the Security Act introduces the use of object protection as a method. This method is based on securing physical objects. ICT infrastructure covers large quantities of physical objects, but risk and vulnerability are usually linked to the operation and management of the logical objects. It is not easy to see that an object protection approach will bring something new to today’s work on ICT security. It is more likely that the full establishment of current recommended measures by the National Security Authority for ICT Security will have a significantly better impact on the safety level of healthcare professionals. In addition, there is a high risk that the use of the ICT infrastructure security law may prevent effective cooperation with international suppliers in emergency situations, where close cooperation with them is crucial to reduce the impact of operational problems. This is precisely why this cooperation is essential to arrive at the conclusions on what is to be defined in and out. Technological solutions evolve rapidly, and blockages are one example of technology that can prove to solve challenges associated with safe storage. Copies of blocks are, as you know, stored on many different machines, and in open blocks there is no idea where the copies are stored. A requirement for operation and storage in Norway, in accordance with what the proposers here propose, I think I will be able to unintentionally prevent the positive development of safe storage.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3448	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3464	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3473	The Committee has examined the proposal for a representative of the major representatives of Bollestad, Gruvan and Bekkevold to ensure the quality of specialist medical training. The Committee demonstrates in its attitude that new specialist training for doctors contains many new elements to ensure together good and forward-looking training, in which all finished specialists shall have acquired both common basic competence and, in addition, specialised competence within each specificity. The Committee considers mandatory minimum requirements for the implementation of the learning activity to be a prerequisite for ensuring the quality of education and a national education system in which all specialists in a speciality achieve the same practical and theoretical core competence and a common professional basis for their professional activities. Patients should be able to expect that specialists in a subject area have the same core competence and basic skills, regardless of where patients are investigated and treated in the country. The Medical Association's specialist committees have drawn up a proposal for learning objectives defining the competence of individual specialists. The Health Directorate has fixed 4 900 learning objectives for 46 specialities. In addition, the specialist committees for most specialities have drawn up proposals for a number of procedures that, in their opinion, are necessary to achieve the learning objectives. An overall committee stresses that it is the responsibility of the health minister who owns hospitals to ensure national standardisation of specialist training skills, as a prerequisite for ensuring quality and patient safety, and to avoid what we call undesirable variation. In its letter to the Committee, the Council of State writes that the Health Directorate has a normative role in the new specialist training by recommending minimum standards for procedures. Deviating from the Technical Recommendations of the Health Directorate requires a specific justification. Behind it is a majority consisting of the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. These batches indicate that health regions have already decided that recommended procedures in the list of procedures should continue to be followed. It provides an important clarification for the candidates to receive specialist training in Norwegian hospitals. There is an almost similar proposal from a minority in the vote, which the minority will explain in more detail.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3490	This matter is about ensuring the quality of specialist training for doctors, ensuring it throughout the country and ensuring that the quality is even and good, so that in the future we will also stay with a competent medical team. It is essential for a good specialist health service. A broad majority, including government parties, ask the government to do so through nationally standardised learning activities and to follow up the use of the procedural lists by regional health enterprises. This is in order to ensure the basic and equal competence of all medical specialists trained in Norway. At the same time, the letters of the Council of State to the Committee confirm that the health authorities, the educational activities and the Medical Association have common objectives of good quality in specialist training, where sufficient quantification of practical procedures is a prerequisite. I repeat: a prerequisite. So here all of the parties agree that there's going to be an adequate quantity training, so that those who are going to be specialists get what they need for training. With this in mind, I am sure that a good and equal quality of the training of medical specialists is ensured throughout the country. I am pleased that there is a broad majority of the Workers' Party and the government parties behind the same proposal, and this will ensure good specialists, educated throughout Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3501	The Ministry of Health and Health and the Directorate-General for Health have decided not to impose mandatory minimum requirements on learning activities in specialist training for LAGs. The decision is contrary to clear advice from the professional community. The professional environment believes that national standardisation of specialist training skills is a means of maintaining quality and patient safety. New learning objectives in specialist training of doctors in 45 specialities are approved by the Directorate for Health. In the VG, the Minister of Health argues that there are 4,900 learning goals, but breaking one down into the number of specialties, it gives about 100 learning goals divided into five years of education. That gives about 20 learning goals per year. It is not to impose mandatory requirements on quality and competence. All specialist committees have recommended minimum requirements for compulsory courses. The majority of specialities have also developed minimum procedural lists for other learning activities. The professional environment, represented by the specialist medical associations and specialist committees of each speciality, has made clear demands throughout the process that the system of minimum requirements for learning activities that carried out procedures and compulsory courses should be continued. A number here seem to suggest that there should now be a skilful assessment of the learning outcomes, and that it should be up to the individual enterprise to decide what is good enough, and assess whether the doctor has had the necessary experience and training and achieved adequate professional maturity. It's the Center Party's disunity. We've got clear warnings. In a joint call from high-procedural specialities, they warn against what's happening. They may agree that the procedural lists themselves are not prescribed, but it must in any case be stipulated that they are complied with at any time. When the medical team's specialists warn that they can no longer be good at quality, I thought we should take this more seriously. For the two suggestions: they're not exactly the same. The proposal behind the Centre Party states that we want ‘standardisation and national requirements for learning activities’. There is no statement about'requirements' in the plural proposal, and with the foundation that is also in the comment, our proposal represents a different line. We will take up and vote for the proposal of the Central Party together with the others, and we will not vote in favour of the second proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3516	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3521	An overall professional environment states that, without binding minimum requirements for learning activities, the basis for impositions and penalties is weakened in the event of identified deficiencies. This also weakens an equivalent level of quality across the country, in addition to increasing the risk of mistreatment. In a letter to the Minister for Health, Health and Health and the Directorate for Health, the professional communities of high-level specialities write that they can no longer benefit from the specialist title if the procedural lists become non-compulsory. It's clear talk, because it's patients' health it's about. I think we agree that acquiring competence depends on more factors than just procedural lists. Guidance, which is mentioned in the case, and formal requirements for the competence of supervisors are, for example: important and will support under the learning of specialist candidates. That's not where the disagreement lies. There is no contradiction between learning different ways and procedural requirements that ensure a minimum of exercise and practical experience. SV supports the evaluation of the professional community. We have to facilitate an equivalent offer wherever people live. When health regions have stated that they have already decided that recommended procedures should continue to be followed, is it not entirely unproblematic to impose binding requirements? I think that is necessary. That is why I recommend the proposal of which SV is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3530	The background to this proposal for a representative is concern that we are unable to ensure the quality of specialist training for doctors without binding minimum requirements for learning activities in specialist medical training. This is not a new proposal from the Christian People's Party. We had a similar proposal also in the previous period. When the Christian People's Party has seen a need to express concern that learning activities anchored in recommendations and normative documents will not be a strong enough instrument to ensure a national minimum standard of real competence for specialists, it is because it is the quality of healthcare this ultimately goes beyond. We believe that there is reason to listen to the professional environments in this matter, and we believe that the procedural lists must be mandatory to ensure standardisation and quality in the specialist offer. And finally, if we don't get an equal basis, it's going to go beyond quality in the whole country. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party is pleased that an overall committee in the nomination agrees that mandatory minimum requirements for the conduct of learning activities are a prerequisite for ensuring the quality of education and a national education system where all specialists in a specialty achieve the same practical and theoretical core competence and a common professional basis for their professional activity. An overall committee notes that patients must be able to expect specialists in a subject area to have the same core competence and basic skills, irrespective of where they are investigated and treated in the country. The Committee also stresses that it is the responsibility of the health minister who owns hospitals to ensure national standardisation of specialist skill training as a prerequisite for ensuring quality and patient safety and avoiding unwanted variation. That's why it's a paradox for me when we're so clear in comments, that we're not as clear in decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3541	New specialist training for doctors shall provide better, not worse, specialists. The government has established a framework for modernised specialist training. Work has been going on for a long time. It was started during the previous government and the actors concerned have been strongly involved. The Health Directorate has examined proposals, there have been consultations, and a new regulation has been laid down to regulate the new scheme. The first doctors started in new order last fall. The core of the new scheme is to ensure that doctors get the skills and skills needed to practice as a specialist. There's a lot of work going on attaching regulations to 4,900 new learning goals. These learning objectives describe the necessary competences for the different specialities. Specialisation doctors shall continue to exercise a lot in operations and procedures. Everyone agrees. However, it shall no longer be sufficient to have carried out only a certain number of procedures. In the new system, experienced colleagues must assess and attest that the doctor actually masters the procedures. Knowledge and skills can be acquired in many ways. As the Committee also refers to, simulation techniques can be used more extensively to train technical skills before procedures are carried out on patients. This is important for quality and patient safety. In the new scheme, the Health Directorate makes a recommendation on the number of procedures to be implemented. These procedural lists have the status of normative, i.e. that they are specified as a minimum national standard. If deviations from this standard are made, a justification shall be provided. Some doctors will need more practical practice than others to master the techniques, which standards also open up. Regulation fixing of learning activities requires investigations, hearings and follow-up by health authorities. It will provide a less flexible system as well as more bureaucracy and administration. Many elements of the new scheme will ensure the quality of specialisation. Health establishments shall draw up plans for the various specialties of training. These plans shall be approved by the Directorate of Health. The Medical Association's specialist committee shall visit health establishments in order to assess the quality of the training. Re-registration by physicians in specialisation shall be part of the Directorate-General for Health’s assessment of the quality of specialist training and the continuing recognition of activities as a training activity. I am convinced that the scheme, which is now established and regulated, is comprehensive and good in order to ensure just modernised specialist training of high quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3558	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3563	The Minister of Health is the owner of regional health establishments and, in the letters of consultation of regional health establishments for the proposal, they state that the recommended number of procedures in the lists of procedures should be used. So it's given insurance that some people think is not good enough. Can the Council of State explain why it has not chosen to legislate on these learning activities, referred to as the procedural lists, but to have them in the phase they are now in, as a regulatory body of the Health Directorate?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3569	There's several reasons for that. The first is that once we've fixed 4 900 learning goals, the procedural lists will still be the most important tool for an experienced colleague to assess a candidate, whether he's been through enough activities to achieve a learning goal. But it won't be the only thing. There will be greater opportunities for, for example: assess simulation activity, to assess whether this is a candidate who needs more activity in order to achieve a learning goal. If we had fixed the procedural lists, it would also have given less flexibility, and it would also have led to a significantly more bureaucracy, for any change in a list of procedures had to be implemented as a regulatory change. It had also given the Norwegian Medical Association specialist organisations less influence on what is actually important to carry out procedures to become a specialist.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3574	The Council of State addressed the need for simulation both in its article and in its response. For some specialities, there is a real challenge that there is not enough patient base, and there are good reasons why you might want to start simulation before moving on to patients. At least in the past, the Norwegian surgical association has pointed out very clearly the need to develop new simulation technologies because the population of patients is as low as it is, that a solution needs to be found in a Nordic context. We have other countries, other nations that specialists compare with, that have a much larger patient base. So my question to the Council of State is, how does the Council of State think that this necessary technology should be developed to ensure specialist training in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3579	I think it's very good input from the Norwegian surgical association, because it's clear that this is a common challenge that we have in the Nordic countries. It's not necessarily that simulation should replace activity against patients, but in many cases it can be very wise for simulation to get ahead of it. It also provides a larger quantity training, which also provides a better basis for just mastering a learning goal. In this area, Norway is a leading country internationally. It's a paradox for me, for example. Being on the move in China, being at one of the major simulation centres and experiencing that most of the technology has been developed in Norway, while we may not have similar centers in our own country. That is why this was a theme in the previous national health and health plan, and I am sure that it will also be part of the next competence theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3584	In a joint call from heavy procedural specialities, sent on 10 April to both the Health and Health Committee and the Health Directorate, it states whether they have the requirement to have mandatory procedural lists in order to improve the quality of the specialty title. However, it also states that they see that it may be appropriate for the contents of the procedural lists themselves to be kept out of order, so that it would be more flexible to adjust requirements in accordance with new methods. However, they request that a regulatory attachment be made to specify that it be complied with at any time the procedure list currently in force. Can this be a way of resolving this issue, that one way or another, may make a requirement for the procedural lists to be met?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3591	This was a recording that I got evaluated because I thought it seemed interesting. The challenge is that legally it will be that if we link the procedure lists to a shell determination in the regulation, the lists will de facto be part of the regulation, and then one is back to the same problems that I described in my post. So this was a proposal we evaluated, but for that reason it was rejected. What we're very clear about is that the procedural lists should be normative as to whether a person has achieved learning goals, and deviations should be justified. Of course, we're also going to use ownership as a tool to ensure that this is followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3598	Thanks for the answer. Can the Council of State elaborate a little on the last time he said that the procedural lists should be regulatory, but also that deviations should be documented? How the activity will be monitored? Does the Council of State believe that one can be approached to guarantee that they will at any time be taken into account in the current procedural lists, or how does the Council of State see that this will be followed up?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3605	Firstly, by simply saying that they will be normative. Then you also have to see – to put it a little on the head and maybe a little clumsy – that it is not the managing director of the health company who assesses the candidate, it is an experienced colleague who is very often also a member of and active in the various specialist sections of the Norwegian Medical Association. They also have a great interest in using the procedural lists, precisely because they are considered important. It is also that it will be the fastest way to assess whether this is a candidate to be assessed at all if it is close to achieving the learning objectives, to check whether the procedure list has been completed. Once done, a more specific assessment of whether the candidate is actually able to achieve this learning goal, whether there is a need for other activities, or to assess whether the candidate has been through other activities that will compensate for the lack of activities in the list of procedures.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3612	I'll continue a little bit there that the previous replicator stopped, and where the Council of State stopped responding. This applies when there is a father, an experienced doctor or an experienced colleague, who is going to assess whether one has been completed, and then he is going to use the various lists to see it. Does the Council of State see that different fathers can assess differences, and that this can result in different quality, because they focus on different things, and we get different doctors out at the other end, to which patients should relate?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3617	It's to this extent today too, but I want to say that it's making a concrete assessment of the individual candidate, it's precisely to increase the certainty that there won't be any inequality, but that there's more similarity that one actually has achieved the learning goals. If one had somehow thought that it would have been almost an automatic in that if only one had completed the procedure list, then one had achieved the learning goals, I'm afraid that there would have been quite a variation in the actual competence of the different candidates.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3622	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3640	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3652	Then we're ready to go to voting. Let's start with case number. 2, which we debated only today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3661	A total of 14 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-7, from Lise Christoffersen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 8-13, from Lise Christoffersen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 14, from Lise Christoffersen on behalf of the Workers' Party There is a vote on proposal No. 14, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to provide a comprehensive report on the protection of the human rights of persons with disabilities, with a survey of significant differences in practice between municipalities and county councils, in the case of school leisure arrangements/school-based provision from the 4th year to the secondary school, including the content of services and self-payment from parents, and to assess the extent to which there is a training law or a law on health and care services to cover such services, in the light of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities.’; The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3690	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 8-13, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a Government Communication on the Protection of the Human Rights of the Devolved with a focus on organised education for development-impaired pupils in the ordinary school, including the universal design of existing school buildings.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a State aid notice on the protection of the human rights of persons with development disabilities, which emphasises that those with development disabilities have the same opportunity to buy and own their own dwellings as others.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to provide a State Aid Notice on the protection of human rights of persons with development disabilities, focusing on ensuring that the services of persons with developmental disabilities have sufficient competence to ensure that those with developmental disabilities receive equivalent services in different areas of society, in line with all others.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a Government Communication on the protection of the human rights of persons with disabilities, focusing on ensuring the proper coordination of the services of those with development disabilities in transition situations and between current services, internally in the municipalities, and between municipalities, county councils and state.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to provide a Government Communication on the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities, focusing on ensuring that the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is fully implemented in all relevant areas of society, including through a comprehensive approach at ministerial level to achieving policy objectives for persons with disabilities and ensuring coordinated action.’ [[CRPD]] Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a Size Notice on safeguarding the human rights of persons with development disabilities, focusing on ensuring all opportunities to engage in meaningful leisure activities and opportunities for the exercise of life’.» The Central Party, the Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3742	Alternatively, between the setting and the proposals No. 1–7, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure the close involvement of disabled people’s organisations at all stages of the process in the preparation of the government’s overall strategy for gender equality for people with disabilities, including permanent contact points with sectoral ministries.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a big message with proposals for measures to ensure that development-impaired persons have their human rights in line with those of others.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit a State Aid Notice on the protection of the human rights of persons with disabilities, focusing on the rights of persons with development to express their opinion or to assert their rights in the same way as others.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit a State Aid Notice on the protection of the human rights of persons with disabilities, focusing on measures that ensure the rights of persons with development to work, including organised vocational training.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a Government Communication on the protection of human rights of persons with disabilities, emphasising the right of persons with development disabilities to equal access to good quality health services as the rest of the population.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to remove the tightening-up that has taken place in the possibility of a second year at public high school for those with developmental disabilities.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit a Government Notice of paper on the protection of human rights of persons with developmental disabilities, reviewing and proposing the necessary legislative changes to ensure the participation and legal certainty of individuals with regard to the protection of property rights.’ The Christian People's Party, the Greens and the Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3796	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Eigil Knutsen, on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 2, from Per Olaf Lundtägen on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to draw up and bring into force, by 1 October 2018, a regulatory amendment that the Working Environment Act is fully applicable to petroleum-related work carried out on multi-use vessels on a Norwegian base.’ [[including, inter alia, construction, plumbing, maintenance and removal]] The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3822	There is a vote on proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size refers to the group of parties assessing the multi-purpose vessel regulatory framework and asks the government to return to Stortinget by the end of 2018 with the follow-up to the work on the regulation of multi-use vessels.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The Central Party and the Left Party have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3857	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Eigil Knutsen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 4, from Eigil Knutsen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 5, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the Government to amend Section 17 of the Regulation on the official recognition of cleaning establishments and on the purchase of cleaning services so that only authorised cleaning establishments can legally offer cleaning services to the commercial and private markets.» [[1]] The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3886	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to increase its control activities towards sellers and purchasers of cleaning in order to counteract undeclared work.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3910	Alternatively, between the setting and the proposals No. 1-3 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The government requests the removal of Section 17 of the regulation on the official recognition of cleaning establishments and on the purchase of cleaning services.» [[2]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish a common information portal for the clean-up industry which helps to make serious choice and where all relevant public agencies and industry stakeholders present their resources in a coordinated, transparent and user-friendly manner.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the Renhold Register shows in real time which persons are authorised to legally provide cleaning services.’ The Christian People's Party has announced support for the vote. The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3945	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Arild Grande on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 3, from Tore Storehaug on behalf of the Christian People's Party Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, reads: ‘The government is asking for proposals to improve the public service regime and to make it easier to use by simplifying the documentation requirement, turning back the documentation requirement of the already adopted public service decisions and extending the period of publication’.» Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Christian People's Party has announced support for the vote. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e3985	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to evaluate the public service scheme as a basis for proposing improvements to the public service rules.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The Central Party and the Left Party have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e4004	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit a case for evaluation of the public service scheme and to consider proposing improvements to this scheme.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e4025	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-6, by Arild Grande on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 7, from Per Olaf Lundtägen on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 8, from Tore Storehaug on behalf of the Right Party, the Party of Advancement, the Left Party and the Christian Party of Nations There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to start legal work on regulating franchises as an organisational form, which will also lead to clarification of the franchisee’s responsibilities and strengthen the franchisee’s rights.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e4061	Alternatively, between the setting and the proposals No. 1–6, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to file a case for amending the Working Environment Act which clarifies the responsibilities of employers in franchises, groups and similar organisations. The proposal shall ensure that the person who has the right to control, and by this is actually the employer, also receives rights and obligations as an employer under the Employment Environment Act.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government requests the submission of proposals to ensure the statistical registration of franchisees within each franchise concept, including an assessment of whether the obligation to register, in addition to being on the franchisee, should also be imposed on the franchisee’s activities.’; Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked by the Government to investigate the obligation to register in the Brønn Island Health Registers for the franchised companies. The registration must include at least a list of franchisee, a chain related to the specified contractual period, and the number of employees.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make proposals to ensure employees’ representation in the governing bodies of the franchisee, in order to gain transparency and participation, in line with other activities and types of company.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess the need for joint and several liability of the franchisor in respect of outstanding wages and other liabilities to employees in bankruptcy of the franchisee and the like, and to return to the accumulation appropriately.’;» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to make proposals to ensure the rights of the franchisee against the franchisor, including the identification of the need for a franchisor to provide the franchisor with information to franchisors and potential franchisee with an obligation to provide the following information: – The number of franchisee has within the same and equivalent concept. [[and other establishments, such as self-employed shops or several shops operated by the same franchisee]] – where other franchisee are located in a perimeter of 50 kilometres from where the franchisee is to be established. – History of financial performance in the same or similar premises where the franchisee is to be established. – Overview of franchisee in the economic performance of the same concept. – List of bankruptcies and any dispute settlement proceedings in the last 5 years within the territory of the franchisor. – the contents of the franchise contracts which directly relate to the terms and conditions of employment of the franchisee and employees, and contractual provisions which have financial consequences for day-to-day operations. This information may not be bound by any obligation of professional secrecy. Transparency and transparency of franchise contracts may not be penalised by penalties imposed by the franchisor. – The investigation should also assess whether it is reasonable for the franchisor to have the right to cancel the franchisee unilaterally at the end of the contract, for example, for five years, as agreements often provide for at present.’; The centre party has announced subsidiary support, and the Christian People's Party has announced support for the suspension. The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e4130	There is a vote on proposal No. 8, from the Right, the Party of Advancement, the Left, and the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the extent and characteristics of organisations such as franchises, groups and the like, with an emphasis on employers’ and employees’ rights and franchisee’s position vis-à-vis franchisee.’ All parties have now announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e4149	A total of 13 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-4, from Lise Christoffersen on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 5 and 6, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Centre Party, the proposals No 7, 8 and 10, by Solfrid Lerbreck, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 11-14, from Björn Moxnes on behalf of Red There is a vote on proposal No. 11 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to repeal the rules on participation schemes, etc., so that, instead of using the regulation, the enterprises use the right to enter into an agreement with a trade union with the right to set-up or apply for the Labour Inspectorate, ref. the fourth to seventh paragraphs of Section 10-12 of the Environmental Protection Act.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e4181	There is a vote on proposal No. 12 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to ensure that employees’ access to the withdrawal of consent to weekly working hours beyond 48 hours must also apply to those living at or in connection with the institution. The right to withdraw consent shall not constitute a justification requirement.’;» The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e4198	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 13 and 14, from Red. Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to evaluate the health effects of working time arrangements under the co-delivery regulations, etc. over a long period of time.’» Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The ruling asks the Government to determine where the maximum weekly working time limit is to be set for workers affected by the rules on participation schemes, etc., and to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e4221	There is a vote on proposal No. Five from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government is asked to ensure that regulations on participation arrangements, etc. are practised in such a way that today’s agreement between the employee organisations and the country shall also apply to private operators/institutions.’;» The Socialist Left and Red have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e4238	There is a vote on proposal No. Six, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide an overview of the number of employees affected by the regulation.’ The Labour Party has announced its support for the proposal. Socialist Left Party and Red Party have announced subsidiary aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e4258	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7, 8 and 10 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for amendments to the Regulation on working time in institutions which have participation arrangements to adapt them to the ideal anti-fraud and anti-poverty collectives initially envisaged by the Regulation.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to reverse the 2016 extension of the regulation.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government requests the addition of all forms of working time to the regulations on participation to be approved by either the trade union with the right to set up a job or the Labour Inspectorate.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e4287	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-4, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to carry out a qualitative evaluation as soon as possible of the consequences of the extension of the co-delivery system, both as regards compliance with the legal and regulatory provisions on rest periods, working time and health, the environment and the safety of these tours.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to incorporate the co-delivery regulation into an evaluation every year, as is usually included in the employee organisations’ approval of applications under Sections 10 to 12 of the Working Environment Act. [[4]] Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The decision also asks the Government in an evaluation of the rules on participation to determine the number of workers affected by the regulation and the extent to which the rules on participation allow for replacement of agreements with trade unions with the right to stand as a candidate and/or by application to the Labour Inspectorate.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to report back to the Storting as soon as possible and in an appropriate manner when it intends to initiate the notified evaluation of the participation regulation and when and how it has planned for the results to be submitted to the Stortinget.’ The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e4328	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e4344	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Lise Christoffersen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 3, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose amendments to the law or regulation in order to realise its preferential rights to port workers through the ILO Convention 137.’ The Labour Party and Red have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e4377	Alternatively, between the setting and the proposals No. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government, in cooperation with the parties, is asked to submit proposals for amendments to the law or regulation, which ensure that Norway fulfils its obligations under the ILO Convention 137.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The Government is asked to ensure that proposals for amendments to the law or regulation include a definition of the concepts of port and port workers, the establishment of a register of port workers deemed to be covered by the Convention and the reintroduction of the right of priority for established port workers.» The Christian People's Party has announced support for the vote. The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e4407	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Eigil Knutsen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 2 and 3, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to ensure that Norwegian collective agreements and Norwegian labour law are given precedence over Norway’s obligations that could be part of the EU labour market agency ELA [[European Labour Authority]] Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e4433	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to assess whether Norwegian collective bargaining agreements and Norwegian labour law can be given precedence over the rules of the EEA Agreement.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e4450	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to clarify whether participation in the EU labour market agency ELA means strengthening or weakening our ability to combat social dumping and labour crime in Norway, and whether it strengthens or weakens our ability to secure the future of the Norwegian labour market model with a focus on the role of tripartite cooperation in working life. These issues need to be clarified before any case concerning the EU labour market agency ELA is promoted for Stortinget. The government must stress to the EU that proposals which weaken the Norwegian ability to regulate labour relations by law or tripartite cooperation will result in Norway reserving itself.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e4478	The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e4502	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e4518	During the debate, Ms Sangtarash put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that legal genetic engineering tasks continue to be handled by public actors.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e4560	It's written first over IV. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have announced that it will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e4574	It shall be counted against I, II and III.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e4588	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Olug Bollestad on behalf of the Christian People's Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to facilitate immediate reporting after treatment in mental health protection, so that there is no immediate electronic transparency.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e4612	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests that all records for children under 12 years of age be automatically blocked for electronic access via health Norway.no, but that treatment providers can open such access when deemed appropriate and safe.’; Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e4636	The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e4641	The centre lot shall be flushed against.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e4646	The centre party shall also vote against. Then the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e4662	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Ingvild Kjerkol on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Kjersti Toppe, on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that information related to national security interests is operated and stored in Norway.’ The Greens and Reds have notified the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e4695	Alternatively, between the setting and the proposals No. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to define the basic ICT infrastructure of healthcare providers under the requirements of the Safety Act on Protective Information.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking that the outsourcing and operation of critical national ICT services and systems in the health sector be completed and that new contracts cannot be concluded.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e4723	During the debate Kjersti Toppe has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking to ensure the quality of specialist medical training through standardisation and national requirements for learning activities.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e4740	The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-12.ana.ud319e4783	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
