ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e93	Representatives Kari Henriksen, Himanshu Gulati, Abid Q. Raja, Hanne Dyveke Sweets, Une Bastholm, Geir Pollestad and Trond Giske, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For the West-Agder province: Theodor Helland For the state of Hordaland: Sigurd Hille For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Anne Kristin Bryne For the Uppland State: Indigenous Thon Hagaseth For Oslo: Mats A. Kirkebirkeland For South Trondelag: Geir Arild Espnes and Mona Berger For the Westfold province: Henning Wold
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e171	The President will propose the election of one president of the Stortinges meeting today and one president of this week’s meetings – and considers it adopted. The President will propose Svein Harberg for this week's meetings and Kari Kjønaas Kjos for today's meeting. – Other proposals are not available, and Svein Harberg is unanimously elected president of the current week’s meetings, and Kari Kjønaas Kjos is unanimously elected president of the current meeting. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that today's Storting meeting be suspended at 0 p.m. 12 to allow representatives to participate in the Nobel Peace Prize award ceremony in Oslo City Hall. As a result, the President will propose that the meeting be resumed at 9 p.m. 15.30 until the current map has been processed. – No objections have been raised to the proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e195	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the debate will be divided into two parts, so that the budget chapters of the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality will first be examined, the framework section 2, and then the budget chapters of the Ministry of Culture, the framework section 3. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that each part of the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Christian Party 5 minutes, Green Party 5 minutes and Red 5 minutes. In addition, members of the government are given 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that in the part 1 and part 2 of the debate — within the allocated speaking time — there be up to three lines with replies from the main figures of the parties and five lines with replies from members of the government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e214	First, I would like to thank the Committee for a good cooperation around the budget. We're well into the harbor. The long-term objective of the government is a sustainable welfare society and a safer Norway. This budget strengthens the well-being of municipalities and the social security network for those who need it most. The government has an active gender equality policy and a good policy for those who need it. Due to strong economic growth, we can afford good welfare arrangements. That is why, together with the Progress Party, the Left and Christian People's Party, we have proposed to increase child welfare by 1000 kroner a year from 1 March 2019. In addition, we have proposed raising the one-time benefit by NOK 20 000. This means that if your mother has not been in work for at least six of the last ten months before the benefit increases, she will now be paid about 83,000 kroner. This is not an attack on the workline, as the Workers' Party claims. Cash support and lump-sum benefits are short-term benefits. The adjustment of family allowances will give a small but good increase to all families, but it is not sufficient for parents to be better served by being at home and not going out into work. However, it is a concern that the Central Statistical Office shows that child poverty is increasing, especially in large cities, and over 50pst. children living in low-income families are children who have parents with a migrant background. There we have to take further action. The objective of the national grant scheme against child poverty is to address and mitigate the consequences of poverty among children and young people. Children and young people shall participate in important social arenas such as holiday and leisure activities, irrespective of the income and social situation of their parents. In the budget, government parties, together with the Christian People's Party, have tripled this grant scheme – from 100 million. SEK in 2014 until now more than 300 million. kr. Unfortunately, some children grow up in families that cannot take care of them. Child protection shall provide the necessary assistance and care for children living under conditions that may harm them both physically and mentally. The quality and effectiveness of child protection are important. The Committee is pleased that the budget for digital solutions has been allocated to it. Good governance information is necessary for the interaction between the various levels of child protection. Reports have also shown that there is a great need for skills enhancement. Training, competence requirements and authorisation are necessary to improve the quality of services. A competence strategy has been launched by the Department towards 2024, and 80 million. In 2018, kr was granted for actions that are now in place. It is important to stress that the public is responsible for the protection of children. Municipalities are currently dependent on various private providers in the service. No difference in quality has been demonstrated whether the provider is State or private. The Ministry now assesses the framework for the use of private actors. The aim is to reduce the use of institutional and emergency facilities. The use of foster homes requires parental guidance and support, and the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party ensures 22 million. kr for parental guidance. During the budget consultation, various child and youth organisations were concerned that children and young people need to be consulted on matters relating to them. Now the department has notified a new child law, which has been sent to the hearing. Although the opportunities for children to be heard have been strengthened by the Ministry, there is still a need for children to be more involved in decisions made about them. We've had a lot of issues in child protection that have been very unfortunate, and I'm very happy that the Minister for Children's and Gender Equality really appreciates it and really puts children's and children's well-being on the agenda. I'm addressing proposal No. 18th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e239	The representative Kristin Örmen Johnsen has taken up the proposal she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e246	The representative did not talk about an important part of this budget, and that is the gender budget. The last year has been marked by the Metoo campaign, which really put the spotlights on the social problem of sexual harassment. All politicians, from all parties, have supported the campaign, gave fine speeches and been shocked by the stories that have been heard, including the representatives from the Right. But what really matters is not what you say, but that you actually do something. It is the broad equality policy that is the best means of combating bias in power, which also provides opportunities for exploitation. This government has put equality in reverse over five years by cutting off the measures that have made Norway the gender equality country we are. Many of us may have thought that the Metoo campaign was also going to open the eyes of the government, but one time – not one new equality policy measure is in place in the budget. On the contrary, the policy continues to be that the allocation is on the ground resting, which means real cuts. Does the representative think it is right that equality is something you should only be concerned with in celebrations, and is it okay that the government does not deliver a single measure in the budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e255	Thank you for the question – it’s an important question. Equality is not just about granting money, it is also about how the state behaves. What has happened now is that the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman has become a much stronger driving body. We have also strengthened the Discrimination Study, which has been given more tasks. They now have the power to enforce bans, including: against sexual harassment. It's been out for consultation. It's a completely concrete result of the metoo campaign that's been. Then there are a number of measures that the government is taking, among other things. in order to achieve a more balanced gender balance in the educational pathways. Equality is not just about the policy of the Ministry of Family Affairs and Gender Equality. It is a policy that must permeate all departments of the government, and thus also of the Ministry of Industry, where a tomion scheme has been set in motion to get more female top managers.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e264	My question goes to the spokesperson for the Right and relates to the consumption loan. The debt ratio of the Nordics, in particular in terms of consumption loans, has been expanding in recent years – an unhealthy and worrying development. A lot of people take up loans that they have to deal with. A unanimous increase asked the government to come back to Stortinget last autumn 2018 with proposals to ban aggressive marketing of consumer loans. This has not been followed up by the government. Norway is one of the world’s most indebted countries, and the Financial Supervisory Authority, Norway’s Bank and the Consumer Council consider this to be a worrying development. Doesn't this worry the Right too? If so, what measures and regulations should be put in place quickly, according to the representative?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e269	Thank you for the question. Yeah, it's worrying about credit. Now there's going to be a meeting where our equality minister meets several of his government colleagues just to discuss how to design and do this even harder for those who want to lure people into the debt trap, as you call it. A number of measures have been taken on the part of the Ministry of Finance, including: the persons responsible for collecting the credit debt have now been required not only to show the debt of one company on the invoice. The credit debt in all areas shall be shown, so that the recipient is given a full overview. In addition, there are new regulations out of consultation, which the Ministry will receive back. So there's a little bit done.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e274	There is no doubt that the Metoo movement has been a social revolution that has put words on what many of us have known for a long time, namely that sexual harassment is a social problem. I am pleased that the representative from the Right denominator the opposition’s impact on finally having a low-threshold enforcement ban on sexual harassment and, not least, to strengthen the assistance offered by the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman – two decisions the opposition was given through in the spring to follow up also the political revolution of the Metoo movement. It is paradoxical that, while the representative from the Right boasts of this – the opposition’s impact – both the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman and the Discrimination Department have a real downturn in this state budget. They have to cut. How does that really relate to each other? How will the thousands of women who have told their stories get justice when these offers are weakened?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e279	I believe that the offers will not be weakened. I believe that we have now actually cleared quite well structurally, and, as mentioned, we have a gender equality and discrimination agency, which should be the driver. One thing is the metoo stuff that has happened, another thing is to prevent further forward, that's important. Then we have the Discrimination Study, which has now been given a enforcement task. I think that's the big structural grip on it, and it's important to take. As I mentioned, it's not just money, it's about social structures in general, and that's among other things. important that the State in its mission letters to all state agencies, whether universities or KS in the municipalities, requires them to work systematically with both discrimination and, not least, sexual harassment. The Minister for Children and Gender Equality has also challenged business.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e284	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e290	Differences in Norway are increasing. The cuts in property taxes give more money in the wallet to those who have the most from before, and $6.9 billion. less to the community and development of well-being. Right-wing policy will do that. Increasing differences particularly affect the everyday life and quality of life of children. It hits the families, which is the first and most important community the children become part of. Increased disparities contribute to a weakening of trust in society, both between people, between groups of the population and between people and society. Failure to address growing differences is contrary to the Norwegian model, which is based on effort and distribution, trust and cooperation. It is contrary to the way in which we create stronger communities. There is now, of course, a big message to be made about inequality — yet another investigation, another document to help the government in the political debate have something to point out when the differences in society become too cumbersome to defend. By 2019, the thousands richest in Norway will have received 1.3 million. kr each of the Solberg government through a cut in the property tax. Half of Norway’s population has not received a single ear. This creates increasing differences and inequalities, so save us for more messages, give us firm suggestions to distribute fairly and develop the community. It's the idea of jobs for everyone and a fair tax system that has given us one of the world's best welfare societies, not tax cuts and underfunding of the community's institutions. In area by area, the right-wing policy shows its lack of consistency between word and action. They say they want more in work, but they put in place tools to make progress in the wrong direction. We see it in gender equality policy, as the government reverses, and lack of action to give more women the opportunity to work full time. We see it through the widespread belief in cash benefits in family policy, with extensions to the cash support system. The right is now in the forefront of a flexible cash support scheme, a mechanism such as the NHO and the LO strongly warns against it, because it works opposite of the taskbar and opposite of the inclusion line. They speak for deaf ears. The right-wing government continues its ideological crusade with a policy that has no other red thread than these three: to provide well for its rich friends, to drain public activities for tasks and money, and to preserve the strongest right at the expense of those who need the community to set up. Through the Labour Party budget we show how we can create values, redistribute more fairly, include all, collaborate to reduce differences, give more a better everyday life and through this strengthen the community and belief in the future: a single meal for everyone in primary school; no to increased babysitting prices free and fairer dental provision for young people better quality with several competent adults in kindergarten and school multiple sports facilities and free or reasonable rental space for leisure activities requirements for joint responsibility to ensure that quotas and participation do not exclude children in everyday life; free lending schemes where the BUA bet is particularly important to ensure professional rental and smart resource use for all of us multiple open meeting places for young people, youth cultural cards and contributions that provide all the basis for good holiday experiences; More liberal and simpler working conditions for youth organisations The documentation demonstrating an urgent need for changes in the protection of children is bundsolid. As a last grant, it is worth referring to the examination by the Control Committee of the Riksrevision report on the failure to deal with children in need of emergency accommodation, discussed here in Stortinget on 4 December. The suspension expresses significant concerns about the management of emergency positions by the authorities in the protection of children. An overall committee states: ‘The Committee is surprised and concerned that the lack of common understanding has been made available for so long.’ Further: ‘It is particularly alarming that there is no agreement on the fulfilment of the obligation to provide assistance.’ And finally: ‘The Committee will point to the department’s responsibility to follow up the laws, regulations and administrative provisions in force and address shortcomings and challenges.’ In view of this and together with the Children's Ombudsman's reference to the need for several competent adults to contribute to child protection in the municipalities, we had to and should be able to expect traces of a more effective child minister in the government's draft budget. But it's not like that. For the fifth time, the right-wing government is promoting a budget proposal without growth in the number of municipal child protection posts. As before, when it comes to the budget, there is growth in the private commercial players that stands out. We repeat our proposal to increase the number of municipal child protection posts by 200 million. kr to those who are and shall be closest to our most vulnerable children and families. We propose to strengthen child protection education, to increase the involvement of user organisations in the development and information work, and also to propose increased efforts in the development of research and competence. We want to stimulate new trials with multidisciplinary lowthreshold measures for child protection and childcare provision in municipalities and propose experimental ways to do so. When the majority of our population made demands on the government and decided to increase the proportion of non-profit actors without going at the expense of the public, it was a big step in the right direction to get better child protection. This policy decision also supports organisations, non-profit organisations and employees. This will undoubtedly make a significant contribution to ensuring that the resources we put in are actually used for the children and for the best for the children. Each child and family is unique and child protection is not suitable for tendering, competition, pricing and profit. In this I address the proposals made by the Workers' Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e355	The representative, Kari Henriksen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e362	The Labour Party budget claims that the number of posts in municipal child protection has remained still for the last five years. The truth is that the number of municipal child protection posts has increased by over 1 100 posts, or around 24 pst., since 2013. That means that municipal child protection is strengthened, and I wonder, therefore, how does the Workers' Party manage to draw a reality that is simply not right?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e367	Then I think we'll start by reading the budget carefully. What the Labour Party is saying is that this government, which has now been running the Right Party and the Advance Party for five years, has not provided budget resources for more posts. There's a significant difference. The fact that other actors in municipalities have strengthened child protection with positions on their own keel is the result. It is also a continuation of the package that the Workers' Party and the Stoltenberg Government provided when we managed, where we added ear-marked positions to the municipal child protection system. That ear tag removed the Right Party and the Advance Party as soon as they came into government. Since then, there has almost not been a crown for child protection from the government. It is true that there have been some positions in negotiations with parties on the Stortinget, but not from the Right and the Advance Party in the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e372	In Norway, there has been a long tradition of public purchasing child protection services from the private sector. The use of private childcare facilities has been in use for more than 50 years. It is a practice that the government Brundtland, Jagland and Stoltenberg have had, and a practice that was also okay with SV in government. There are no demonstrated differences in the quality of the offer between the private and the state. The Stoltenberg government actually used a lot of the private stuff. Now a report from Menon Economics has also shown that profits from private channels are being channelled back to the company for development. What surprises me is: Why this reverse operation at the Workers' Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e379	One might wonder a little bit about that. Maybe it's because we've got a new government, which has an ideological superstructure that says that commercialization should go ahead of the consideration of the children and the use of community money on the children. It's the big political difference between the Stoltenberg government and this government. The Stoltenberg government would have control over private commercial businesses and introduced laws for, among others. to check profits in such a way that they were ploughed back to the companies. The right-wing government has a completely different approach, in which they leverage commercialisation and say that it is as good an instrument as any other public sector activity. There is complete disagreement between the Right and the Advance Party and the Labour Party. We believe that public and community money should be ploughed back to the children, not to the enterprises that take out the profits of foreign investment companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e386	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e391	This budget has a main focus on the fight against violence and abuse, an increased effort directed at children in families living with persistently low incomes, and – and not least – better child protection. Security is also about good welfare arrangements. Getting help when you need it and getting involved in a society where opportunities are many and the differences are small may be some of the features of Norway. Early efforts and better prevention are central to helping children living in families with violence, low-income families and those in need of child protection. These are areas that we want to continue to strengthen in 2019. The increase of the contribution to the public offices of the protection of the family by 20 million. The importance of family protection as an area of concern to the government and the importance of the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party. It's because it's difficult in families where children, especially those who are exposed to a break-in, can risk standing in very challenging and demanding situations, preferably where there's a lot of conflict. All work that contributes to a lower level of conflict between parents and a better family environment for cooperation is important for both children, adults and society. Otherwise, I record that we get a lot of attacks because you have increased child welfare. I think it's with pride we can say that we are the first parties of over 20 years who have taken this grip. Child-resistance is a measure that should work smoothly, and this historical increase is an important step that is most important for those who have the least. Strengthening child welfare is also an important investment in all families, not only the families of young children, but also the families who have older children, because we know that you are a child until you are 18. I would also like to highlight the importance of the government's new strategy for integration, which will help more people get to work. One of the most important measures to raise fewer children in child poverty is that parents get into work. That's why it's one of the most important steps that politicians can do and facilitate. We, the four parties that have entered into a budgetary settlement, have today also submitted proposals to increase the national grant scheme against child poverty by 20 million. kr, including Barnas Station, Holiday for all and FRI, Association for Gender and Sexual Diversity. It is also an important contribution to the fight against child poverty, precisely because children should have the opportunity to participate in their holidays and leisure activities. Otherwise, I can report that we are very excited about what the government is now planning to send to the hearing regarding the new Child Protection Act. It's the announcement to come in 2019. That work will be closely followed by the Progress Party. So over to my last little heart attack: we fully agree that it is the public that should be responsible for child protection in Norway. However, both the State and the municipality depend entirely on this offer being complemented by private, non-profit and commercial suppliers. I therefore think it is very sad when part of the debate on whether we should have a private, non-profit or public-run child protection, is not rooted in assessments of the child's best and quality of service, but appears to be justified in ideology. There are no research reports that conclude that public quality is better. However, there is a difference in quality between institutions, both in private and in public, and that is of course something we should take seriously. With those words, I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e412	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e417	Child protection is given a lot of criticism, from the Health Inspectorate, from NOUs and analysis institutes, and now from the National Audit Office on emergency placement of children. Several point out that one needs more employees who have better time for the individual child. It is also very concerned about the organisations of children's protection. The party of progress was before they came into government, very concerned with child protection. They were standing on the barricades, and they were very offensive to improvements in child protection. Now five years have passed without the Right Party and the Advance Party having provided funds for more jobs, and so this is still a harsh criticism, among other things. of the Riksrevisionen. How well does the Progress Party believe that they have been put through to the government for child protection policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e424	Thank you for a good question from the representative. I can guarantee, and with my hand on my heart, that the Advancement Party is still very concerned with children's protection and not least by listening to those who have been in the situation themselves. That is also why, in the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party, we are giving earmarked funds to the National Association for Children's Protection. I think the premise for the question from the representative is a bit wrong. As I explained in a reply to the representative earlier, there has actually been an increase of over 1,100 posts in municipal child protection since the Progress Party entered the government, i.e. significantly more. It has become approx. 24 pst. several employees in municipal child protection after we took over the power of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e432	Child protection is becoming extremely important to the Committee in the future, but we must now celebrate that the budgetary agreement finally saw an increase in child welfare. We believe it is a measure that is particularly good for low-income families. The centre party has also chosen to increase child welfare in its alternative budget now and in the past. In addition, this year we have introduced an additional allowance for the amount of EUR 2 000 per month from every third child to the families with many children. Does the representative of the Progress Party see that child welfare is a good measure for low-income families, and does the representative consider that not increasing the grant of every third child to families with many children is a good solution?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e437	Thank you for a good question. I fully agree with the representative from the Central Party that child welfare is a good supplement for families with children, as it is today, and – as I said from the pulpit in my post – not only for families with young children, but also for families with older children, precisely because you are a child of 18 years old. The representative’s proposal to extend the third child’s entitlement has not taken a decision on the Advance Party. It is not discussed in our draft budget that is available here today, but I am very open to looking at other measures that can help families and stimulate it to make it easier to have children and make the economy go around.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e444	The Progress Party is a party that was founded on an idea to stop the waste of taxpayers' money. For a long time they have been high and dark in their criticism of unreasonable public spending. But the pipe certainly gets a different tone when the Progress Party is among the hottest defenders of the fact that taxpayers' money allocated to well-being disappears into profit and is not used for e.g. child care and protection in the protection of children. In Eastfold, as an example, a child protection company was built up with taxpayers' money sold for nearly 60 million. NOK, and the money went right to the company's former owner. Does the representative, Mr Hemdal, of the Progress Party believe that this is a reasonable and prudent use of taxpayers' money?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e449	I would like to thank the representative for the question. I can guarantee the representative from SV that the Progress Party is still subject to taxes and taxes. In budgetary debates that have gone into this Chamber earlier, SV has criticized the Progress Party for that, precisely because we have prioritised tax relief to people most. So this is going a little bit opposite. Of course, we are concerned about how taxpayers' money is spent, but for me and for the Advancement Party, the most important thing is that the child gets the help it needs. If you have a logo on the theme from a private, a non-profit or a public actor, it doesn't really matter to us. Here's the child's best that's in focus, not an ideology where you go to war against those who want to participate in completely legitimate bidding.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e456	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e461	The centre party wants a family policy that will give parents time and space to be parents. Our child and family policies should help balance social and economic differences, create a good quality of life and give all children the right to a safe and healthy upbringing, no matter where they live in the country. The centre party, as everyone knows, has great ambitions for good services near people. We're very concerned about reducing the differences between people geographically, but through a number of efforts in our alternative budget, the Central Party also wants to show how busy we are to balance social and economic differences, not least when it comes to children and young people. We're also doing that for the benefit of the municipalities, by helping them get a full 2 billion. kr more to walk with – also the county councils get 2 billion. kr more – than the government thinks they should get. In addition, we want to help balance differences, including: by increasing the benefits of families with children, strengthening public responsibility for child protection measures and promoting better mental health protection in that sector, introducing free school fruit, allocating more money to camp school education and increasing the allocation of various leisure activities for children with economic challenges. At the top of this, the cultural field and the voluntary sector are considerably strengthened in relation to what the government is doing, because it is also important for the development of children and young people. In the Central Party, we are very concerned about the growing poverty of our society and believe it is absolutely necessary to work cross-sectorally to lift people out of poverty, as our alternative budget puts it. Child Security is a universal system that has a smoothing effect. It has been on the ground for years, and in recent years, the Centre Party has considered that it is necessary to implement a child-rescue escalation plan in order to increase in line with overall price developments. So in our alternative budget, we've added a total increase of 190 million. kr for child-restraint. We introduce, among other things: a supplement of NOK 2400 from the third child and also chooses to reintroduce the Finnmarks and Svalbard plug-in. It is gratifying that the Christian People's Party in the budget agreement has managed to bring the government on an even greater boost to child welfare than what we in the Center Party provided. My hope is that a total increase in the years ahead will continue to increase child-restraint and will also contribute to extra benefits for families in Finnmark and Svalbard and families with many children, who have a good part of our poorest families. The one-off benefit for those who have not been in hard work before birth is another important scheme that we in the Centre Party support. It turns out that many of the families who receive one-off benefits at birth today have a difficult financial situation. In seven out of ten cases where mother receives lump-sum benefits, the families live below or around the low income limit. The single-use buffer serves as a safety valve, especially in the phase of newly-baked parents. I am pleased that the Christian People's Party, through the budgetary agreement, has ensured an increase in the social benefits, and will show that in the Central Party we proposed to increase the one-off social benefits by NOK 1 000 in our alternative budget. Child protection is a very complex field. There are major challenges to this sector. We in the Centre Party will strengthen Community solutions and work to maximise responsibility and operation in the public and non-profit sector. We do not want a development in which the Community funds disappear in return for large commercial players with a bank account in tax havens. We also find it unfortunate that the government continues to actively facilitate the use of child protection tenders. In our alternative budget, we propose a re-priority of 150 million. the allocation to be made for the purchase of private child protection measures, rather than for the construction and strengthening of public child protection measures. In addition, we see the greatest need to strengthen the mental health care of child protection in the budget by 30 million. kr more than the government. The report Psychiatric health of children and young people in child protection institutions, from 2015, found that children and young people in child protection do not receive the help they require. They'll have to. I would also like to take the opportunity to commend the many good actions and activities of volunteering when it comes to providing children and young people with the best possible conditions of growth. The centre is a high priority for the voluntary sector and has a large share of volunteer organisations and teams in our 2019 alternative budget of 236 million. more than the government, in which more teams and associations have offers that will help to make the situation easier for children and young people who have much less money than anyone else. Otherwise, we add up to a tax policy that gives them with low incomes lower taxes and that gives less tax pressure than the government. Our alternative budget clearly underlines why I am a member of the Central Party. We work for cohesion geographically, but not least socially and economically. With that, I will address the proposals of the Centerpartiet together with SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e484	The representative of Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e489	We want every child to have an offer where they live. I hope that also applies to the Child Protection Policy of the Center Party. I want to raise the lines of conflict around the private offer and also focus on a district line, because I am afraid that institutions will be closed, and that vulnerable children will be the losers. Is not the representative, Sem-Jacobsen, anxious that the children in the districts should go further to receive offers from the State institution? And does the representative not agree that this will be a double burden for the children under child protection in the districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e496	I like the question. I think I and the representative Haukland are very different about this. For the centre party, this is about finding a way to re-prioritize. We don't go around thinking: oh, if we don't secure all of the private and commercial companies that are in operation right now, they'll come, for example. to go bankrupt. There has to be some overlap here, but the point is that we have to phase out those who take too much of the community's resources and put them in their own pockets, and rather build up the non-profit sector. Very well-known have very many of the large groups vacuumed the market for ideal actors. These are what we want to help build child protection. I don't think it's going to happen with a bankruptcy or being afraid of how far you're going, is what's going to hang over us. The most important thing here is to get the money back to the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e503	As the representative from the Central Party said from the pulpit, you want to move 150 million. kr from the private and commercial child protection actors of public child protection in one year. This shall be done at the same time as the offer is maintained. The Progress Party considers this to be unrealistic and is concerned about how to keep a professionally sound offer for the children at the same time. In addition, state compensation will in that case be significantly more expensive than the prices we see for the purchase of private services today. I therefore wonder how the Senterpartiet will replace the private offers overnight, and whether the Senterpartiet shares the concerns of the Progress Party about which offers children will remain if everything disappears overnight.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e510	Thank you for the questions. I don't think everything disappears overnight. What's very important for the Center Party is to signal in this budget that the extra funds that the government is spending, 150 million. NOK extra for the purchase of private child protection measures, we prefer that the state should use it. The local authorities are going to get that money. We're re-prioritising it to the state child protection. I don't see that as a very difficult task to carry out.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e518	It's an engagement that the Center Party and the Left have shared. It is the commitment to ensure that fathers are given the opportunity to withdraw their parental leave. Today it is still the case that if a father is to be paid leave, the mother is required to have paid work during pregnancy. Today, Father has an independent right of exit, but not an autonomous right of withdrawal. There's an ongoing process in the government to look at this, but we haven't found the room to prioritize this yet. There's something that's been criticized a lot by both the representative and the centre party in general, but when I read the budget of the Center Party, I see that it's set at $30 million. kr. At the same time, we know that getting to this is estimated at 600 million. SEK-800 million. kr. My question to the representative is: how many weeks of parental leave does the representative expect to be able to take 30 million. Do you really want to delete this item?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e525	Thank you for the question. I don't take that calculation, but what I know, is that when we asked the Ministry of Finance for figures on what would be the effect if we introduced the right of exit for fathers, it would be around that sum in the last six months. That's what we've calculated into that sum. We didn't get all of that money, either, but we really want to signal that we want to put that system in place. At least we've got funds for some of that sum. It is important to point out that for the Center Party, one has been giving municipalities a lot of money, because they need it. That is why we do not implement everything we want in all other items, but I share the view of the Left in this matter. Then we have to work together to get it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e532	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e537	Some of the best with Norway are small differences and strong communities. We have built this country for the many and not just for the few. Ordinary people have organized themselves to ensure a fair distribution of the values we create together, and we have fought for health, knowledge and security for all through the welfare community. The small differences have given us great confidence between people and made the road short from the plumber's son's door to the lawyer's daughter's door. It's one of the most beautiful things about Norway. But this strong community is threatened. Differences in power and wealth are increasing. The right-wing government is correcting the economic policy of the few at the expense of the many. Right-wing, Progress Party and Left-wing tailor-made policy for the elite in Norway. While the differences in power and wealth are increasing, the government is rigging important welfare offers such as child protection for the benefit of the few rather than caring for the small ones. They arrange tax fixing, tax fixing for the economic elite, with tax cuts where those who make over 10 million. kr, has received hundreds of times more than the low pay – a hundred times more. The result of this reverse Robin Hood distribution policy is that under the government of Solberg, we have received 108 billionaires while having over 100,000 children growing up in poor families. The growing child poverty is perhaps the worst consequence of the growing differences between people. There are over 100,000 children who have less opportunities in their childhood than other children, and many of them may be afraid of Christmas because they know that the family needs to give priority. It's so bloody unfair, because Norway anno 2018 is nothing poorer than before, no, on the contrary, we have enough wealth to make sure that everyone gets a safe and healthy crop. It's just about distribution. There is now a divisional struggle in all budget areas. Unlike the government, SV has taken sides with ordinary people, not with the economic elite and the welfare groups. In the budget we are discussing now, the distribution struggle is especially about whether the big money should go to the small ones among us, or whether they should go to the already large wallets and the large groups. SV chooses to prioritize the large sums to the smallest of us. We propose in our alternative budget to spend 1.8 billion. kr more to escalate the child's back. SV has fought in close proximity alone to increase child welfare, which has remained silent for over 20 years. That is why we are very pleased that the Christian People's Party has negotiated an increase in this year's budget agreement. But as Knut Arild Hareide himself said, negotiating with the blue-blue government, which has an unsocial policy, like starting a football game 0-2 in the government's favor – often the result is only 1-2 instead. This is undoubtedly the case this year, for example. because almost 50,000 children do not receive the increased child benefit because most municipalities withdraw the child benefit from social assistance. There are children who may need the most increased child-responsiveness, who are kept out. The social profile is also clear when the government gives four times more in tax cuts, mainly to the richest, than they spend on their so-called efforts to combat child poverty. The SV budget shows that there is an alternative — with increased child-responsiveness and, in addition, a policy against child-restraint where children can meet across backgrounds, with universal measures instead of testing needs, stigmatisation and poverty traps, which characterise government policies. We propose, among other things: Ten million. In addition, there is a need to improve the quality of life for young people in large urban communities, and we propose our own support scheme for free or discounted access to cultural and activity services for all children and young people. The fact that the government prioritises the wallets for the few at the expense of the many – and the vulnerable among us – is extra obvious in terms of child protection. There the government continues a policy to allow the owners of commercial groups to make a living on the community's money instead of making sure that the welfare crowns go to the child's care and protection. The red-green government launched a child-restraint lift with 1,000 new ear-marked positions for the municipal child-rescue service. It's been canceled by the government, and in this year's budget, there are zero new posts. At the same time, 80 pst says. of municipal child protection employees that there are too many cases and too little time to do a good enough job. It's serious. Therefore, one of the main priorities of the SV in this budget is to spend 230 million. kr more for new ear-marked child protection positions. It's about creating a society for the many, not just for the few. With that, I take up the SV's proposal in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e558	The representative Freddy André Supreme Court has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e565	For the Right and Government, a number of targeted measures have been important in relation to children living in persistent poverty. SV's clearest response to this in many budgets has been increased child-responsiveness. Your action list has been relatively empty in addition to this. We all know that child welfare has not been adjusted since 1996, or – in a different way – for 22 years. At the same time, we know that SV has been in government for eight of these years. I would therefore like to ask the representative of the Supreme Court what he thinks of the Workers' Party now, after the Christian People's Party did not choose their side, has scrapped the goal of increasing child welfare. Now it is more or less a utopian also for the representative Supreme Court to believe that other than a non-socialist government is able to deliver in this area, or to use football terminology, that it is now 1–0 for us.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e572	Thank you for a funny question. It's interesting to see how Right-wing representatives, as in debates, among other things. against the undersigned, has gone from believing that increased child-rescue is the timeless waste of money, to now being warm defenders. I am proud that SV has now for many years placed increased child welfare on the agenda as an important solution to combat child poverty. We have also seen with great joy that the Christian People's Party has been negotiating an increase in child welfare in this year's budget, but unfortunately the money does not reach all the children who need it. It has been known for a long time that SV and the Workers' Party disagree with regard to increasing child welfare. I find it disappointing to see the reaction of the Workers' Party to the increase in the Christian People's Party that was negotiated. Therefore, SV has also said that in order for us to sign an agreement on any new cooperation on the left hand side, increased child welfare needs to be part of the agreement. If not, we won't sign. You don't get any more clear demands than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e579	As we have talked about earlier today, a number of proposals are being made to improve the situation of children growing up in low-income families. There are many measures there that I perceive that the representative from SV also supports. Children are being lifted out of poverty today. However, due to a flawed and clever immigration policy under the red-green, new families of children are becoming part of the group defined as poor. According to the Nav report Low income and living conditions in Norway for 2018, the number of beneficiaries of social assistance has increased every year from 2012. The Brochmann II Committee's description of this link is: Increased economic inequality is likely to be an inevitable consequence of increased immigration, even with increased efforts to improve education and employment. My question therefore becomes: Is SV in agreement with this conclusion?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e586	I think it's quite special, to say it very carefully, that in 2018 we have over 100,000 children growing up in poor families, and so the representatives of the Progress Party choose to spend their time on blame for increased immigration from the red-green age. I really believe that the parties that are in government today must take responsibility for having had power for 5 years now. It is also a very rough and simplified presentation of the reality the representative Hemdal now refers to, because we see among families with so-called Norwegian ethnic background that there too is an increase in child poverty. And we see that the increase in the number and percentage of poor children still has after the refugee crisis in 2015. That is why it makes no sense to the representative of the Progress Party. SV is clear that this is also about redistribution policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e591	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e596	Today, we are going to adopt the children’s budget – the most vulnerable children’s budget. When the Left joined the government in January, it was on a platform that said clearly and clearly that a main goal was to reduce poverty, child poverty in particular, or rather to improve the situation for children living in low-income families. Child poverty is so innocent and unfair, and it is one of the darkest aspects of Norway today. In my neighborhood, Old Oslo, we have the highest proportion of children in low - income families in the country. Over half of the kids in my neighboring streets fall into this category. Children shall not be restricted by their parents’ background or choice. Where you are born, don't be critical of how you live or what opportunities you get. These children need help and follow-up from an early age, so we don't lose them on the way. Thanks to the Left, these children are given a solid boost in this budget, under several framework areas, for an overall response to poverty. We have provided free core time in the kindergarten. In recent years, we have gradually expanded the offer, and from next year, it will apply from the child's age of two if the family has low income. We believe that the package that children get by going to kindergarten – language, social skills, cultural codes, learning and playing – better equips them to school and to life that comes after. Now the research reports are coming, and they're saying the same thing. Children who have had free core time in kindergarten have better school performance, less exemptions from national tests and better language skills than those who have not taken advantage of this offer. To give children the opportunity to go to kindergarten is to give them the chance to create a better life. Free core time is just one of the targeted measures the government is using to help children out of poverty. The challenge is complex, and whatever the solution, it'll take time. One of the most important things we can do is get more of the parents into work so that families get a sustained increase in income. In this way, the government's inclusion capacity, with the aim of getting more people involved in the CV into the labour market, is also a tool to combat poverty. But for the children, the immediate, well, is as important as the long-term -- the experience of living on little there and then. They themselves have little or no opportunity to change their situation. The community around them must then take responsibility. We need to lighten the burden on children and help create a better childhood. That is why we are strengthening the national grant scheme against child poverty. Next year it's set of almost 300 million. kr for this purpose – a tripling from the scheme was established in 2014. This money goes a lot to give these children a meaningful time off and a good holiday offer right now. Much of this is also channelled through non-governmental organisations, organisations to which we also strengthen the economy in this budget. I would like to extend a great thank you to all the people who care about children and children in their communities, and who use their time to give these kids good experiences. The budget is worth a little bit if we don't get people with warm hearts to also contribute in their communities. In the budgetary union with the Christian People's Party, we also got another historic boost for families that need it the most, namely an increase in child welfare. Personally, I would probably have wanted an even clearer targeting of this social security, so that those who have the least, get the most, but this is anyway a very good start, and we thank the Christian People's Party for that. The child budget for 2019 has a profile that I believe is quite correct. The focus is on prevention, not on repair. It's about taking the most vulnerable children seriously. It is absolutely right to focus on parental support, the development of support tools for schools and kindergartens and to strengthen efforts to combat bullying. I am also pleased that the competence strategy for municipal child protection is being continued. We can solve most of the challenges with more knowledge, and with active prevention there will be fewer challenges to solve. This is the way to think about the future and the best way to take advantage of small spaces of action. I am sure that the 2019 budget will contribute to a better life for many of society's most vulnerable. At the same time, we're not on target, but we have to go into the new year with ground sleeves.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e624	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e629	This government has put equality in reverse by cutting in many areas and weakening the policy that has made Norway one of the world's most equal countries. This was fully in agreement with the Left Party as we dealt with the gender equality message a few years ago. The Workers' Party proposed more than 50 measures for a more offensive gender equality policy in the context of that Communication, and the Left was involved. Together, we got a majority and instructed the government in a number of matters. Before the Left Party joined the government, the representative, together with other colleagues, was outside and acknowledged the Metoo campaign and demanded ‘metoo-million’ in the State budget of the year. We haven't seen anything else. On the contrary, it is not a single equality policy measure against sexual harassment or anything else in this budget. Is the representative satisfied with the government's equality policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e634	Thank you for a good question. There is no secret that the Left is very concerned with both equality and ensuring that it counters discrimination. So I have to encourage the representative to look at what happened in the last few years, especially after the Left joined the government. In 2017, a common anti-discrimination law was adopted. This was a major and important work that provides a basis for the fight against discrimination, in which we must stand and which we must fight further. In addition, during this period, we agreed to arrange for a low-threshold offer and get it in place, as the Left actually suggested only in 2017, and which was repeated here in the Stortinge in our and once again adopted. Not least, we're going to provide the duty of activity and presentation, and then, thanks to the Christian People's Party, we've increased the grant to the equality centres, and then there's a third of the parental leave and a historically high spring quota. I think that's quite a good policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e643	The Committee examined in our representative proposal from the SV on increased body pressure and the advertising industry. An overall committee was promoted, inter alia: a proposal asking the government to ‘ensure a reinforced supervision of unhealthy advertising targeting children and young people, in particular advertising promoting unrealistic ideals of beauty and contributing to body pressure’. The Ministry writes that they will return to Stortinget. My impression is that the Left is at least equally concerned with securing children and young people safe adulthood, and I know that the representative on the same line with me is very restless on behalf of all children and young people who experience an enormous body and appearance pressure. So when can we expect the Left and the representative to continue with the decisions on enhanced supervision? How can this be done as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e648	Thank you for the question. In this area, I have full confidence in the Minister for Children and Gender Equality. She has clearly shown that this is something she is concerned about and has worked a lot with in this six months. Not least, several collections have been arranged to put in place the good measures we need in this area. It has also been followed up by several good proposals, including: when it comes to the area of influencers, to ensure that they have a new rulebook or poster for those on social media who are in fact the main influences on the growing generation of children and young people. I have full confidence that the minister will follow this up in a good way, and I see no reason to say that this work is going late, because at least the minister has been here.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e655	I thought I would follow up a bit where the representative from the Workers' Party left off. The representative of Almeland went out to the VG on 29 August this year and demanded so-called metoo-millions in the state budget. Almeland explained what he meant: ‘We propose the creation of a pot on the State budget from which various organisations and others working against sexual harassment can apply for funds from.’ Good idea, and SV has actually suggested 20 million. kr to just that in our budget. But we could also with disappointment see that the left did not get through. One year after the Metoo movement started, the government provided a budget that, with the exception of support for Balance Art – all the credit for it – was without any new means of working against sexual harassment. On the contrary, the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman and the Discrimination Department are actually included in this budget. I wonder if the representative Almeland has lost the metoo funds on the road, or what really happened?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e665	First of all, it is gratifying that the representative from SV thinks my proposals are good, and with that call I will make sure to send over several of my proposals in the future, so that they can be taken into consideration. When it comes to work on discrimination and equality, there were several ongoing processes, as I explained after the question from the Labour Party. Among other things, it is this low-threshold offer that we in Stortinget decided to deliver on in the 2020 budget, at least for that. I believe that the overall processes in progress are so good, and there is much to be done in this area. It has provided concrete funds both to the equality centres and to Balance Art, as was said, and I hope, of course, that my ideas will come true in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e672	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e677	Today, we are going to debate part of the Norwegian state budget in the shadow of – or rather, in the light of – the two Nobel Prize winners who are today to receive their prizes and tributes from an entire world society. Murad and Mukwege tell us about a reality that's hard to take in here where we turn our Adventist and buy Christmas presents to family and friends. Of the most difficult things we can imagine, the stories of children who are raped and killed in front of their parents are those of their parents. We know that violence and rape by children and women are used as weapons in war, because it most effectively dissolves society and drives people away – because families are the building blocks of society, not only here in Norway, but also in Congo and Iraq. That is why our fight for children and the safety of families must extend beyond borders. As the Christian People's Party has defined in its programme, we will continue to fight for more attention to be paid to women and children's vulnerable situations in war and conflict. It may seem navigable to look at domestic challenges when, on a day like this, we have to pay particular attention to the challenges world society collectively has to take responsibility for ensuring children and women's rights in war, but it is precisely the most vulnerable children in our society the Christian People's Party prioritises in our budgets and budget negotiations. We know that children in Norway too are subjected to violence and abuse. The Christian People's Party has long fought for a broad and powerful effort to help these children. The plan of action against violence and abuse is important in this way, and an increased commitment must be followed up in the future. In the alternative budget of the Christian People's Party, we strengthened the appropriations for the fight against violence and assault by over half a billion dollars. In addition to the political will to give priority to this, we must also contribute to raising the issues on the agenda and informing all children that not all secrets should be kept. There's also another group of vulnerable children we're unfortunately seeing are growing, and there's the proportion of poor children here to land. Now a whole of ten children live in families with persistent low incomes. When the Christian People's Party has fought this year through a historic strengthening of child-responsiveness, it is primarily because increasing child-responsiveness is the most effective measure to combat child-restraint. Then the Christian People's Party would want far more for the children than the 1000-note of the year we got in this round. But we have to remember that child welfare has been silent for 22 years, and that's why it's a thousandfold important for several reasons: first, it means to some families that they can actually buy new skis or football shoes for the kids next year. Secondly, the strengthened family economy in general contributes to increased freedom of choice for families, and thirdly, the locked-up child's freedom has now come out of prison, and the Christian People's Party will continue to fight to make it grow bigger and stronger in the years to come – for the sake of children. Finally, I would like to point to the impact of the Christian People's Party on increased one-off social benefits. This is probably a budget award for the children – the children born to parents who are studying or for other reasons have not worked out their leave. Those children deserve and need exactly as much care, and they have exactly the same material needs as those children with parents who may receive over 600,000 in parental custody. Also children of students need a cradle, a carriage, warm clothes. A reinforced disposable benefit is to ensure that all newborn children are provided with the basic needs. The Christian People's Party is the party of children and families and vote here on the Stortinget. I think we have done so once again with this year's budget year's award for, among other things. increased child-restraint and one-off support. But the job is far from finished, and the Christian People's Party will continue to talk about the family case, no matter which table we're sitting around.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e696	If we give children a good upbringing, they also get good conditions to grow up to be independent people, get a education, get a job, create a home for themselves and theirs and contribute to a sustainable welfare society. The government's proposals and the budget agreement we are debating today represent a significant effort on the part of children and young people. I'm glad. We are working to increase social mobility by including more people in the labour market and reducing the risk of living conditions challenges being inherited. In this context, strengthening the unloading system is important. This is an action that can really help many, many more back in education and, therefore, across the labour market. Efforts towards families with persistent low incomes have been further strengthened through the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party. This includes, inter alia: that several children in low-income families have the opportunity to live an active life with active participation in leisure activities and to be part of our small and large communities throughout the country. The formidable escalation of this in recent years speaks for itself. Violence is one of the most serious threats to a safe and good childhood. The follow-up to the plan of escalation against violence and abuse is thus one of the top priorities of the government. The total commitment for 2019, including the budget agreement, will be close to 1 billion. kr. It gives us the opportunity to strengthen prevention, it gives us the opportunity to discover more when it happens, and it gives us the opportunity to help more children, and not least also to contribute to an assistance service for the attackers, so that they have an opportunity to get help with their problem. The initiative also includes strengthening parental support and prevention through Alternatives to Violence and Family Protection, so that more families affected by violence around the country can receive help. The government's goal is that no child should be hit by violence. It's a very high ambition, but we don't have any children to lose, and no children are going to live unsafe at home with their family, where they're really going to be safest. In the field of child protection, we work to increase competence. That's why we've done $30 million. kr for a digital lift. There, child protection workers spend too much time reporting, archiving and reporting, and they are hampered by working out with their children and their families because they have old computer systems and still send letters of person-sensitive information. It is absolutely vital that this digital effort now has come into place, and that will lead to us moving time from offices and desks and out into the field, where efforts are to be stepped up. The budget agreement has also strengthened the community's guidance and support for foster homes of 25 million. kr. It's love. We still have a gender-based working life, and in order to strengthen the sustainability of the welfare society, more women and men need to make untraditional educational and professional choices. The government therefore proposes funds for action to improve gender balance in education and to increase the proportion of female leaders. This budget is a very good budget for children and young people, for families, for equality, and not least for better help to the most vulnerable and vulnerable people around Norway, children who are subjected to violence and care failure.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e714	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e719	After the Prime Minister opened the door to negotiations on, and then restrictions on, the abortion law, there have rightly been great protests in the people. Yes, hundreds of thousands of people took to the streets on Saturday, November 17. Politicians from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Advance Party have discussed with us from the opposition in all channels for a long time – yes, almost all of Norway has discussed abortion in the last few months, with one exception: the Minister for Gender Equality. The law of abortion and the right to rule over one's own body are one of the greatest prizes for equality policy. When the Council of State does not wish to comment on the matter or to put it to debate, we must use the occasion here today when we are discussing the budget. For the Council of State, as is also stated in the budget proposal on page 119, there is a responsibility for promoting equality in all sectors, and of course women's health is mentioned. Does the Council of State think it would have been right to make restrictive changes to today's abortion law?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e726	That's not right, what the representative Trettebergstien says here. I have black Storting about the abortion law, and I have also answered the media a number of times about the abortion law, and I can repeat what I have said. I have said that the right of women to control their own bodies is a fundamental right, and it is well protected by today's legislation. I am pleased that both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health have been very clear that women's rights should not be weakened. They have to be stuck. And as several representatives from the government have also said, there is no work going on in the government to change today's abortion law. Nor is there any doubt that I am of course concerned about strengthening women's rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e731	To take the facts first, today you have free abortion until 12 weeks. If you say no to foetal reduction before 12 weeks, it is a violation of the law. Removing serious illness and harm as an independent abortion criterion would also be a restriction of the law. The Minister for Gender Equality should know that, and she should acknowledge that. And when hundreds of thousands of people have been discussing abortion for months now, it's because there's obviously something going on, even though the council claims the government doesn't think about this. But okay, I ask again, because the Council of State is concerned about abortion globally, she's even a champion of the SheDecides campaign, which is a campaign that defends women's right to abortion internationally – so it's not that the Council of State generally won't mean anything about abortion, she just won't mean anything about the current debate here in Norway, and it's weak by a Minister of Gender Equality: Is the Council of State for or against restrictions in today's abortion law?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e738	I hope the representative understands that I am not commenting on any investigations or negotiations for a future extended government. I'm dealing with today's abortion legislation. As the representative should know, the abortion law is also not my constitutional responsibility and my portfolio. Of course, I would like to comment on the gender perspective in all sectors, and there I can repeat what I said instead: Women's right to decide over their own bodies should be fixed. Women’s rights in the case of abortion shall not be impaired at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e743	Equality policy in Norway has been safe and stable in many ways, but suddenly it does not, for now the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have warned that they consider changing the abortion law. As the Labour Party representative was involved, it has been difficult to understand what our Minister for Equal Opportunities thinks about this problem. She has not spoken so much about the matter. To ask in a different way than the representative of the Workers' Party did, for this I am very concerned to know: Can the Minister for Gender Equality here and now confirm that, for the financial year 2019, she intends to play an active role in maintaining the abortion law we have adopted?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e750	Of course. I'm on today's abortion code. I stand up to protect and promote women's rights in deciding about their own bodies. We're not doing any work now to change this legislation. Of course, I cannot comment on any future negotiations and the discussions that will take place there on such a possible question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e755	The right side has run the country for five years now, and over the five years we have had 108 billionaires in the country and record many – over 100,000 – children growing up in poor families. The right side has recently spent some time apologizing for the record high child poverty with immigration, although the increase also affects so-called ethnic Norwegian children and still has after the refugee crisis in 2015, and that children with migrant backgrounds born and raised in Norway are also included in the statistics. I would like to ask the Council of State if she can agree that distribution policies have something to do with increasing child poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e762	We've seen an increase from 2006, when SV put in government and Kristin Halvorsen said that you should delete the child poverty with a pen stroke. It turned out to the SV manager that it was not that easy. In 2006, there were 67,300 children who were poor, and according to 2016 figures, 101,300 children live in families with persistently low incomes. For the government, this is one of our top priorities. We've said that this is one of our most important goals to work with. So we're also going to add 181 million. to focus efforts on children living in families with persistently low incomes. We work very actively in several areas, because we see that it's an increase. But the most important thing we can do is get parents to work, and that's why it's important to lower taxes and create more jobs across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e767	It is quite interesting that we first spend time blaming the growing child poverty that is taking place on this government's guard, on immigration, and now the Council of State is also able to blame Kristin Halvorsen and something that happened 8-9 years ago. There is evidence that there is no responsibility for a record child poverty while this government is ruling. In the government's proposal for a government budget, they spend four times more on tax cuts, mainly to the richest, than they do in their so-called efforts to combat child poverty. For any reason, it is clear that the result is that child poverty has increased from about 8 p.m. in 2013 to over 10 pst. Now. There are over 100,000 children. When the increase is so obvious, I almost have to ask the council if she can't admit that the government's policy against child poverty has at least not been entirely successful, and that it might be time to make some adjustments.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e776	When I mentioned the well-known quote from the SV manager that it was just erasing child poverty with a pen stroke, it was to show the complexity of this. This isn't just about one-sided increase in appropriations, as SV has very easy to believe, that just giving you enough money, you want to solve the problem. No, this is about what the Right and the rest of the government are working on every single day, creating more jobs. That's why we're reducing taxes, so we're making it possible for jobs to be created, which in turn creates tax revenues, which we can also apply to children living in sustainable low-income families. Although we increase the priorities of the state budget of these families and children never so much, there is one thing that we know helps to get them out of poverty, and that is that mother and father get work. That's where the government's policy works.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e784	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e789	Universal welfare systems strengthen the community and are crucial to lifting people out of poverty. Government policies, on the other hand, create increasing differences. With civil government, the number of children in poverty is increasing sharply. Unfortunately, the over 100,000 children now living in families with persistently low incomes, children and young people who lack leisure opportunities, and all the families who are struggling to make ends meet, are once again becoming budget papers. The red alternative government budget shows that it is possible to change the price, that it is possible to strengthen the community. Arguing governments have left behind increasing child-responsiveness. Nor has it been increased to follow the price increase in the last 22 years. That is why it was nice that there was finally a small increase, but the delay is not repeated. Red increases child welfare by about twice the amount proposed in the budget agreement. And perhaps most importantly, our increase applies to everyone, including the almost 50,000 children who see nothing of the increase from the bourgeois, since the family they live in receives social support. We are also increasing the national grant scheme against child poverty, such as: support holiday activities for children and young people in families with persistently low incomes. An increase here will give a breather room to the many families that meet in the summer with a lump in their stomach. Combating the emergence of Difference Norway should be the main task of a State budget. It's basically about what kind of society our children are going to grow up in. Will they grow up and get it better and safer than their parents, to which generation after generation has become accustomed in Norway, or is there more uncertainty and increased class divisions waiting for them? Unfortunately, the government's proposal has a bad course towards the last. I think a lot of people also expected the government to grant money to prevent sexual harassment after metoo, but unfortunately there was only a small amount of money. In addition, we know that about one in ten women have been raped, and that 8 pst. has been subjected to serious violence from partners. This requires political action and means to prevent both rape and sexual harassment, to combat violence against women and to provide a safe offer to those who have been subjected to violence and abuse. We do so in our budget, and we also increase support for the Committee on Equal Opportunities and Discrimination in our budget. Crisis centres have housed over 100,000 women and children in the last 25 years. They are literally vital to many. Therefore, we ensure these centres earmarked grants in the budget, where the government covers 80 pst. the operation. Child protection is the responsibility of many of the most vulnerable children in our society. We are committed to strengthening the staffing of municipal child protection and also to increasing the contribution to long-term development work in order to increase the competence and knowledge of child protection. We do not want to leave the care of the most vulnerable among us to profit-motivated actors. Because when it's important to deliver profit to the owners, it's risky that the children are no longer in the center, that they can't get the offer they're actually entitled to. Our view is that the community's money allocated to child protection should go unabated to these children and young people, and not to the profit of a few who enrich themselves. In addition, we reverse the cuts in the so-called ABE reform, which has for five years provided planless cheese needs, which in total weaken important services in the public sector. So in our range, it's equal to 40 million. kr mer till e.g. child protection and family protection. It is possible to increase child-responsiveness. It is possible to put in place measures to strengthen equality, combat violence, rape and sexual harassment. It is also possible to strengthen public welfare if we give priority to strengthening the community over the government's ineffective cut in the taxes of the richest.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e808	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e813	Red's alternative budget shows that it is possible to change course," says Moxnes. I guess no one in this room is in any doubt that it will lead to a radically changed course. Menon presented a report last week that says something about private providers, and here are some figures: the operating margins for businesses providing child protection services are 5 pst. on average in 2017. The result is just over 18 million. kr in dividends, while 430 million. kr has been returned to the company and 130 million. NOK has been paid in taxes. How does Red think that we will still be able to provide both good and sufficient child protection services if a large part of the suppliers were to be thrown out almost overnight, which is some of the consequences of Red's policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e822	The commercial know one thing: dividends are for amateurs. So that entry would like to put them in zero. They get out our tax money, allocated to children and young people in child protection, in completely different ways – not least through resale, purchase and realization of winnings in the hundreds of millions of years. This is money that crowns for crowns come from our taxes, which should have gone to strengthen the offer for vulnerable children in the care of child protection, and which instead is taken out in profit of hundreds of millions of owners of some commercial companies. It's pointless. We want a diversity of public and private ideal actors in well-being. The commercial threatens diversity, buys up the ideals and takes money out of the child protection that would go to the children. Instead, it goes to private and rich. We're against that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e829	The representative from Red said in his speech that the increases they wanted to make would apply to everyone. However, this also applies to the increases of nearly 40 billion. in taxes presented by Red in its budget. There is a nail in the box for both value creation and job growth, and not least it will actually make it less profitable to work. Is not the representative from Red concerned about the consequences such a massive tax increase could have for individuals, but not least for families with children?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e834	First, I have to be corrected: we are going back to what was the tax level in 2013, that is, when Jens Stoltenberg crashed the country. Very well known was the private enterprise in 2013 in Norway, where value creation was found — even with a tax level that we are now going back to. So we're going to reverse the bourgeois tax cuts and pick up another 28 billion dollars. kr. But if you make less than $600,000, you don't get one penny, or one penny, in the tax increase with Red's scheme. Serve you over a million, you can afford to pay something more to the community. And you have over 100 million. kr in wealth – and thus lives on the value of others, lives on the work of others – you can also afford to pay more to the community to finance a strong increase in child welfare and a strong commitment to well-being in the municipalities of the country, which are necessary to combat the growing differences that we see under a bourgeois regime.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e839	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e844	Equality does not come of itself. You have to work every day to change the structures that create the difference. The working party does that. We showed it when we presented our alternative equality message a couple of years ago, and we show it in every alternative state budget, where we put on the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman, where we got the Dad quota reintroduced. We have proposed our own tripartite cooperation in the field of equality, our own municipal programme and full-time projects in the workplace. We have proposed to strengthen the obligation of activity and reporting. We are proposing changes in structural equality policies that can create the changes in society that make equality and more freedom possible in people's lives. We're going to spend 750 million. in this budget for structural equality. And then we have 1.2 billion. kr in a package against violence and abuse. The last year has been marked by the metoo campaign. Now all the ladies know that you can and should say from if you experience an assault, because the strength of being many and standing together is great. People know the lights are on them. No one can no longer fool away the social problem of sexual harassment. But if we are to create lasting change, politics must take this seriously. The broad gender equality policy is the best and only means of combating harassment and abuse, because it takes place on the basis of differences in power and authority. All politicians from all parties supported the campaign – perhaps with the exception of Sylvi Listhaug from the Progress Party, most of us were shocked by the stories we heard. But we politicians have a responsibility to do more than support campaigns and show our support. The big deal makes laws, the government grants money. Policies alone, of course, cannot solve the problem of sexual harassment, but we can take measures that make it more difficult to cope with. At the same time as the Metoo campaign took off, the government provided a budget that cut the low-threshold offers – such as Free Legal Aid, Gate Lawyer, Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman, equality centres, etc. A lot of us had thought that the last year was going to be an eye opener for the right government too – yes, the left went out and demanded metoo-millions. But what did we get? Nothing in the world – there are no new equality policies in the budget. It's like metoo never happened. On the contrary, policies are continuing with budgetary stagnantness and real cutbacks for those engaged in this important work every day. The Equality Ombudsman already asked the government in the revised budget in May to get a crowd of millions because they felt that the pressure from businesses and actors who wanted to be trained in how to counter sexual harassment was so great. But LDO, the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman, got no. In the budget this year again, they feel that they have to reduce their activity. All the gender policy measures mentioned so far by government representatives in the debate as evidence that they work for equality — whether there have been lowthreshold offers or 2 million. more to the gender equality centres in the budgetary agreement – are essentially proposals against which the government parties have opposed but which the opposition in the Stortinget has instructed the government to implement. It is a bit symptomatic of the difference between the opposition in Stortinget and the Right, the Advance Party and now – unfortunately – the Left. All the gender mainstreaming policies that have been important and that work have been opposed to the right. We have had to drag them backwards and reluctantly into the future. Obviously, that's the way it's going to be in the future, but we're not going to give up. We have 750 million. kr to equal opportunities in our budget and SEK 1.2 billion. for action against violence and abuse and against women’s health. It was just supposed to be missing. We mean something by that when we say that we want to increase equality.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e859	I'm getting tired of SV's repeated, but false rhetoric about a policy for the rich and for the elite. In fact, Norway is among the countries with the lowest inequalities in the world, and one of the reasons for this is that the government is pursuing a policy that allows people to have a job to go to, while at the same time lifting the efforts of the families who are struggling with the weak economy. SV consistently does not refer to immigration as one of the main causes of the increase in families with persistently low incomes. It doesn't fit in with their reality, where tax relief should be the only scapegoat. Among refugees, we know that only 51.4 pst. have elementary education. Then we must not be surprised that it takes time for them to get into work, and that they therefore have a difficult economic situation. The Brochmann II Committee describes this context: ‘Increased economic inequality is likely to be an inevitable consequence of increased refugee immigration, even with increased emphasis on education and labour-oriented measures.’ We see that the government's policy is working. Unemployment has barely been lower in ten years, and the proportion of the unemployed in the immigration population is also falling. The employment rate has turned upside down, the proportion of young people without work, school or activity is falling for the first time in ten years, and we also see that the number of young people receiving social assistance is falling for the first time in ten years. All in Norway have received tax credits since 2013. Half of the personal taxes have gone to people with normal incomes. It's money that families can spend on well-being for themselves and their families. The tax rate for business is lower for Norwegian jobs. When asked about families themselves, many will likely experience a significantly better life situation after coming to Norway. The proportion reported in the SSB living conditions survey that they have material deficiencies is 4.9 pst. In 2004, the figure was 9 pst. This government's ability to have two thoughts in its head at the same time. On the one hand, we focus on education and getting the most into working life. On the other hand, we're busy helping those who need it here and now. This is done through a series of targeted actions, as well as increasing child welfare for the first time since 1996. The non-socialist parties have increased the allocation of family protection, parental support, health and school health services, child protection, drug and psychiatry care and the fight against violence and abuse. We have introduced a more reasonable childcare space for low-income families and a national free core time scheme in kindergartens for all children in low-income families. We have made sure that young people in low-income families get more in school scholarships and start a trial project with free part-time in the school leisure system. In 2017, 21,000 children were granted free core time in kindergartens, and in 2018 35 700 children were also granted a reduction in parental pay due to low income. The national grant scheme against child poverty has tripled from 100 million. SEK in 2014 for proposed SEK 312 million. kr in 2019. The Red Cross, the Blue Cross, the Red Child and the Church's Bymition are some of the great grant recipients. Children growing up in low-income families must have the same opportunities and the same freedom as everyone else to create their own future. The extension of the free core-time system for two-year-olds will contribute to increased childcare use for low-income families and to improved integration and language training among minority-speaking children. The 2019 budget contains a number of good measures that are either new or based on what we have done in recent years. Let's add 20 million. DKK for youth follow-up and pilotage, SEK 10 million. NOK 46 million for a pilot project to cover the costs of participating in organised leisure activities. SEK for free core time in kindergarten for two-year-olds, 60 million. to strengthen the housing support scheme for families with children and other large households. It's proposed 20 million. to various cultural actions to stimulate diversity, integration and poverty reduction, with a total of 18 million. kr for inclusion in sports teams for 2019. This government, together with the Christian People's Party, has a policy that delivers both in the long term, by equipping individual children and young people to become a part of tomorrow's working life, and in the short term, with a policy that makes it easier to get through the tough days here and now.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e890	In the last five years, the proportion of part-time workers has fallen from 40 pst. in 2013 to 36 pst. today. In the state sector, 56 pst. by the leaders of women. Differences between average wages and salaries of women and men have decreased from 2015 to 2017. Women are now a majority of graduates at universities and colleges, and in the case of doctoral degrees, women are now in a majority. In the rest of the world, it raises awareness when it comes to female prime minister, female foreign minister and female finance minister — and not least female wholesalers. In addition, a Norwegian woman is the head of the United Nations operation in the Middle East, as the first woman, and the majority of the main social organisations are run by women. But we're not on target. We have some solid-sized patterns that we have to work on solving, and we have some new challenges. It's about structures, values and attitudes, and it takes time to change them. I want to mention some challenges. Metoo has shown that we have not managed to build good enough culture in industries, parties and organizations against sexual harassment. That is why the government is proposing 1.5 million. to promote a more equal and diverse art and cultural life by developing courses aimed at the field of culture and a system of labels for cultural actors who are well acquainted with society. We need to achieve a better gender balance in all industries, not least where the need for labour is already known to be high, as in the health and care sectors. In order to promote gender equality in the labour market, the government proposes to strengthen NHO projects such as girls and technology with 1 million. NOK – to a total of 3,5 million. kr. In addition, the government proposes 2 million. to other measures which may contribute to a more balanced gender balance in the educational pathways. The Ministry of Children and Gender Equality and the Ministry of Culture will give priority to the recruitment of men to primary school and kindergarten teachers and to education in the health and care sectors. We need female leaders and role models in business, and the government is therefore proposing 2 million. to increase the proportion of female top managers in business. Women with a minority background also have to work. The government’s integration strategy aims to increase the participation of immigrants in working and social life. It's important that they become part of big and small communities in our society. One of the measures is to strengthen labour-oriented measures for women and to open up work with social entrepreneurs to get more people to work. We must also work against coercion and negative social control. Young people with a minority background must be able to live a free life. Children and young people, women and men shall not experience that their rights are restricted by the family and the environment around them. Therefore, there is a need for a clear response to negative control. In particular, public services facing people in vulnerable situations, such as child protection, need to have specific competence in this area. However, the issue is equally valid for all boys and girls, women and men, regardless of their background, given that they grow up and live in an environment that limits their opportunities. Negative social control restricts the freedom of each individual and discourages inclusion. I would also like to point out that the Storting in our home decided on an absolute 18-year-old age limit for marriage in Norway, as forcing minors may be the ultimate example of negative social control. Finally, we need clear guidelines to avoid children and young people being subjected to unhealthy body pressure through social media. That is why I am pleased that the government is proposing to increase the Consumer Protection Authority's budget by 10 million. kr, earmarked for, among others. supervision and follow-up of the labelling of advertising by bloggers and influencers.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e904	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e909	It is important to continue the efforts of a more equal society. That's what this government, and it's a pusher for, despite what the representatives from, among other things. The working party seems to be watching. But it is understandable that when you follow the policy with the thickest skyscrapers, it is difficult to get the full picture. The Norwegian labour market is still gender-divided. Women continue to work more part-time, earn less and sit in less decision-making positions than men. And when we also put behind a metoo year, and have got our eyes up on how many women have been treated in the workplace, we may be even more aware that the fight is really not over. The left was therefore a driver to create a low-threshold offer for people who have experienced sexual harassment, and I am pleased that the government is working on the follow-up to what became a decision to collapse. We have also decided to maintain and strengthen the obligation of activity and reporting by employers, a tool that I believe will make a great difference, as well as many of the other measures that I have mentioned earlier in this debate. This relates in particular to the increase in the spring quota. In this budget, with the Left pushing, we have achieved a historically high spring quota. And when my colleagues and I go out and talk about this in the media, there are suddenly representatives from the Workers' Party and the Center Party we meet as opponents of this feather quota. Where did the exposure to the spring ratio go? At the same time, we see that the father's quota is threatened by several companies that want to buy their fathers free of this feather quota. I think we have to take care to protect about the good equality measures that we have after all, and support them. The representative of the Trettebergstuen of the Workers' Party said that the legal aid measures had been cut. That's not true either. The voluntary legal aid measures have received a real increase in the budget for 2019 – as opposed to the budget of the City Council of Oslo, among others. with the Workers' Party, which, inter alia: the aid to JURK was proposed to be cut. So here I think the Labour Party has to re-read the budget. Then it is important to point out that, unfortunately, discrimination does not limit itself to sex and working life. Many people in Norway belong to one or more minorities, and ever new reports and reports show that this can be difficult, and that we also need to put pressure on them. It is important to put in place the knowledge that we have gained through these reports, and I am pleased that we have a government and state councils who want to raise this up and put in a clear effort forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e922	The clock has passed 12, and the Stortinget is now interrupting its negotiations in order for representatives to be able to participate in the Nobel Peace Prize ceremony in Oslo City Hall. The meeting will be revisited at 9.30 a.m. 15.30, and the next speaker is Sigbjørn Gælsvik. The meeting was cancelled at 0 p.m. 12.01. ----- The meeting resumed its negotiations at 9 a.m. 3:30.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e939	The decision continues to deal with case No. 1) Framework area 2 of the budget position of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e944	The Centre Party will facilitate families to live, work and live good lives throughout Norway. We want to strengthen family policy, we want to give parents room to be parents, we want to balance social differences, create good quality of life and give all children the right to a safe and healthy upbringing. It is worrying that fewer children are still born in Norway. The number of children per woman in Norway has dropped every year in the last 10 years and has not been measured lower than now. There's something else that's also very worrying. It is that child poverty in Norway is high — persistently high. Over 100,000 children live in families with persistently low incomes. When I hear representatives from the government parties standing and boasting of all the measures they have taken, they do not take seriously the practical consequences of the policy that has been pursued – that one has not managed to do anything about child poverty, and that there are historically many children living in families that are persistently poor, who have persistently low incomes – not just for one month, not just for two months but persistently low incomes. Therefore, it is incredibly important to strengthen the economy of families with children, to simplify the everyday life of families with children and to strengthen measures for those who are particularly vulnerable. One of the most important things to do is to strengthen the economy of municipalities, so that municipalities have the opportunity to make good use of them. It concerns everything from having a good midwife service and solid health centres, increasing the coverage of health sisters, strengthening the PPT and strengthening voluntary organisations to having a good school that sees everyone and that can facilitate better than today. There has been a little talk in the debate about the protection of children and the re-prioritisation of the Centre Party. It is absolutely right that we re-prioritize some funds from the private to the public – 150 million. kr. But it's a very small amount compared to the great re-priority that happened the other way last year from the majority. Then it was taken 500 million. kr from public child protection and given to the private. Taking something back this year is sensible policy. The center party will strengthen the families of children. We will strengthen the economy of families with children through redistribution in the tax system, through targeted measures for families with children and through strengthening public welfare. We do that in our alternate budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e959	The centre party is responsible for roots and wings, change and innovation in cultural policy. The characteristics of cultural activities are extensive hard work, voluntary personal effort for shared joy. Map of some institutions: The Vikersund Hoppsenter Foundation is the owner of Vikersund ski airfield, which is a national facility and among a few facilities worldwide. A huge effort is being made, and the Centre Party is pleased and supporting the 2.5 million allocation. kr over the state budget of the foundation. Justification: national plants with very high quality and safety requirements in the hopping tray. I would like to stress the need for the Ministry to evaluate and ensure that there is transparency about the significant advertising revenue, and that the organisers of Vikersund get a greater income share for their efforts. The Bush Museum is a consolidated museum, poorly operated and financially run on the rim. The central party understands the Workers' Party's proposal to increase the funding by 5 million. NOK, but the main point is that the operating model is incorrect. The cost-effective and bureaucratic administration does not provide the necessary professional support for the operation of the various museums, and the economic model implies that good operation and great effort will not be left in the museum. Consolidated museum model must be reviewed by the ministry. The individual museum within the consolidated museum model must have a far more freer role to stimulate self-activity. They must receive a budget and technical assistance from the consolidated museum, and then each institution must operate well. Better operations shall pay off financially for those operating locally. The Mining Museum is a national battle with a unique history. The mint shall sell its premises. The centre party supports the state's need to buy back the buildings so that the Mining Museum can use them and further develop them for its pressing needs. Nøstetangen Norwegian glass museum in Hokksund: «The Committee points out that the Nøstetangen Norsk Glassmuseum in Hokksund in Buskerud wants to develop further anchored in the national cultural heritage Nøstetangen Glassverk. The Committee welcomes this initiative.’ The centre party supports the initiative, but will stress that the Norwegian glass museum of Nøstetangen needs to develop further into a national special museum of glass – very important to be precise. The Norwegian glass museum has built up a presentation of Norwegian small glass production from 1741 until today. The center party will have a priority of 3 million. kr in the year's budget, so that the museum can better generate its national valuable work in the coming years. Finally, with regard to what it says about the West Fossen Art Laboratory. When the Centre Party is not aware of it, it is because the Note is not adequate for the actual conditions. West Fossen Art Laboratory has been an enrichment for West Fossen. The problem, however, is that what is described as a vital heavyweight, unfortunately there is no root in the numbers visited. The share of own resources is now only 5 p.m., the state funding is 6 million. NOK, and the negative equity is SEK 4 million. kr. So the foundation is in a very difficult situation, and the whole operation needs to be reviewed in order to get an overview of the whole. The centre party does not support an increased
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e979	The representative, Lundtigen, is as usual forward-looking – this time a little at the top of the table, since this article was for framework area 3, which will soon be discussed. We're going back to border area 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e984	There is a alarming need for an increase in the number of employees in municipal child protection. It has been made visible for a long time now, for example: by the Joint Organisation, which organises most people working in municipal child protection. It becomes very clear when the entire 80 pst. employees say they do not have time to do their job satisfactorily. Some child protection case handlers report that they are responsible for up to 40 children at all times. The working conditions are so tough that we see a significant tour over many municipalities. Conditions do not improve because employees are exposed to violence, threats and networks. In addition, we see that increasing differences between people provide an increased need for well-equipped child protection. Regrettably, families with living conditions challenges are over-represented in child protection. SV proposes delegating funds to municipal child protection because we are very concerned about the condition and take employees’ needs seriously. Competence enhancement and new IT solutions are well and good, but how should employees be able to work with skills enhancement when they are exhausted, overworked and the number of cases is increasing? The first priority for a responsible government should be to ensure the most vulnerable of all.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e995	We need more warm hands in our society, not fewer, and the Right wants a policy that builds up under just that. It's a responsibility I think all politicians have. It is critical that the opposition draws a picture of private service providers in a hostile motive, where services to the weak are referred to as ‘profit’ and ‘exploitation’. I think this is unfair to those who work in private care. They don't have to call hands or colder hearts than others. A shift in this policy changes a practice that has been conducted for more than 50 years, even under the red-green government. It is therefore strange that the principles should be different for this government. A recently published report by Menon Economics on private welfare companies, including private welfare institutions, show that the bulk of the profits are channelled back to businesses and to development, and that the tax contribution is higher than the dividends. This is actually a rather different image than what the opposition is trying to draw. The opposition in this room tells a story that all the money disappears out of businesses and out of the country. As a district representative in this room, I see that the municipalities in the districts are dependent on private institutional places, often because they want to prevent the child from moving far away from its usual surroundings. It can be experienced as a double burden for children and young people. At the same time, there is also a financial burden on the municipality, which is to follow up on its children relocated around the country. Such a scheme contributes to comprehensive travel costs and not to the benefit of children and young people. The government strengthens child protection, and a competence strategy is in place up to 2024, which strengthens both education and training in the field of service, so that more child-restraint workers can start their professional careers. The government has proposed 30 million in the budget. kr to the DigiBarnevar project, which will provide the municipal child protection with a highly needed digital boost. Today, employees have little access to digital support. File documents are sent to the post office, and a lot of reporting is done manually. Administrative tasks take time from working with the children and their families. A digital shift in child protection will provide child protection with more time for children.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1010	Feminism is about liberating and about having equal opportunities for all sexes – that is also the goal of SV. But despite important victories from the women's movement, we do not yet have an equal and liberated society. Women still have systematically less power and opportunities than men. Yes, in some areas there is even a wrong path. This summer we could, for example, read that women now take more responsibility at home than before, in relation to men. Not least, the social revolution that the Metoo movement has been, once and for all, has put words on what many of us have known, namely that sexual harassment is a fundamental social problem that restricts women's freedom and opportunities fundamentally. When almost half of all women over 17 years of age say they have been exposed to unwanted or unpleasant sexual attention, sexual harassment is a social problem that needs to be solved through policy action at the very social level. Sexual harassment is about lack of equality, it is about a lack of power between women and men and about uncertainty in the labour market. Therefore, there was some expectation that the government budget that was presented quite exactly one year after the start of the Metoo movement would bear some impact on it, and that the government in the state budget would spend money on the important work against sexual harassment. On the contrary, however, in this budget, it is real to the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman and to the Discrimination Department – two of the most important front fighters against sexual harassment. It just doesn't matter. Therefore, SV in its alternative budget proposes a power package with an increase in the earmarked fight against sexual harassment, of 44 million. kr. In addition, the fight against sexual harassment is linked to the entire broad gender equality struggle, and SV prioritises this freedom struggle in its alternative state budget. Among other things, we are proposing to grant fathers a self-exemptive right to the family quota, so that it will make it easier for men from day one to take a greater share of the responsibility for the care of the children. It's good for the children, who get more attached to both caregivers in life, it's good for the fathers, who can take more part in the lives of the children, and not least it's good for the women, who can be more easily involved in the work when the care distribution at home becomes more equal. Without equality in working life and in the economy, we never get real equality, and yet women only earn 87 kroner for every hundred kroner a man earns. That's why SV prioritises gender equality in its alternative state budget – because it's about fair distribution and opportunities for everyone, regardless of whether you're a woman or a man, because we can't create a society for the many, not just for the few, without having one half of the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1024	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1 part 1. We will then proceed to the debate on Part 2, which concerns the 3 framework area. The President refers to the debate previously adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1033	I will also be allowed to thank the Cooperation Committee for this part of the budget. We have come well into port and written into many good remarks. The cultural budget in 2019 is over 15 billion. kr, that is a considerable sum. We have an increase in the cultural budget of 830 million. kr – there is an increase of 5,8 pst. The cultural budget facilitates diversity and breadth, and good support schemes for volunteering are being put into place. Priority is given to languages, literature and libraries, and a whole 18 new projects for cultural buildings and museums are being launched. The initiatives underpin the government's idea of cultural life and civil society as a fundamental prerequisite for an open, democratic society. Culture shall be free, with personal commitment and volunteering as the basis — a cultural life that includes all, both in districts and in cities. We must have good support schemes for volunteering, and therefore the government is also increasing the VAT compensation. It is gratifying that the negotiations with the Christian People’s Party brought yet another fine addition. It's now at 184 million. kr. It's a strong promise, and it's a recognition that we're going to add volunteer and sport well over 1.5 billion. kr in 2019. It's very happy that it's set of 20 million. to actions and projects in the cultural field aimed at increasing inclusion in society, to stimulate diversity, and to combat poverty and increase the accessibility of culture for all. I think it is extra nice that the Bragettheatre in Buskerud is one of the theatres that benefit from just such means. Language is an important part of cultural heritage and a prerequisite for participation in democracy. 2019 is a national accounting year and Norway shall be the main country under the Frankfurt Book Fair. The 30 million. kr set aside to implement that project will be incredibly important for us to strengthen the export, profiling and dissemination of Norwegian culture and literature. We are also pleased that we have had a 10 million children and young people’s literature investment. kr. Music and performing arts institutions around the country are an important foundation for professional cultural life. They shall have predictable conditions that promote artistic development and quality. In the 2019 State Budget, the contribution to the scenes Theatre Garagen, Theaterhuset Avant Garden and Black Box has been increased in order for these scenes to create and show art to a wider audience. In the music field, the grants to the Nordnorsk Opera and Symphony Orchestra, Opera Rogaland and Edvard Grieg Kor have been increased by a total of 6 million. kr. This is where we are talking about a district profile in the budget. We're going to meet an exciting cultural year. In the summer of 2019, the National Museum will launch its new building on the West Railway in Oslo. The grant to the National Museum has increased by 186 million. NOK to cover rent and increased costs for museum operations in 2019. I hope and believe it can be a real magnet for tourists to Norway, and not least that it will also lure us Norwegians into the museum. Norway delivers high-quality film and series productions. We are still bringing home new international prizes. The state budget for 2019 increases the appropriation for films by 50 million. kr. We strengthen the incentive scheme for international film and series productions in Norway and increase the funding for the Film Fund. We're also increasing, with an ear tag, to computer games, which are both a growing field of interest for many, and which have not least the potential for export. The government parties have an intention to lift culture as an industry, and it is part of giving the Norwegian economy more legs to stand on. Several artists and cultural workers should be able to create their own jobs. And we have to work to exploit the potential of cultural tourism. Finally, in a year when there has been a focus on sexual harassment and metoo, which started in the culture industry in Hollywood, it is very good that the department has spent money on balancing art.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1058	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1063	The budget is an opportunity to go into detail about what the next year will look like, but also to a foot in the ground to see what the long-term trends are like. In a lot of areas, we have long-term plans that describe in detail where we want to go as a society. We have it in the defense plan. We've got it in the psych plan. We've got it for hospitalization. We have it for help. We have it in NTP, not least, where it is described in detail how many meters of asphalt, railway, bridges and airfield we are going to build. In culture, we had this before. We said we should reach 1 pst. of the State budget for culture. We followed the lap times, and in 2014 we were in place. That goal has now been abandoned, and instead it is talking about a cultural sector that is to be a magnet, which is to be exciting, international, attractive, etc. I wonder why this discrimination? No other sector, either road, psychiatry, defence or anything else, would be found in just being mentioned in good words – instead of concrete, long-term objectives that can be measured in each budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1070	I thank you for the question. I don't know if I got it completely, but at least what I want to say is that we have now received a cultural message, and that cultural message will show the way in many areas of culture. The message has also notified us that, among other things: to look at the museums in particular, and we also get a message about the museums. Then I would remind you that we have actually increased the budgets of culture. We've been in a period when we've had an oil crisis, and then all the sectors of society had to cut down, just to turn the activity into the West. So I do not agree with the somewhat gloomy picture that the representative is drawing. I think we've come up to the level we're going to be, and this is one budget. There will be more budgets after this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1077	The government's draft budget shows a cut in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' post for 15 million international cultural promotion. kr. We have reversed that in the Central Party, because we believe that Norwegian culture is currently experiencing a momentum internationally, and we know that embassies around the world are ready to contribute to raising Norwegian culture further, which both the representative of the Right and the rest of the Committee learned a lot about when we were on a study trip in the United States. There we heard about the challenges the embassy has with cuts. We heard about how you don't get the opportunity to carry big works, even though it's very interested in it, to the United States, and we heard about how Music Norway can do a great job if they just get good enough frames. On the basis of this, the representative of the Right considers that the 15 million U.S. post was cut. kr was right?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1082	Thank you for the question. The internationalisation of Norwegian art is very important. We very much agree on that. So I would point out that this year there are three priorities that have been included in the budget. It is the great book fair in Frankfurt, where Norway is the main country. We have the film festival in Berlin, and we also have the jazz fair in Bremen. Here it's about profiling us at the big fairs. Now it's Europe. We were on our way to the United States, and then it has to be a priority. We now see, among other things: That the United States is coming to Europe, just to see. Then there's an opportunity to show Norwegian art, and then we'll see what the government's doing next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1089	One of the ideological achievements of cultural policy on the right is the gift-enhancing system. It's been for five years now, and we can see that of all the funds that have come over that scheme over the last five years, only 5 have pst. Go to our three northernmost counties, and the largest institutions mark the top of the list of those who get the most. Therefore, in this budgetary procedure SV has proposed that the system should at least be evaluated, but it chooses the right to vote, one should not have knowledge of that. Does the Right mean that only 5 pst. goes to the northernmost states, and that the fraction of the money goes to the largest institutions, is fair and not something you should evaluate, look at and get some knowledge about?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1094	We believe the gift-enhancing system is important, precisely because it mobilises private individuals to also give to art and culture, that it is not just sport that traditionally gets what can be called "sponsoring" from private people. I think it's important. I think the representative raises a question – I think it is worrying that there are few in the northernmost states. There we have to do a job, just to get more activity into it. But it's not just the big institutions that get funds. I'm glad that the West Fossen Art Laboratory, which another representative didn't have much to do with it, was at least very happy to get gift enhancements, and several other institutions, among others. Jewish museum in Trondheim, got this. There are small institutions, which are very happy to get these funds. So that's what we want to maintain.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1101	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1106	The Workers' Party has ambitious objectives for Culture-Norway – from voluntary cultural life with young children who barely manage to keep their block flutes properly, to the professional who keeps the highest in quality, and all that we find between them. We presented a proposal for a new cultural promise last August – the fourth in the sequence from our side – with a concrete plan to achieve our cultural goals, once again stating that it is natural for us to use 1 pst. of the State budget for cultural purposes. With the alternative state budget we are discussing today, we show that we are on those goals. And we're on track. We're spending over 550 million. kr more than the government of culture. We in the Labour Party are concerned that differences in Norway are increasing. In area by area, differences between people are increasing, and new classes are emerging under this government. We know very much that in the cultural field too there are great differences between people, who have access to, afford and opportunity to see and experience art and culture. For us, it is important to reduce the differences in the ability of people to experience culture. We'll build down thresholds for participation. Therefore, schemes such as: The cultural school bag, the cultural walking stick, the cultural nesting pack, the cultural card for young people, the fact that the libraries are open meeting places, or the fact that the museums sometimes have free entrances, extremely important to us. That's why it's also important for us to continue to strengthen the so-called cultural core wall and the universal arrangements that just give more access to art and culture, which means that at least everyone gets a taste, and that people get to experience what they might not know they would have – experiences that might open up the eyes of a new world that creates commitment and good memories: experiences that bind us together as a people. Another key pillar of our cultural policy, including the budget, is the artistic economy. For us, it has always been central to fight against people being put on a stand in the workplace. A salary to live off and a safe framework to work in is important to us. On the other hand, there are too many people who experience insecurity in the workplace, who have an involuntary unemployment relationship with the labour market, who are underpaid or stretching the work far beyond what is permitted by the law. Many artists and cultural workers work under conditions that we others would not have accepted. They have fewer social rights than us, even though they work more. The artist economy is therefore important for the Workers' Party. We want to strengthen the established arrangements and establish new ones, as we did in the opposition, together with the Left, in the last period, got a majority of the art assistant system. In this budget, we spend a total of over 80 million. kr more than the government directly to the artist economy: on 100 new scholarships, that the exhibition fees scheme – i.e. simply payment for the job you do with an exhibition – should no longer be a test scheme, but a fixed scheme, and that you should actually be paid for that work. It was just supposed to be missing. In addition, all of these 550 million. kr we spend on culture throughout the country, is money that creates jobs for artists and cultural workers. If you invest in culture, you create work as well. That's what culture is. We follow up on the 2015 film deal in our budget. The government hasn't. Despite the increase in the budget this year, there is a huge fall in film production. The film regions have not been strengthened, as Stortinget asked the government to do in 2015. We're doing all of this in our budget. We're going to spend 80 million dollars. kr more on film and Norwegian TV-drama production. In addition, we want a rule-driven incentive scheme. That's what the industry itself is asking for, not for it to increase. In addition, we believe that there is an urgent need to introduce co-financing responsibility for the current actors. We're listening to the movie and TV drama industry. We also follow up on cultural life's call for more gender equality measures. It was time for balance art to enter the state budget, but when they first did, they could have got more money to travel with. One and a half million. kr is not much. We're proposing $10 million. kr, so that balance art can really get a turn on things. This year again, we see that the government is doing the subtle trick of taking money and things out of the state budget and overturning them on the tippers. The greatest effort this government can make in the field of culture is the gift-enhancing scheme. You spend 143 million in the year. kr on a scheme that only achieves that those who are already good at attracting sponsors get more to walk with. It is a cross-section of the undemocratic system. It goes to the major institutions in central struts, while, for example: Finnmark gets nothing, and Hedmark, as I represent, gets a quarter of a million. The budget has a district profile, said the representative Ørmen Johnsen, who spoke before me. But it's completely wrong, and the gift enhancement system is a good proof of that. We prioritise culture across the country, in the city and in the countryside, and we also propose the introduction of a national cultural map for young people. We're waiting for a media message. It has been many years since the media diversity committee presented its NOU, and the traditional media and media houses are experiencing a crisis. Not only does the government leave the matter and the follow-up to the media diversity committee's report waiting, one chooses at this time, with these challenges, not to price the press support. It also means real cut here. And this year, as in the last five years, the Christian People's Party had to put its political weight in correcting this in budgetary negotiations. Honor be the Christian People's Party, but this whole dance is an unworthy game and a very bad signal to the media industry. A volunteer message was submitted on Friday. It says very well about the importance of volunteering and its role in Norwegian society. However, most of the measures that volunteering has long asked for are not provided, or they are pushed forward in time. We see no need to push at anything, and in the last year we have proposed concrete simplifications for volunteering, better register systems, a stepping-up plan for the VAT compensation system, etc. In this budget, we are also strengthening volunteering. One major effort we prioritise is money to set up several equipment centres. We're going to use over 100 million. kr, and it's an all-genuine arrangement. It's kind of a cheeky egg of a solution. First of all, it means that people who can't afford to buy expensive leisure equipment can borrow it for free. Thus, no one – especially children – needs to stand alone and not participate due to a lack of equipment. This is important in the time we're in now, because we know that the differences between those that have the most, and those that have the least, are increasing. That means that children stay standing alone where others can figure things out, and we can't have it that way. But that also means that with more equipment centres, even those who actually can afford not buy all this expensive equipment that is rarely used and that fills up lockers and stalls. Why should everyone own a pair of skis when you might use them a couple times every winter? Several equipment centres such as BUA mean inclusion, which means environment, and it is consumption-reducing. You don't have to figure out if that's good. In the voluntary service, the government talks about the need for these types of schemes. Yes, there is a need for these types of schemes, and so today we have the opportunity to support the Workers' Party's proposal to spend 100 million. kr to get more of these centres. But the government parties are against it. It's just an example that there's not a good word in a message or a party speech that matters. That's what you actually prioritize and do in politics, which creates change and shows what you stand for.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1135	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1140	I think it is very good that we get a discussion about the gift enhancement scheme. It has been mentioned by both the undersigned and the representative of Trettebergstien. The gift enhancement system is available to mobilize all the good forces, so you can give an extra puff. It's the business we're interested in getting in and being able to use on culture. These are not the big institutions for which we have lists. I wonder how the Workers' Party will mobilise the private to turn funds, for example, from sport to cultural institutions. Is there a scheme other than the gift-enhancing scheme that the Workers' Party will have, or will they not have that scheme at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1147	The working party is not for the gift-enhancing scheme, for two simple reasons: Over the years it has existed, it has shown — and this has also been confirmed by reports and studies — that it does not stimulate private donors to give to cultural life, precisely because there is no incentive there for the private donor. It's the institutions that get the money. Private donors in the sponsor market also confirm this. They say it's a scheme that's not relevant. Secondly, as I said in my post, the institutions in the central strata are getting this. It also shows the distribution of last year's money. Hedmark and Finnmark get almost nothing, while Oslo and Akershus run away with the money. This is undemocratic use of taxpayers' money. In addition — as if this were not enough — the government has taken it out of the state budget and transferred it to the drugs. That's not the proper use of tipping agents, we mean.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1156	In the budget configuration, the majority parties – the Right, the Advance Party, the Centre Party, the Left and the Christian People’s Party – advocate further cohesion between festivals that are comparable in size and quality in terms of grants. An evaluation and an assessment thereof should be carried out. I'm thinking in particular about e.g. Moldejazz, 10 million. kr more than a comparable festival as Kongsberg Jazzfestival. They're pretty similar in size and activity. The Labour Party has chosen to stand out of this by referring to its own budget proposal, but I would like to have an answer as to why the Workers' Party, which has many prominent politicians who over the years have been very concerned with festivals and festival life, does not want to carry out such an evaluation to see if these differences between comparable festivals can be balanced.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1163	Thank you for the question. I recommend that the representative, Wold, read the comment that is under that note, that is, the Workers' Party's comment on our festival policy. I understand that the majority parties see the need for an evaluation of festival support, because this government has in many ways weakened festival support by putting down the node scheme and putting all the festivals into the same scheme. There have been several festivals about the lean leg as the festival support is now. I understand that they want to look at that system, but this is a result of their own policies. The working party has a different, complete line. We also spend more money on festival support, and we wouldn't have taken it easy to put down the node scheme without creating a better and comprehensive arrangement like strengthened and not weakened Festival Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1170	I am a little happy to read a lot of what the Workers' Party chooses to add to its alternative budget, precisely because it pays tribute to a lot of the work that the Left in the Government has done. For the most part, it's just additions to bets that left hand already have. But something that has emerged here, and that we disagree a little bit about, is the gift-enhancing system, which the representative Ørmen Johnsen also spoke about. For me and the Left, it is important to make sure that Norwegian art and cultural life has more legs to stand on, that we ensure that both young and established artists are able to get income, and that they have institutions that are big and good, and with good economy. Therefore, we need to have mechanisms to motivate and stimulate private participation and participation. But the Workers' Party therefore chooses to cut this scheme and does not want to launch any alternatives to getting private capital. Why not?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1177	There's no one who's against getting private money into cultural life. The question is how to work for it to happen. The gift-enhancing scheme does not motivate a single donor to give anything to the cultural sector, because it is the institutions that benefit from it. This has been established by several sponsors, and after report reports have also shown that the gift-enhancing scheme does not achieve the objectives that the representative here says it should achieve. We think that the government, for example. should maintain support for Norwegian public development on the state budget. It is an organisation that has been set up, an organisation that is just a place where the institutions learn from each other to increase the audience base and the number of audiences, but there was no place for the government on the government budget – one hundred and a thousand dollars to an umbrella organisation that contributes more experience and more development in how to obtain private funds than the gift-enhancing system has ever done.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1184	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1189	For the Progress Party, culture is a concept that expresses the values and qualities that individuals attribute to high self-esteem. For us, it is important to point out that what is good culture for one does not necessarily have to be good culture for another. This is what it should be, and it must be, and it is what contributes to diversity in terms of expression and form in the cultural sector. Even more importantly, culture should be free and highly independent of political governance. The day when a political majority will decide or possibly put its profile on what to see, hear and not least feel of different cultural expressions, democracy has lost – and so on, culture. Having a free and independent cultural life does not mean that all forms of culture are to be funded by the state, rather on the contrary. Only when the different sectors of cultural life dare to see new ways of thinking about alternative funding, and not least finding other forms of financial support than public funding, will I claim that we have a free cultural life. For the Progress Party, it has always been important that we should never forget that the money that comes from the public is actually the tax money of the Norwegian people. Of course, it's going to keep getting money from the public to the culture, of course, but this money belongs to most people. And when money's going to be spent on culture, we have to make sure that they also benefit people the most. It is not possible to undermine the fact that for the Progress Party, one of the most important things in cultural policy is to take care of our traditions – and our cultural treasures. Therefore, it is very important for us that these are properly secured, both in terms of conservation and in terms of safety. Norway's population should know that our cultural taxes are well taken care of for the posterity. It's a big challenge because it takes a lot of us, and because it takes a lot of money. The cultural field is important for the entire population of Norway, but it is also important for cultural life. Ensuring a holistic approach to bet and using relevant forces in the cultural field, where voluntary children’s and youth organisations, orchestras, the artistic assistant system, corps, choirs – yes, almost the whole cultural life – can continue to develop within their frameworks is important. Cultural life itself has great resources and invaluable experience. So to the voluntary teams and organizations: the Progress Party has always promised what the volunteer teams and organizations do. The volunteers capture the latitude activities and not least the work being done for children and young people. There are an incredible number of people who benefit from the offers made by voluntary teams and organisations, both in terms of the cultural front with corps, theatres and music schools, and, not least, in terms of sport. The Progress Party wishes to facilitate the development of viable and creative cultural activities. We are very pleased that the incentive scheme for films is doing this. For someone who's a fan of James Bond, it's going to be exciting to watch if the next Bond movie is filmed here to land. Such film recordings produce economic ring-fences, empowerment for the film and television environments and potentially good advertising for the tourism industry. We are facing several major issues in the field of culture. It is therefore natural that the budgetary procedure should be somewhat influenced. To next year, we will address the cultural message, the media message and the volunteer message. These are big messages that will plot the direction of many years in the future. I'm glad that all of these fields are now getting a good edge of Progress Party, by being involved and influencing the preparation of these messages. In conclusion, my good colleague, Lundtigen, greeted Buskerud in his contribution. It falls naturally for me to do as well. The support for the Vikersund Hoppsenter Foundation, which many politicians have been trying to get in place for many years, is very happy to see now come into place, first through the government's proposal and then through a unanimous agreement in the committee. It's the world's largest ski slope in a small town that has great challenges to deal with the demands of the International Ski Association and to get the wheels to walk around, so it's a very positive handshake, which the organizer appreciates. The same applies to the support for the bob and ake track at Lillehammer, which comes in the same round. There are happy appropriations, which many today may be happy to have been involved in getting through. We're gonna be proud of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1212	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1217	‘[D] if public spending money on cultural activities is the most important thing for people to benefit from.’ The third largest cultural effort of this government is to strengthen the gift-enhancing mechanism — a system of biased distribution and centralisation. Most of the funds go to the central areas. Among other things, East-Agder gets almost nothing, and Finnmark gets zero – not one penny. The propulsion party has the quote I read at the beginning of the article, in its program. They really believe that culture should not be a state system. But when they are now behind a cultural budget, how can they defend such a bias in the gift-enhancing system? Does the concern for the rich uncles of the right government go ahead of the Promoting Party's wish that the cultural money go to the people most?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1227	One can set up support in many different ways. The gift-enhancing system is a very good system for large cultural institutions, for example: in the east and other central areas. It also hits people the most, because many of these institutions have very large numbers of visits, and it makes that when they get private sponsors to back up during operations, they can develop their operations even more and so on to hit even more of the guests and customers who are coming. That's enough to mention, for example. The leafy work at Modum, one of the country's most visited cultural institutions, has benefited from the gift-enhancing scheme in several cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1232	There's been a lot of talk about metoo in the hall today. As we know, the metoo campaign started in the cultural sector, in the film industry, and triggered a movement that really showed what major structural problems we have in society with sexual harassment. Since this emerged in the cultural sector, other industries followed, yet the cultural industry is again standing as perhaps one of the most challenging industries in sexual harassment. I wonder whether the representative, Mr Wold, from the Party of Advancement, thinks that supporting balance sheet art and measures there are important and good. I also wonder whether the representative Wold believes that we should politically do even more to end sexual harassment and support up the metoo.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1239	Sexual harassment is a very big social problem, not just in the cultural sector. That's what the metoo campaign showed. This happens on all fronts of society. It happens in all walks of life, it happens in sport, it happens in culture, it happens in business – this is something we obviously have to focus on. Although the most powerful metoo wave may have given up, this problem is still out there and among us all. In the field of balance sheet art, one of many measures is supported and is certainly a great measure that will benefit from the resources they receive. There will be a discussion about whether they get enough, or whether they should get more – in line with many others who through public funds will of course be able to contribute to raising awareness of methotrexate in order to reduce sexual harassment as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1246	The Progress Party likes to present itself as a defender of the Norwegian cultural heritage, and the representative Wold also mentioned our cultural taxes in his contribution. But a massive disappointment to cultural life in this budget is how the government lets some of our main national cultural heritage rot. The Viking ships may be some of what we're most proud of here in the country, and something we're internationally known for. For this reason, international reactions have also caused the government to let the Viking ships fall due because they do not want to grant a rescue package of about seven million. kr to get them secured. The members of the Family and Culture Committee are responsible for the cultural heritage. Does the representative of the Progress Party believe that letting Viking ships rot is the sound management of our national cultural heritage?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1253	It's a little bit of an attack on the question. I understand the question, but I don't think these ships rot. They are certainly under proper supervision, but as so many other things in the Norwegian cultural sector, they need more capital to get even better follow-up and security for the future. This also applies in other areas. These include church buildings, museums, the National Museum, the National Library — all of which are capital-intensive areas and for which it is important that we jointly fence and manage to find funds. Then I have to be allowed to say, since SV does not tend to have any very big problems finding funds for anything in these budgets, that I would think they had managed to solve the situation with the Viking ships in a dialogue with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1260	The cord shift is over. Before returning to the ordinary list of speakers, the chairman of the committee, Kristin Ørmen Johnsen, shall speak.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1267	On a case in point, there were a few words in the proposal that I made in part 1 of the debate. For the sake of order, I'm going to read it so that it gets right. It concerns proposal No. 18 and it is promoted by those who are signed on behalf of the Right Party, the Party of Advancement, the Left Party, and the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Swedish Government agrees that the Ministry of Culture will be able to offer new commitments for interest compensation to church buildings in 2019, corresponding to an investment framework of 1 billion. crowns over cap. 342 Cemetery and burial grounds, entry 60 Interest compensation – church building.’ The two words omitted in the previous version of the proposal were ‘to church buildings’. In doing so, I have promoted the correct version of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1279	The representative Kristin Örmen Johnsen has taken up the proposal – in a rich form – that she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1284	The centre party will work for a varied and rich cultural offer. Our alternative cultural budget will contribute to a real boost for cultural memories, for the Church, for volunteering and art and cultural organisations, and to ensuring media pluralism. Cultural memories and cultural environments are important parts of what we call society's collective memory, our national heritage, and they contribute to knowledge, narrative and experience. In 2005, the Stortinget adopted ambitious national targets on behalf of the cultural memory field, including: a strong stepping up of funding for cultural memory protection by 2020. Those measures were followed up by the red-green government. But for the last five years, the sitting government has rather chosen to brake. That is why we are now in a situation where we cannot achieve the 2020 objectives. The Centre Party has repeatedly pointed out this in its budgetary discussions in recent years, and for 2019 too, the government is providing a weak budget for cultural memories. In our alternative budget proposal for 2019, the Central Party therefore proposes an absolutely necessary strengthening of its efforts to preserve our cultural heritage, with 138 million. kr. We'll get it for you, among other things. means of cultural memory it really is urgent, such as the Viking ships, the Heavy Water Scratch, the Telemark Canal and, in particular, all our rotting and moisturizing churches, among others. from the Middle Ages. The contents of our church buildings also need to be suspended in the Central Party, since the government's budget proposal raised a cut of 46 million. kr. We in the Central Party believe that the People's Church doesn't need a big cut in the transformation phase they're in now, and we're going to reverse that cut in our alternative budget. The media industry is also in a critical transformation phase a day. Extensive digitisation and automation processes are demanding, with the development of new business models and high income losses especially for international actors such as Facebook and Google. The integrity and position of the news media that democratically bear are in addition under pressure after the emergence of fake news and alternative media. The central party believes that it is a fundamental democratic value that citizens have access to different views and opinions in the media landscape. Norwegian, serious news media therefore need to be ensured well, so that they are still able to produce journalism and fulfil their important role in society, for the benefit of the social debate and democracy. The press support has been a well-functioning and necessary mechanism to ensure media pluralism in the newspaper market, and the 2017 media diversity committee's investigation pointed out that the state must take greater responsibility in the process of conversion. The government, through its draft budget, is showing little or no willingness to assist the media in the difficult situation they face. kr. Culture is incredibly important to society. Art, cultural institutions, local, national and international cultural development and cultural experience – all these contribute differently to public exchange and formation. Culture defines us, creates cohesion, is the pillar of our community, and it shows the way for the future we want. The market alone cannot produce a varied flora of cultural institutions and a diversity of cultural activities and expressions. The Central Party therefore believes that the public must pursue an active cultural policy that will enable the whole population, throughout the country, to participate in and experience art and culture. In our alternative budget for 2019, we have a total of 4 billion. kr more to route to municipalities and county councils, which we know will significantly strengthen cultural life, and we'll spend over 0.5 billion. to reduce, among other things, the low rate of VAT. cultural and travel experiences, from 12 pst. to 10 pst. In addition, we have a stake in a number of concrete cultural elements in our alternative budget, such as 18.5 million. kr extra to Kulturfondet, 10 mill. kr extra to the music equipment system, the reversal of the cut in the U.S.'s cultural promotion appropriations and 20 million. kr extra for different cultural buildings, and we are going – as usual – on with solid contributions to volunteering, with 236 million. in addition to the government budget. We're proud to call ourselves the volunteer party, and we show it in action, not just in words, by increasing the sum set aside for VAT compensation for voluntary teams and associations of 144 million. kr. The centre party is clear: the state should not serve the good of people. We want even more for this beautiful arrangement that all parties are talking about. Later today, we are going to discuss our proposal on the rightful establishment of this scheme. Then we'll see how it stands in warm words versus action. I look forward to that and to the continuation of this budget debate, and I will address the proposals that the Central Party has with the SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1305	The representative of Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1312	The centre party is often very critical of the government's policy, in which we impose more efficiency on the public sector. On the other hand, those who read the Central Party's alternative budget for 2019 will quickly see that this criticism does not just hit us. On the party's websites we read that they want a trust reform in the public sector. It also says: «The bureaucracy must be tamed and the resources must be directed to the place where actual service production is carried out.» The interesting thing is to see how this timing takes place in their budget proposals. They call it reducing bureaucracy. The Culture Council is cut by 18.3 million. kr, the project Cultural and creative industry is cut by 21 million. SEK, contribution to the EU programme for culture will be cut by 20 million. SEK and the Norwegian Church with 10.6 million. kr – to mention some lines. How does the representative think these cuts contribute to increased cultural production?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1325	I thank you for the question. We've now fought 4 billion. kr to counties and municipalities. That's where the best development of culture is going on. For example: food-based culture, we think it is very good, but nothing is better than to give the county municipalities well with funds for regional development, in which the government has cut and cut. We are against the fact that government agencies still have a crazy practice of consulting. The Riksrevision recently showed this in a report. We see that there is a great and good need to streamline management, and we want to re-prioritize to the first line. We have done so in some of the cases mentioned by the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1330	It's been a while since DAB was introduced. The centre party has always been an avid champion of DAB and the phase-out of FM. It is in this room only the Progress Party that has been opposed by the DAB and wanted to skip the DAB technology, pending the next technological progress. The centre party shall have in order that they now try to take a little ownership of this, by promoting a Document 8 proposal that will be considered in due course. The question concerns, inter alia: allowing FM to continue to live, so that the local radios may also operate beyond 2021, which is the time limit set. I regret that the Central Party has not given support to the Progress Party in this matter in the past, but how does the Central Party approach this in the future, in the light of the proposal the representative has promoted?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1337	Thank you for the question. This is a matter I've been involved in, and as the Center Party has engaged in the last few years, especially as it approached the turn-off date. Then the Central Party made a proposal to postpone it, because it turned out to be a lot of signals that this was not so clever. I must personally say all honor to the Advancement Party, who clearly understood it, unlike the rest of the Storting. Now, once again, we've turned off the FM network. We've wanted to reopen it, but we've also gone in to create the DAB network. The best thing was the situation we had before the shutdown, when we had both DAB channels and FM. Then the population really had a lot of good stuff to listen to, and the industry grew. But the local radios that are now broadcasting on FM finally have an opportunity to grow because people prefer to use FM. With regard to the proposal we have made, we are going to be on the right track, probably together with the Progress Party, to give local radios the chance to live on FM by 2031, at least.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1344	The representative of the Central Party is raising many measures that they want to spend a lot of money on. The money is taken from the representative much from the reduction in bureaucracy, to which the representative from the Right also referred. There's a lot that can be said about it, but there are especially two cuts I'm surprised at, among other things. in the case of the Council of Culture. This cut will just lead to, among other things, The Offices of the Cultural Council in the districts could be weakened. Then it's the Archives. The centre party justifies the fact that resources have to be channelled to the first line, but there has to be a misunderstanding, because the Arkivsverket is just a first line organisation. They shall receive, maintain and disseminate archives. At the same time, the Centre Party has proposed that an evaluation of the Swedish Archives Agency be carried out – it will also require funds, in which the Centre Party is now cutting. Does the Center Party think this is a reasonable reduction in bureaucracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1351	Thank you for the question. For the Central Party, it is incredibly important to re-disposal the funds in this budget. It's out-of-sector, we're going to make a good, balanced budget. We want more money for the municipalities and county councils, and we want less tax pressure, so we make sure there's a billion less in tax pressure. That means that we have had to give a good deal of priority. When it comes to the cuts in the Culture Council, we think it is right, especially since we have added the same sum – perhaps a little more – to the Culture Fund. As far as the Swedish Archives Agency is concerned, we have understood that it will be properly cut.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1356	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1361	Art and culture are fundamental, important benefits for all people and for society. Without this, we lose meaning, without free art, we lose an important part of our democracy, because art is expressions that build bridges between us, and that build societies, it challenges us and conveys ideas. It gives art and culture an inalienable self-esteem. That's why it's worth prioritizing culture, even without counting on all the positive consequences that come in addition. So we can't put a price tag on the culture. On the other hand, we have to appreciate culture. These include: to choose to give political priority to cultural life through strong community funding to facilitate the cultural life that we have. Right now, it's especially important because we're living in a time when democracy is under pressure, especially from authoritarian right-wing populistic forces. Then it is essential to fence the freedom and independence of art and cultural life. Without good funding from the community, through strong professional management, free art and cultural life are vulnerable. It is subject to the arbitrary nature of a market, to the taste of private benefactors and mesengers and to commercial power. We need to prioritise culture to let everyone take part in cultural life, regardless of wallet and address, so not just a small part of the population get the pleasure of the good cultural experiences. It has been an important part of the cultural policy of the labour movement for hundreds of years to ensure that both workers and diversity are represented in the art through the wide recruitment of cultural schools and corps, for example, but also that everyone should have access as an audience – in the libraries, making both knowledge and culture available to everyone, at the free concert at home in Sarpsborg, which allowed the young people to go to a concert they had not otherwise received from the family. We must also give priority to culture because it is about supporting a rich and varied cultural life, with both the great commercial successes and the narrower expressions. Both parts are important, and without strong support from the community, cultural life will become poorer and lose quality. Therefore, SV's goal is not to use 1 pst. of the State budget only a fine figure. It's about art freedom and independence, it's about art and culture being accessible to everyone, and it's about quality and diversity in cultural life. In our alternative budget, we propose 1 billion. kr extra for cultural purposes, in its width in all frames, nearly 700 million. kr only in the budget of the Ministry of Culture. SV actually prioritises culture the highest of all the parties on the Stortinget in our budget, and I'm very proud of that. It makes it possible to propose a massive increase to the Cultural Council of 125 million. kr extra – it would have been the lift of the time for the free space. That makes it possible for us to invest 85 million. kr more in those who create and present the art, because we do not get a rich and varied cultural life in the future unless the performers are able to bet on the art, 100 new scholarships, exhibition fees for the visual artists, the creation of a musical alliance according to the model of the acting and dancing alliance for more permanent and secure employment, for the security of working life and for the independence of the artists and cultural workers. It will be possible to turn the fifth year of real cut for our orchestras and theatres – the supports of professional cultural life that in recent years have received a total of 70 million. NOK too little to cover the increase in wages and prices. These are just some of the opportunities we get by appreciating culture and prioritizing cultural life as high as SV does. This is not a surrender policy, but on the contrary – not only because SV believes culture is important, but to make art and culture as free and independent as possible for the good of democracy, to have a rich and varied cultural life with the highest quality, and to create a cultural life that is for the many and not just for the few with money in the big cities. With that, I'll take up SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1380	The representative Freddy André Supreme Court has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1387	The representative from SV often says that the government has a policy for the few and not for the many, and argues with funds for all good actions. But how will SV facilitate business to create values that can be used by the community?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1392	Thank you for a good and big question. I thought maybe I'd try to answer within the framework we're discussing now, and look at how it really dries, and how the crowns we give from community to cultural life lead to a whole stream of jobs and incomes. We know that one penny for cultural life will at least give back two to three dollars. So, for example, we're reaching. selects a priority of 125 million. More to the Norwegian Cultural Fund, we know that it will lead to an external cultural life in the free field around the country. This enables us to give more priority to, for example, money. The film festivals, for game production, which are also part of what we will live on in the future, the creative industries. It's about getting a lot out of the heads that we're giving, and we're doing that in the cultural sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1397	In the post that the representative of the Supreme Court held, he spoke very widely about culture, and now he is talking about culture as a business. But is the freedom and independence of art about the state financing of all culture, or is it also important to add to the self-employment of the cultural industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1403	It's an interesting principle question, because no one is against obtaining private funding for cultural life. On the other hand, the SV is sceptical about the developments we have seen in the past, where public and community should take less responsibility, such as: are announced in the Culture Communication, and one opens up more commercial, private power. Then we are left in a situation like this. The gift-enhancing system is a good example of the weakening of democratic cultural policies, which have some aims of providing good cultural experiences to everyone throughout the country. Therefore, SV believes that we have to invest in the institutions, allocate 60 million. kr more, as we do, bet on the Culture Fund, as we do, by 125 million. kr more, because it will give it the security at the bottom of cultural life to be free and independent.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1410	With the Progress Party in government, we have gone beyond the red-green long tradition of wanting to override cultural and volunteer organisations receiving public support. The Progress Party believes that voluntary teams and associations themselves know best how to use the money for the association, which way you want to spend the money. That is, the Progress Party believes in volunteering. My question is: does SV want a state in which the state overrides the voluntary sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1415	The answer to that is quite obviously no. On the contrary, SV is very concerned about increasing the funds available for voluntary activities that go beyond the free resources. For example, the VAT compensation scheme is important in this way. It's more of a fair compensation to pay back something public takes away from volunteering, but nevertheless it's an example of giving more in free money to volunteering, so that volunteering can just identify what they want to work with, and what they want to spend money on. Today, volunteering is affected by something called project tyranny, where you have to apply for projects, you have to document a lot, you have to align with the arrangements that exist, while SV – in contrast – is committed to increasing the free resources. So it's completely in line with SV's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1420	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1425	It's been a good cultural harvest. The left has delivered its first budget to the government, and as manager of Left's cultural policy at Stortinget, I must say that I am proud. The cultural budget has been increased by 4.5 pst. from last year, and we get an incredible amount of money left for the investments that are made. The Minister for Culture, with the budget and the communication of culture, has been bubbling the sky over the sector that we needed. She has shown that culture is not the makeup that will make a budget look a little better, but is part of the substance of democracy, a pillar of democracy. This budget shows what liberal cultural policy is. In the centre of everything is the expression and freedom of expression, the right of the individual to express himself in his own way through play, drama, poetry, dance, photography, painting, sculpture or anything else. Art and culture are not adorned. Although it may be beautiful, nice, and fun, it is serious. Art is counterpower and social criticism, it reflects us and challenges us as societies and individuals. Culture is the community and our history, both the one we carry with us, and the one we create together – that is, democracy and social glue. For the Left, it is important that art should be free, not politically instructed and detailed. We are committed to creating predictable frameworks around it and to giving artists good conditions to operate with their art. Forwards must be provided with many messages to take care of a single field. It has to be cleared up in legislation, simplified and facilitated for a living and diverse cultural life throughout Norway, and we are well on the move. The budget grants money to a backbone of cultural buildings that extends throughout the country, from the art silo in Kristiansand in the south to the Vadsø museum in the far north. In 2019, the construction of almost 20 new, different cultural buildings begins. We're doing this because we're betting on width, we're betting on quality, and we're betting on offers where people live. Art and culture shall be created and practiced on their own premises, and it will always have local peculiarities. Nevertheless, we must be able to have the goal of offering a quality offer to the public. You don't have to grow up in Oslo to have a good theater or concert experience. As the Minister of Culture often says, culture is about education. I want all children and young people to experience expressing themselves through different artistic and cultural expressions, to discover everything that exists outside the box, and to develop and find joy, mastering and challenges, to expand imagination and horizon, and to find new ways of saying their opinion and being in the world. Therefore, the threshold of culture must be low — not quality, but way in. Cultural actors must be aware that the audience of the future is in a classroom with a mobile phone, or in a nursery near them. Both industry and politicians need to think about how to attract new groups to the cultural arenas and how to get culture out to the people in new ways. These perspectives can be found in the 2019 budget. In my own town, Oslo, I am delighted to see the Oslo Philharmonic busing around to parks in those parts of the city where there are people who usually don't dress and go to a classic concert to listen to Debussy. I have great hopes for the Groruddals project of the Norwegian Theatre. Next year, they're going to play the performance based on the boxing success of Aunt Ulrike's road, in Oslo East, about where the action in the book unfolds. Now we're talking about the relevant theater and a huge example of how culture has scope and significance far beyond the so-called elites. The government's cultural budget promises voluntary action and initiatives from below. Now it will be easier to run non-governmental organisations; it will be easier to engage and help more people. The VAT compensation system has increased considerably; it is a powerful historical strengthening. It was already in the draft budget, but after the consensus and by means of the Christian People's Party, we have added even more. The total increase is over 180 million. kr. This money benefits people across the country, in different ages and with different backgrounds. The best thing about this budget is that so many benefit, and it shows that culture is strong, free and for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1444	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1449	The main scheme is not for everyone, and it is the gift-enhancing scheme. Those who receive money from the gift enhancement scheme would get the private money anyway. What is more problematic is that the system shifts the decision on what the state should spend money on, away from democratic control and over to the private donor having to find it too well to do. It's very problematic. In addition, it goes to the central strut. You're going to spend 134 million. kr on the scheme this year, while the cultural construction pot of the typing materials, of which the representative is involved, sinks. There it is for comparison just about 50 million. kr. That's what I'm saying. The money is distributed in sweets in 2017: Oslo 26 million. SEK, Akershus 16 million. SEK, Hordaland 20 million. kr, Hedmark 600 000 kr, Sogn and Fjordane 500000 kr, Nordland 800000 kr, Finnmark 0 kr. Is this what is liberal cultural policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1454	For me, it's important that we make sure that Culture Norway has more legs to stand on. It surprises me time and time again to hear that the Workers' Party does not want to come up with good arrangements that involve private donors. It is clear that we need to do something about the gift-enhancing system, among other things. we must ensure that it is marketed in all counties. There are several states that have chosen not to market it in a good way, and I think there are several things that can be done to make a system even better. So it's a myth, and that myth is that this arrangement only hits a few institutions. However, in 2017, there were 329 applications, with a total application amount of 91.5 million. NOK, so this is a scheme that is strongly wanted out, and I am absolutely sure that if the Workers' Party, instead of just wanting to remove the scheme, had helped to figure out how to make the scheme even better, we would have been able to get an even better gift enhancement scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1463	I suddenly wanted to talk about making budgets – it was a bit of a nice picture. I'm sorry, too, to use culture like this. But I'm going to stick to the copyright law and the revision we did earlier this year. In Section 26, we extended the arrangement to apply to visual and literary works as well. This means that several rightholders are subject to the scheme and are entitled to an equitable remuneration for copying for private use. Last year, 48 million were granted. kr, this year the government only proposes 1 million. kr more. Several organisations, such as TONO, Norwaco, NOPA, the music publishers, GramArt and the Composers' Association, are all concerned and consider the size of the funding insufficient in terms of compensation to all those currently covered by this scheme. Does the representative of the Left believe that the amount of funding for 2019 is sufficient to compensate these rightholders now that the scheme has been extended to both visual and literary works?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1470	As the rapporteur for this chapter, I have tried to spend some time getting involved in this system to see what the realities are. It is true, as the representative says, that several foreign rightholders can now in practice receive individual compensation through Norwaco, but the main point here is that there is no more copying than before, and therefore there is no need to increase the total compensation. Thus, the number of potential applicants for remuneration in the individual scheme has increased, but in principle the volume of copying has not increased. Therefore, it is not necessarily the case that the amount has to be increased, and we have a high level of compensation in Norway compared to other countries in the Nordic region. At the same time, the Minister of Culture has warned that she wants to look at the scheme and what the extent of copying may have a bearing on the individual scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1482	An important cultural institution that now lives with the knife on the throat is Defence Music. Over 40 pst. of all professional positions in slags and bladders in Norway are in these corps. They contribute to cultural services in places where it would not have been otherwise, and are important for, among other things, the cultural school. With this year's budget, the corps would be underfunded by 25 million. kr, and they have already had to cut twelve musical positions, which means that they can no longer play any of their most important repertoire. In the election campaign, the Left said in the media that they would fight for the defence music, and Minister of Culture Trine Skei Grande wrote on Facebook on April 26, this year: "We haven't given up the fight for the defence music." Obviously, the Left's fight in its own government is not so good, and it's a pity for these important corps. Does the representative of Almeland believe that the Left has kept its promises to save the music of Defence, or can he admit the defeat?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1489	For the Left, the music of Defense is important. We've been there, and we've been very clear about making sure that the defense's music has good appropriations, so that you can maintain the activity and the number of posts. There were changes to the Defence Music in the defense agreement a while ago. At that time, an arrangement was put in place which said that this should mainly be governed by the Ministry of Defence and their budget frameworks. The left provided in Framework 3, which we are now discussing, was to maintain and follow up that consensus and that the defence music gets the share of the budget that the Ministry of Culture is going to give. So that's where we've delivered. We'd like to join in and see how we can further provide a stable music system for the defense, and I had also hoped that, among other things. SV had been with us last year when we tried to take care of this with common comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1498	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1503	I'm going to do something as unheard of as acting like an opposition politician who's not just dissatisfied. I believe that when the cultural budget was presented, it was a cultural budget that was far more offensive than what we have actually experienced in recent years, and we have a Minister of Culture who has chosen to prioritise. Then you can agree or disagree with those priorities, but I think it should be recognised that we have both a cultural budget that has been significantly increased and that there have been some important priorities. There have been about 30 applications for cultural buildings around the country. In 2019, 18 of those applications are honoured, and I believe that they deserve recognition. I'm incredibly proud and happy that, for example. Telemark Museum and new buildings in Telemark are now finally being realized. There's something this committee has been working on, not only in this period, but also in the previous period, and now it's being realized, like many other important cultural buildings. I think it deserves recognition. Then I'm not going to say that everything is good with what was presented, because there were also some disappointments. Media policy is mentioned. I think it was a bit alarming that there was a cut in the media support. The Left and Christian People's Party has been shoulder to shoulder throughout the previous period, where, year after year, we experienced that the previous government came to the Stortinget with proposals to cut media support. The Left and Christian People's Party got it reversed every year. We did not get the pay-and-price adjustment, but we got the reverse cut. Therefore, it was a bit alarming that the government with the left suggested a cut. Now we tried in the budget negotiations to reverse the whole cut. We couldn't reverse everything, but we got to something, and I'm glad. Otherwise, I believe that what the government does about volunteering, and especially about the VAT compensation, has been positive. I am pleased that through the budgetary unit we were able to increase the VAT compensation by another 50 million. kr. But there is reason to remember that in the last period there was a unanimous decision in Stortinget that we should have a escalating plan against full VAT compensation, and even with the 184 million. kr with which this scheme is now strengthened, we are not there at all. So this work – and I just want to remind the government parties of it – must continue, and the consensus that was in the previous period must be fulfilled. In connection with the budget unit, I am therefore pleased that we received a further reinforcement in the field of museum activities. I have mentioned the Telemark Museum and new buildings there, but I am also pleased with the strengthening that was given to the Vestfold Museums. I am also pleased that the Porsgrund porcelain museum received an increase of 1 million. kr – that means a lot. It's not the big money, but it's often not the big money that roll the big load, but it means a lot even with small sums. Then I'm also glad that we once again managed to strengthen the actor and dancer alliance by 2 million. kr. This means that they can hire even more freelancers — actors, dancers — who give them a safe income. It's about taking the artist economy seriously. I am also pleased that the Oscarsborg Opera received a boost of 1.5 million. NOK, and I am looking forward to next year's Aida setup. I think it's great. Then I'm glad that the government parties agreed to fix the cut within the church. We didn't just raise the cut to 56 million. kr that was proposed, but we strengthened the church budget by another 16 million. kr. And it must be allowed from this pulpit to make a little wish. The church is good in many areas, especially within the diacony. The fact that we've strengthened the budget means that we're getting rid of performances. I hope the Norwegian Church can use some of the fresh resources to strengthen the diaconal service, because there is a need.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1522	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1527	I am also excited about part of what is being implemented in the budget, but perhaps some of what I am most pleased about, is that at least we got a comment on the Norwegian Industrial Workers' Museum' Heavy Water Scutter, which needs protection. I am very concerned that the Christian People's Party representative has spoken well and warmly about this having to go into place, but it is urgent. It must be ensured before winter 2019, so I wonder if the representative intends to work hard so that we can bring good news in the revised budget in that field.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1532	That's not all you do when it comes to lifting different projects. But the entire committee is well aware of the challenges that the Heavy Water Shell has. We were traveling in Telemark, and we were in there and saw the Heavy Water Scratch. We know that it is exposed every day. Rehabilitation is needed, and it is urgent – the representative is absolutely right. Then we have to see what you can do. I am very pleased that a unanimous committee is behind that remark. It gives hope that the whole Committee sees the need to make a relatively rapid contribution. So there's a basement that's running out every single day, and this is part of the story that I think everyone's busy is going to be able to be told to future generations as well. Therefore, money is needed quite quickly, and I hope that the Christian People's Party can also join in and contribute to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1537	I also got the hope when the representative from the Progress Party had a reply to me about our proposal for a representative on the extension of local radio concessions on the FM network. I know that the Christian People's Party has been a spokesman for local radios and has been very busy with local radios, and I just have to challenge the representative of the Christian People's Party: how does he think the Christian People's Party is now going to work to actually get the local radios they want when we are going to deal with those kinds of issues in connection with both the media announcement and the proposal of the Center Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1542	First of all, we don't have lines to each other, we have them to each other. We're friends in this committee! As regards the question asked by the representative, I am aware that the Central Party has made a proposal to postpone or extend the concession until 2031. Personally, I think that is a proposal that we should be positive about, at least an extension, because that is what we see to be needed. The local radio has an economy that will make 2021 an insurmountable bend for them to go over purely economical, and the government has not dealt financially with the local radios as I believe they should have done. So we're going to look at it more closely. There is nothing that we have taken a stand on in the Christian People's Party yet – that is what we are probably dealing with together with the media message, which we are also going to wait for. But the representative is quite right that the Christian People's Party is a hot supporter of a rich local radio environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1555	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1560	This government has submitted a cultural budget for 2019, which for the first time is over 15 billion. kr, an increase of 830 million. kr, i.e. 5.8 pst. increase. I'll start with that, sail if I think that all cultural policy is actually not money. I am happy to be a member of a government that prioritises the field of culture, but I also think it is important to bear in mind that cultural policy is governed in ways other than other policy areas, for example. that culture comes and grows from below. Motorways do not grow from below. We want a lot of different cultural expressions in Norway, but it's not like we want a lot of different types of trains running on different tracks. When we build a cultural house, we build it for people to grow. When we build hospitals, we build them to make people healthy. When we facilitate art and culture and expression, it is not our goal to spend the money as efficiently as possible for production, but we believe that all art and culture are expressions for which it is to be facilitated, and we believe that culture has its own societal building power and a democratic force in facilitating growth. Culture is the basis of our democracy, both by having the basis of freedom of expression and by facilitating tolerance, and also by being one of our main Community citizens. The policy's task is not to find it, as we do in social policy, health policy or other parts. So yes, we have prioritised cultural life, with both more money and great efforts, but we also understand that culture is built from below. We're strengthening the VAT compensation, which now reduces the shortening of voluntary organizations, and we're up to 1.5 billion. kr in 2019. It helps to lay the foundation for free culture and volunteering. And then we're concerned that culture is going to keep trying to reach out for new groups. Once we've turned off a 20 million pot of our own. This is not because we are instructing culture, but because it is an initiative that has come from culture. These are projects they have applied for, because they want to reach new groups. We're strengthening the programming scenes, precisely because it's not just supposed to be the big institutions you need to support and promise. We think there should be a variety of scenes in Norway. Similarly, we also strengthen some of the regional operas, so that they can be counterbalanced with the major operas, for example. Here. We want a broad music environment everywhere, and we want institutions everywhere. For a long time now, we have been working to increase the grant share, not only to get the work tips in place, but now we are also making sure that the long-term scholarships have similar developments. We've lifted the national cultural buildings, both by getting the last appropriations to get the National Museum in place, and by building 19 new buildings. As an old trombone from the northern part of the trombone layer, I have to admit that I am very happy that many years of fighting to get Saemien Sijte in place is finally over. 2019 is also the big book year, where we are raising book activities around the country, and we are raising children's and young people's literature in particular. When we see that reading goes down in some fields, the most important thing we can do is to make sure that children and young people read, for children and young people who read, become adults who read. We also promise language policy through 10 million. NOK extra to the dictionaries and SEK 10 million. kr extra to the Language Bank, which means that we will also have the opportunity in the future to speak any dialect to any thing. It is an important part of Norwegian language development when we see new technologies growing around us. We're increasing film support by 50 million. kr. Someone's making it sound like there's a crisis in Film-Norway. It's not. It's been a long time since there's been so much co-wind, and I think we're now moving into a record year for Norwegian film. In the last few seconds, I would like to thank the Cooperation Committee. It was the first time I experienced a budgetary process from this angle, and it wasn't as scary as I thought. I think it has been very constructive and good. Then I would like to thank the Christian People's Party for their participation in strengthening the cultural budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1582	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1587	Then I can first replicate by thanking for a good cooperation from the opposition also in the work of the Culture Committee. In the budget setting, we read: ‘In order to create room for high priority actions in the 2019 draft budget, the Ministry of Culture has proposed some re-priorities, including the liquidation of the grant to the KABB.’ Furthermore, the Minister replied to a question in Stortinget that she had moved the entire KABB task portfolio to the national library for the blind, and that the offer would be better when KABB disappeared. So the minister has now said that she will get it back in. The Labour Party has been committed to ensuring both the KABB and the Newspaper telephone for the blind, which the government of the previous budget has cut completely. The question to the Council of State is: When the Council of State has said twice to the Storting that it was so important, and now has changed its view, does that mean that she still believes the National Library is doing KABB's tasks better than KABB itself?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1603	I have noticed that the Christian People's Party got these funds back in, and I hope that we will have a good dialogue with the Christian People's Party on how to further expand this offer. I'm very concerned that we have heavy, strong language-mediating arenas for the blind and the weak. If this is the right organization for all future, I'm open to watch. There have been many budgets where this has been an item that has been discussed. So I think it's important that we see the different offers in one context, and I hope we're going to have a very good dialogue with the Christian People's Party about, which has been committed to this post -- that we make sure that the offer to those who need it is actually there. Then I think it should be reserved for all life's vision to get a good offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1610	It was an elusive answer that now there is a heavy should be on the shoulders of the Christian People's Party to ensure that the Christian blind actually get the opportunity they should have, in the view of the Workers' Party, to exercise their faith and to have access to literature in the language they understand and the language they can. The government has not thought of it, before the debate with the Christian People's Party – at least it seems in the budget when they say that it should be transferred to the National Library for the blind. For there were no leads in the budget that it was the religious literature that needed to be strengthened, or that one should preserve the portfolio of books and literature that KABB had. On the contrary, it was a strengthening for children and young people – and it is good for children and young people to have more digital instruments, but it was therefore an economic priority that the Council of State said that there were other, more important measures than that of Christian blind people to receive literature in their own language.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1615	I think it's important that people have arranged literature in the language they use, but I also think it should be possible for everyone to have the good offer. We have to be able to look at that, and I think we'll be able to find good solutions to that with the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1620	In my post, I recalled the cultural memory message from 2005, with very ambitious goals for the cultural memory field, goals that would be in place by 2020. It was followed up by the red-green, but certainly not by the blue-blue. As a result, the Centre Party and the Left joined forces during the last year’s budgetary procedure in order to set up a new and badly needed cultural memory message. Fortunately, we got a majority for that. I have now received a signal that this message is not being worked very hard. I hope that's not right, because the message is important. And even though it's not very visible in the 2019 budget that the Left is a cultural memory party, I know they want to be. That is why I wonder if the Minister for Culture, together with the Minister for Climate and Environment, will be able to ensure that we soon receive a truly ambitious message of cultural memory with – not least – very clear objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1625	I didn't get everything in my main post, and then I hoped that the representative from the Central Party would ask this question, for the total commitment to the Left and the Center Party in this field has been equal. Well, there's a new cultural memory message coming. That's what Ola Elvesuen has done. In this budget, we strengthen the Cultural Memory Fund somewhat, but what was important to us was for example. to put in place the dissemination centre at the Clemenskirken in Trondheim, which has been important to convey this part of our story. In addition, there is, in fact, a lot about the aid budget to take care of the world heritage. For the Left, the Cultural Memory Fund has been an important key to taking care of all the private cultural memories we have in Norway, making it easier for all those individuals who spend a lot of time, resources and commitment to take care of them in the future. We're going to have a new cultural memory message, and it's going to go through all of these tools and how we're going to have a plan to take care of the cultural memories that we have, which are very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1636	Cultural life has been hit by some cutbacks in recent bourgeois years, at least until now, so many were excited about the new Minister of Culture's budget. But in at least one area we still have to resolve the disappointment. The theatres and our orchestras, the very bearer of professional cultural life, are given with the Left in the Ministry of Culture a fifth year of real decline, with cuts in price and wage growth. The total underfinancing is now more than 70 million. kr. The government calls it the whole efficiency and red tape, but the result is that, for example: The harmonies in Bergen must keep five to six musical positions free. How does the Council of State feel that, for example, will the country's orchestras be more effective? Are they going to play faster, or are they going to drop a couple of instruments?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1643	I believe that everyone, me and the representative of the Supreme Court and everyone here, should constantly see if we can make things smarter. Doing things 0.5 pst. Smarter every year, I think maybe most of us can do it. Then it's not about taking musical positions, then it's about maybe advertising in a little new ways, maybe communicating in a little different ways, maybe seeing if there are other types of administrative grip – can you have ticket orders together, maybe you can see if there are other types of things you work with different institutions about and avoid spending so much money on bureaucracy? That's not like 100 pst. of the money we grant, goes to music positions only. They go to a lot of other things as well, plus that we also go in when they want new projects, such as in diversity and the fight against poverty. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1648	The President is asking you to keep your speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1653	I'm using the opportunity, since I'm still an opposition politician, to take a little line. In the context of the municipal mergers, there is now a concern about what is happening in the library field. The Library Act states that there should be a library in each municipality. The concern now is that these municipal mergers can mean that public libraries are closed, if the law is only about being one public library in each municipality. I just wonder if the Minister of Culture has thought about how to make sure that you have a library service close to where you live. This, I think, is a matter that we have to deal with in the future, both in terms of the revision of a new cultural law and possibly of the Library Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1663	We're following this very closely. There have been fewer branches, but there is no less money being spent, there are no fewer employees, nor is there any stumbling block in the use of the libraries. I have a clock faith, along with Bekkevold, on the municipal maritime administration – finding good, wise arrangements is good in the future. I think we might also have to break down some of the barriers between the different library types. I come from a municipality where people have now merged the people's library and the school library and got an incredibly much nicer, bigger and better staffed library. Looking at resources in better ways, I think the municipalities are doing much better, but this is an area we're going to monitor pretty carefully. But I think we're going to get other library forms in the future, that the access to books might also be a little bit more complex. I hope that the new forms of libraries, if they start to have branches at the mall or if they're other places where people actually are, can provide many opportunities for more library visits.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1670	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1675	I was also excited about the Minister of Culture's contributions to the cultural debate from another point of view, because I have heard her from a different angle for four years as the leader on the opposition side. There are new things in these articles, including: that this was a good budget. It was not said that time, it was now said. There is no crisis in the field of culture, because the aftermath of the great cultural promise is still there. There's a lot of work going on to make it a crisis in Norway. However, I thought it was interesting to hear the Minister of Culture's reasons for not having the same clear objectives in the cultural sector as in all other sectors. She says that in the field of culture, a variety of expressions are important; it should be facilitated for artists to have freedom, etc. That's right about all of this. That's why we politicians shouldn't go into the details of it. We do not, of course, go into the details of health care, in the road sector or in air traffic. There is a lot of discussion and international cooperation on both weak weather, mass use in concrete and tunnel projects. We leave that to professionals. Our job is to make sure they do their job well. This is similar in the field of culture as it is in the field of hospitals, roads or defence – our job is to pursue cultural policy. The challenge of the Workers' Party is why in all the world we should not have the same obligating ambitions to facilitate this field as in other areas. I think the Minister of Culture is fighting for the cultural field. I think that all the ministers of culture do that, at least we haven't had a Minister of Culture yet that doesn't. A rocked inside the government might have led to it. When the Minister of Culture goes to the Budgetary Conference, all the Councils of State are fighting for their sectors. The Minister of Defence may say that 2 psts have been promised. of the budget for defence, the Minister of Health may point to obliging health plans, the Minister of Transport may point to the fulfilment of the transport plan, and the Minister of Culture must sit down and say that a variety of expressions in the cultural sector are important. A diversity of expressions in the cultural sector is important, but it does not pass through the ports of the Ministry of Finance. As a result, fewer artists will be able to contribute to the diversity of expressions in the field of culture. Culture is important. It was at the heart of the cultural promise, which was actually born as a result of the lack of commitment of a civil government’s previous cultural announcement in 2003. A lot of people talk about culture as decoupling. No, culture is connection – connecting to people around us, to ourselves, to our history, to the world around us. It's community, it's identity, it's reflection, it's exploration, it's understanding, it's local environment, it's growth, it's good age -- it's a lot of societal things as well as the value itself. Then we must also be committed to what we are betting on. It is also an industrial activity. Many jobs are linked to cultural life or cultural life. One of the industrial sectors facing the greatest challenges right now is the media sector, for which we are also examining the budget for today. It's a huge shift, the number of journalists in Norway is falling, and the media companies are living under unsafe conditions. Then it is very disappointing that we are now again told that the media message is deferred, and that it does not come until next year. This is a sector that needs safe framework conditions, which does not need government proposals on changes and cuts – as the original budget of Trine Skei Grande meant – and which needs to know what the media policy of the future really is. I hear it is said from the department that the reason you have put it at risk is that it is natural that this comes as part of the government negotiations in the new year. I think that's a very strange reason. A voluntary message was just presented, and it is strange that it should not be part of an important government debate. My impression is that the Christian People's Party is at least as concerned with the voluntary sector as they are with media policy. So this smells more of excuses than of real reason. We need a completely different offensive media policy than the one described in the budget – we need a message, so that we can discuss the long lines, and it has to come quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1690	The most important national wealth we have is not oil, but people who go to work. A great deal is going well, with low unemployment and strong economic growth, but the Norwegian economy still needs to be transformed to facilitate more people contributing to the state budget rather than living off the state budget. I choose this entrance to put culture and volunteering into a larger context. If we are to invest in human capital to ensure sustainable well-being in the future, we must create arenas for self-realization and reflection. Art and culture are opinions with a societal capacity, and our policies in this area are based on freedom of expression and tolerance. A free society does not arise by itself, nor is it carried on by itself. We therefore need working communities and common values, such as legal certainty, freedom of expression, free media and volunteering. We shall facilitate this through a good cultural policy. Through broad mechanisms and good financial framework conditions, we lay down conditions for volunteering that ensure a diversity of volunteers. In the budget, a Joint Committee writes that the voluntary sector forms the foundation of society, and that the contribution of volunteering is invaluable, or that volunteering is the ‘mother of the welfare state’, as we write. This should be taken up by all the volunteers out there. Several important national voluntary actors have been promoted by an overall committee, one of which is Norway’s Voluntary Centres, which do an important job of empowerment and knowledge sharing for all local volunteer centres. The VAT compensation scheme is important for the whole of voluntary activity. It's a simple and unbureaucratic model. In 2013 Stortinget granted 950 million. kr to the scheme. Next year, the pot is increasing by 184 million. kr to a historically high level, above 1,5 billion. kr. That's something we're all proud of. I see that the Central Party and the UK in the budget write a note that the government and the Christian People's Party are based on a curtailment of the VAT compensation scheme of 22,5 p.m. Then I almost have to ask how to claim that we base this on. The abbreviation is the result of two numbers: how much is granted and how much is the amount of the application. Both numbers are historically high, and if we can get down to a 22.5 pst abbreviation, it's also a historically good number. In addition, it is important to provide for VAT compensation for the construction of sports facilities. In recent years, even this year, the compensation has been 100 pst. and the level of appropriations shall be continued next year. I am pleased that a joint committee joined in the comment asking the government to come back to Stortinget with an assessment of how the Toppportunity Centre on Sognswasser can be realized, as a cooperation between sport and the state, after a preliminary project is in place. I was initially within the freedom of expression and the free, independent press. Let me use a few more words in this area that are crucial to our democracy. We are not adding up to any major changes in the 2019 budget, which several have already been involved, and the reason for this is that the government has announced a media announcement, which hopefully comes right over Christmas. Here there will be room for discussing devices and what overall objectives we will set to ensure a good media diversity in the years to come. Right-wing ambition is that we should work well over the winter to achieve a broad deal in this policy area. The debate on DAB and FM has emerged with the same commitment in recent months as the debate on wolves and regional reform, and in particular it engages the many drivers and supporters of local radio. That's why I'm glad that we also brought with us an almost collective committee to ask the government to come back to the Stortinget with a case in which they consider extending the FM concessions for local radios outside the big cities until 2031. The voluntary notice was submitted on Friday, and the Ministry of Culture concludes, among other things. as follows: ‘Freedom Norway has proposed that a year of volunteering be dedicated to all the activities that take place in Norwegian communities. The Ministry of Culture will enter into such a year in 2022 in close cooperation between the voluntary sector and public administrations.’.» This deserves the volunteer, and I'm happy to work to get this done along with the wide-ranging creation of volunteering. At the end of the day, I would like to say that I note that the Workers' Party and the representative of Trettebergstuen have no answer to how they want to mobilise private donors in the cultural sector in response to their opposition to the gift-enhancing scheme, and I think that is basically a little sad on behalf of culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1721	I have to say that I think it is quite amazing to live in Norway, which is the world leader in volunteering. More than half of the population in our country are engaged in voluntary work — young people who are elderly. The Progress Party is very proud that volunteering has such an important place and tradition in Norwegian culture. Volunteering is part of defining who we are, and the Progress Party will continue to fight for free and strengthened volunteering, of course. With the Progress Party in government, we have gone beyond the red-green long tradition of wanting to override cultural and volunteer organisations receiving public support. It should be obvious that the State does not intervene and regulate, for example. the plays to be set up, or with whom the voluntary organisations will cooperate. In our eyes, spending money and festivities on volunteering are of little help, if you assume a state override. For the Progress Party, the objective is a simpler everyday life for volunteers and volunteers. I am therefore very pleased to receive the volunteer message that the government has now submitted in the new year. VAT compensation is important for volunteering. I think all the parties in this room agree on that, but I'm very proud that the Progress Party is part of a government that increases the VAT compensation by 184 million. kr in the 2019 State Budget, in cooperation with the Christian People's Party. That means we've increased the scheme by over 650 million since 2013. kr. Together, voluntary organisations will receive more than 1.5 billion. kr. In addition, I am very proud that the four cooperation parties now also increase the amount of the deduction for gifts to non-governmental organisations to NOK 50 000. We do this at the same time as we propose to increase the limit on when voluntary organisations have to pay employers' fees, to NOK 80000. I think it is time – on behalf of me and at least the Progress Party, for which I am speaking – to give thanks to all the volunteers who have contributed in the year 2018. We actually didn't make it without you, and I'm 100 pst. Convinced that you will make an amazing effort even in the year to come. I also think it is very nice to announce during the Advent season that the government in the aged budget is in favour of the local sports teams and associations getting full VAT compensation in the construction of sports facilities in 2018. Since the Progress Party came into government in 2013, all applicants have received full annual approval of their approved applications and no derogation will be granted in 2018. Finally, unlike the Workers' Party and SV, the Progress Party sees the value of art and culture in society and sees the value of engaging financially. The gift-enhancing system recognises and encourages civil society’s commitment to cultural life, ensuring greater diversity. It is sad that some parties in this hall do not support that scheme. Thanks to the gift-enhancing system for art and culture, which is strengthened in 2018, it is now available, for example: cultural institutions in Hordaland 5.4 million. kr in gift enhancement. You can mention “Statsraad Lehmkuhl”, Bergen Philharmonic Orchestra, Aquarium in Bergen, Literature House in Bergen, Hordaland Theatre and a number of others. These are the actors I have had direct contact with, and I know that this is money that comes with very well, and that is a loving reinforcement in these Christmas seasons.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1740	There's so much happening in the field of culture under this government. We've solved flocks by adopting a new copyright, we're thinking in the long term of a new cultural message, and we're taking care of the small communities by delivering a volunteer message. Later today, we are also going to have a debate on the public libraries, where this government has taken a big leap for the libraries through national library strategy. The strategy has produced good results for the libraries, which are an important cultural arena and meeting place for social debate and conversation. The strategy shall be revised in 2019 and the sector is invited to deliver its input. However, 2019 will not be an empty year for the libraries, and the state budget will allocate 50 million. SEK for actions and events supported during the 2019 financial year, in addition to the allocation of 10 million. to support the poverty project to be undertaken by the library. The purpose of the government is to facilitate a wide and varied range of high-quality film offerings. The film and media industry is in continuous development, including: as a result of digital development. The State’s instruments in this area need to be structured in such a way as to contribute to an innovative and competitive film and media industry in line with the changing challenges in the industry. Governments produced a 50 million film package in the autumn. kr more for film, 30 million. kr more to the Film Fund, where we put more emphasis on gambling by putting off 5 million. kr of the increase in international bets on computer games. The incentive scheme for international film and series production in Norway has increased by 10 million. kr, and you want to create a film commission. So it's also set at $3 million. kr for this purpose. The regional film funds will be strengthened by 2 million. kr, and the urban cinema is strengthened by 2,5 million. kr. The International Sámi Film Institute has been strengthened by SEK 600 000 to ensure good operation of the Centre so that they can continue the important work. At the same time, I am pleased that budgetary cooperation with the Christian People's Party has given priorities in the state budget that I believe are in favour of strengthening this, among other things. with support for the Tvibit Film Growth House, which has received a total of 2.5 million. kr i support. There has also been an increase in media support for Sami newspapers, which have a special responsibility to write about important Sami issues for Sami communities in both Norwegian and Sami. I want some of the support to also be used to boost innovation in these newspapers, so that they can continue to be relevant in the future. Securing the language and culture of indigenous peoples is important for this government. That's why you've granted $10 million. SEK to Vadsø municipality and to Varanger municipality, with promise of a further 33 million. NOK 43 million. kr, in order to secure the Varanger Museum, which will then be a national centre for Norwegian-female language and cultural history. Finally, I just have to press that I'm very pleased that the Arctic Race bike ride has been transferred to the cultural budget. There is no change in the purpose of the bicycle ride subsidy, which is of commercial interest, where the promotion of Norwegian culture and North Norway is important for attracting tourists, and Arctic Race, with its promotion and network of international television channels, makes an excellent effort. Then I just have to say that I'm glad that I've got the committee's agreement to stand behind the comment on the Finnmark race, which really acknowledges this dog race that will be 40 in 2020. The survey among the population shows that the entire 42 pst. the dog race is known by its inhabitants, which has also led to dog driving being one of the most popular travel products and an exotic experience that attracts many interested people and is followed by many internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1759	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1764	A brief clarification of the situation of the Vestfossen Art Laboratory: All parties except the Center Party have a comprehensive description of the Vestfossen Art Laboratory on page 67 in the setting – very big words. For me it is not possible to sit still any longer, therefore this post. When the centre lot is not included in the note, it is because the note is not adequate for the actual conditions. West Fossen Art Laboratory has been an enrichment for West Fossen. However, the problem now is that what is described as a vital heavyweight in contemporary art, unfortunately, has no root in the numbers visited. The share of own resources, including a café, is now only about 5 pst., or approx. 300,000 kroner. This is not fair. The offer must be more attractive to people when public funding was about 6 million. kr in 2017. Unfortunately, I do not know what is registered visitation numbers, but they are notified. At the end of 2017, equity was negative of approximately 4 million. kr. It may not be right to use public money to pay this. So the foundation is in a very demanding economic situation, and that is not an economic basis for investing in full-year operations without very large, new, increased public funds. I therefore expect those who donate money to go through the operation and get full, and I stress the full, overview of the whole. This concerns both the Ministry of Culture, the State of Buskerud and, not least, the Upper Eiker Municipality, and also the head of the committee, Kristin Ørmen Johnsen, who has been a driving force behind the increases in appropriations we have seen. The central party therefore does not see the right to increase government funding for 2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1773	I understand that the representative Pettersen is concerned with the welfare of the future. It is also the Workers' Party, and that is why we are pursuing a policy that reduces the differences and does not increase the inequalities. I have to say I was more concerned when I listened to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality in the previous case, where I felt that she almost devalued that the proportion of poor children had increased from 67 000 during the Stoltenberg government to 116 000 now. It's a number to care about. It's not a few. In NOU 2013: 4, the 2014 Culture Survey, it was found that social inequality is reflected in the participation of the population in cultural activities. The use of cultural services in the population covariates with, inter alia: income, education, sex and geographical location. In order to contribute to greater cohesion also in the field of cultural participation, it is necessary to use policy instruments. I would like to refer to initiatives such as volunteer centres, the cultural walking stick, the cultural nesting package and the cultural map for young people as examples. These hit broadly, but best those who need the community's solutions the most. The increasing disparities in society particularly affect the standard of living and quality of life of children, and it increases the risk of more people not being included together and not being able to participate in general recreational activities. The gift enhancement system is much discussed in the hall today, and I have heard from the government parties that they think it is very good. But the numbers don't pass. It's a centralizing system, and it gives the most culture where it's most from before. The Workers' Party's 'All shall be included' requires a policy that builds up and allows everyone to participate. At a time when 116 000 children live in poverty, the Labour Party believes it is important to start building up under this initiative that some wise ladies started, namely the BUA scheme. It was in order to professionalise and have arrangements available to make loans for leisure and sports equipment free of charge. We want it to be as easy to borrow sports and leisure equipment as it is to borrow books from the library, and that's why we have put money into this. So the working party has more to use than the government because of redistribution. Among other things, we have funds for the ‘Hestman’. The ‘Hestman’ is a boat and a war sailing museum that is behind the whole of the South’s political team and wants to prioritise. This government says no. It will not enable the ‘Hestman’ to participate in the peace marking in 2020. It's just tragic.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1788	In my first post, I could say that I was proud of the cultural budget. But there is another aspect of this budget that makes me proud, and that is the side that shows how forward-looking this budget too is, because we are making sure that we provide grants for new ideas and new schemes and offer offers that are also devoted to emerging generations. Among other things, in addition to providing solid support for the established sport, we also provide support for the self-organised sport through, among other things. Tverga, and not least we support the X Games, which provide good examples for emerging generations of snowboarders, health-interested, skate-interested and many more sports. Then it's forward-looking because at a time when our lives have largely been digitised also in terms of our entertainment and cultural habits, we're putting in solid digitisation initiatives and pointing to how technology can be involved in raising Norwegian culture. Not least, next year, we're going to grant $5 million. earmarked crowns for computer games – an industry with high potential, which finally receives positive signals from government. Finally, computer games get the recognition they need to be a medium for conveying Norwegian art and culture, both music, visual art and good stories – not least in a motivating way. While very many of us just use computer games like disconnection and leisure, it's also a social arena. Through games you can become acquainted with people with the same interests around the world, and the Internet has made our leisure time limitless. Just the social aspect should be part of and be a good reason to talk computer games up, because many of the challenges we face in our society are about alienation. Not being part of a community can be dangerous. It creates frustration and mental ill health. Loneliness is a growing problem among both young and old, and then it's great to know that 63 pst. by the Nordics, some form of voluntary effort was made last year. Most of us spend some of our time on others, and it's really a value that's worth taking care of. That's how we build trust, understanding and respect, and that's how we promise each other and create good lives together. That is why I am also extremely pleased with the solid increase in volunteering and the increase in free resources that we are giving in this budget, because volunteering is also a pillar of our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1799	Being red is a value. I thought I would start this article by being just that. Is there one thing I would like to boast of the Left and the representative of Almeland, there is just one of what he was inside in his post now; looking at games as part of cultural life, looking at games as art, but also as something we can use to create value in this country. There is something I have also missed in the past. So that's where I'll start with some bragging. But the reason I actually drew was the post from the representative Hemdal. The representative of the Progress Party uses a post to hammer against the red-green parties in order to apparently have a tradition to override cultural life. The representative says that we've decided what some theatres should set up and what organisations you can work with. Some of the same claims were also made by the representative in the reply. I have a little trouble understanding where these statements come from. I definitely don't know how to do that. For SV, it has always been quite obvious that the freedom and independence of art are fundamental. I actually spent a lot of time in my post at the beginning of this debate on this. However, the representative Hemdal repeats claims that we should override culture, and I do not understand where it comes from. It will also be extra special given the recent history of representatives of the Progress Party on this issue. This summer the 22nd of July centre had an exhibition. Then the party's vice-leader Sylvi Listhaug reacted. She said, how can a state-aided centre keep up with this? And she threatened the state aid. It's to intervene thoroughly in the art and the independence of culture. To one thing we've had lately. There may be reasons to criticise the performance and use of methods by Black Box Theatre, but once again when representatives from the Progress Party threaten State aid – Black Box Theatre receives public support – because they do not like the content, it is a thorough violation of the free choice of programme by a free theater. It's quite serious. That's why I don't think the representative of the Progress Party, of all parties, comes up here with undocumented claims that it's the red-green parties that override art and culture. On the contrary, we are proposing increased free resources for volunteering. We are proposing free funding to the Culture Fund so that they can put professional judgements first and not be overrun by politicians, as the Progress Party clearly wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1811	There has been a lot of talk about the gift-enhancing system today, quite rightly, I think, because there is a system that has received relatively little attention, despite the fact that it is quite undemocratic. The government parties continue to claim that this is a scheme that helps to make more private money into cultural life. That's wrong. Those who work in the big foundations, and those who sponsor, are saying that. There have been several reports that have said this: the gift enhancement scheme does not give any incentives to the private donor. It's the institutions that attract the money, that get more. We don't have to imagine that cultural life is ever going to be able to compete with sports in attracting private money. It's about the public base, television broadcasting, etc. But no one is against doing more to make cultural life stand on, as is said here. Everybody's busy with it. The point is just how we do it. We're going to spend 134 million. kr of taxpayers’ money – or rather the crowns of those who play at Norsk Tipping – that those who are already good at sponsoring will get more. I instead listed who gets. Oslo gets over 20 million. SEK, Akershus gets 16 million. kr, Hordaland gets 20 million. kr, Hedmark gets 800000 kr, Sogn and Fjordane get 500000 kr, Finnmark gets nothing. There is a difference between institutions' ability to attract private money, and this mechanism allows those who are already good to get more. It is undemocratic. If you were really concerned about getting this done, I don't understand why the government is not just going for tax deductions for private donors. It would really be an incentive for those who are dealing with that kind of thing. We in the Workers' Party created something called Norwegian Public Development when we were in government. We wanted to have a forum, an organisation, that helped the institutions increase the audience base, develop and become more attractive. It's an organization where a lot of cultural institutions meet, share experiences, learn from each other, and get support and help to do just that job of getting better at attracting more private money. That organisation works, but the government has removed it from the government budget. In addition, we focused on culture by doubling the cultural budget through the cultural promise. A report from Arts & Business Norway stated a few years ago that every third company manager believed that a strong increase in the cultural budget, and that a government had a stake, made it more interesting to sponsor cultural life. It got a boost and became more lucrative. That way we want to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1826	There's been a lot of talk about the gift enhancement scheme. The scheme itself has been the cultural baby of the government – especially of the previous government. It might also be right to say that this has been the Right Cultural Baby. It was introduced while Thorhild Widvey was Minister of Culture. It is also the baby of the current Minister of Culture, I understand. This is a system that the Christian People's Party has neither opposed nor applauded, but neither have we taken the war and fought against it. But we've always been very careful to remind the government that there isn't a Sarepta pot out there with private funds that are inexhaustible. In the future too, high government subsidies are needed to ensure that we have a broad cultural life, with both the broad and the narrow. But what's going to be important in the future is looking at how we can raise the artist economy. In our alternative budget, we did just that, and I had the hope that in the budget negotiations we would be able to see through to several of the measures we proposed, among others. creating 100 new artists' scholarships. This is important in order to give artists in several cultural fields an opportunity to live by the art they create. I look forward very much to this committee dealing with the artist's message when it comes, for this will be very important to look forward to. We know, among other things: that visual artists are the ones who get the worst out. I know visual artists who enjoy going away with retirement. Then they leave and become minimum pensioners, but at least they get a predictable income. So the artist economy becomes an important area in the future. I will continue to say a little about the church budget. I have said that I am pleased that through the budget negotiations we have managed to strengthen the church's budget, so that they do not go to dismissals or remove performances. They have also been given the opportunity to invest, as they have been strengthened in their budget. I am also pleased that, through the negotiations, we have managed to spend money on a rehabilitation programme for stone churches. There we all know that there are great challenges. It has been expressed from this room – a majority of this Greatness has also pointed out – that the State must take more responsibility for the rehabilitation of the stone churches. There is nothing the municipalities themselves can carry. I am also pleased that we have been given money to a climate fund, which is not only to go to stone churches, but to churches in general, because we know that climate change has also given church buildings a major challenge. I'm glad we got a sum in place for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1839	I heard the tone of the President when I got the floor – it was an invitation not to make a big debate – but I have to comment on some things. One is that when you hope to get to a government expansion, you have to be able to say what messages you want to be in before they are submitted to the government. It is a choice that the Christian People's Party has been given. We are very ready to submit a media message very soon when we have clarified the policy of the government behind this, so the Storting is going to get it very soon. Then I just have to comment on this with the gift enhancement scheme, which became a big debate. There are no large evaluation reports other than those contained in the Ministry’s own documents. What I don't fully understand is that by getting almost 1 billion. NOK in private money, should be reduced to someone else. The fact that some museums are good at getting money, makes the state have room to give money to other museums. That's what we do in this year's budget when we grant almost 1 billion. kr from Vadsø to Kristiansand. Of the money in this year's state budget for construction, only 10 million goes. kr to Oslo. This is really a measure to lift the country as a whole, and is a system that is governed by rules, such as the VAT compensation. That's usually something the Storting likes. It is not a political priority, it is governed by legislation. But what I might think is strange is the desire to have tax deductions instead. It may be a good arrangement for the future, but now we have a arrangement where the museum gets money when they're good. If you would rather have a tax deduction scheme, the donor is the one who gets money when they are good. I'd like to give money to the museums, and that's what this system basically does. Then I noticed the comments about the West Fossen, and I will come back to that. I have not received those signals, and the budget agreement also gives more money to the West Fossen. I'm not going to comment on the rest, hoping not to extend the evening for the president.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1852	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 2 and 3 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1881	I hear there's song in the halls here, and it delights me. I want to start by thanking the Committee for a good cooperation on these two issues. I would also like to thank the government, both for presenting the matter to Stortinget so quickly, and for signaling that the law change can take effect soon. This will benefit Norwegian citizens travelling in the EEA area, but it will also benefit visitors to Norway. Today, we are considering legislative proposals to implement Regulation 2017/1128, on cross-border portability of online content services in the internal market, also called the Portability Regulation. It provides rules to ensure that subscribers of portable online content services also have access to these services when staying temporarily in countries other than their country of residence. To put it in a slightly more popular language, you can now see, for example. The farm or other series you follow, even when you're on vacation. Unfortunately, now that the EU has introduced the regulation, there are different legal bases in Norway and the rest of the EEA territory. That means two things. Firstly, it means that the providers of such services have to deal with two different sets of rules, and that in turn means that they can easily choose to concentrate on the largest market and allow Norwegian consumers to have lower services. Secondly, it means that Norwegian consumers are initially provided with poorer services, simply because they do not require portability of the content to which they subscribe. Fortunately, it seems that today we have a unanimous vote here in the Chamber, and the government has signaled that the law can come into force quite quickly. Today's case also contains some legislative changes to other laws. Here there are references to former copyrights and updating concepts, and there is more of a technical exercise. With that, I recommend the settings.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1896	I will just comment on some of the comments made by the Committee in its position. This is a very good thing. I think this concerns many more than the length of the debate should be, and I think people are happy that we are finding solutions to it. We're going to do it so that this gets into Norwegian legislation as quickly as possible. We have to be completely honest and say that we are now just waiting for approval in Everything in Iceland. I think that's what I'm doing, and then we can transfer this to Norway too. But this legislation only applies to payment services, not free services. What I want to say from the pulpit is that the NRK is working to become a part of this. I think they hope to be able to do that in 2019. Then we can not only take Sumo and TV 2 with us, but also see Dagsrevyen when we are in the South.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1905	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Two and three.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1921	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to three rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1930	Let me start by thanking the Committee on Cooperation in the context of this proposal for a representative. For us in the family and cultural committee, and for everyone out there in voluntary teams and associations, the VAT compensation system is strongly committed. This is a simple and unbureaucratic system that strengthens volunteering without influencing the purpose and activity of the sector. I feel that there is an overall committee that is engaged in a good VAT compensation scheme, but we have some different priorities in our budgets. But let me clear a little bit of an argument I see more users. It is said that businesses are exempt from VAT on goods and services they purchase, while voluntary activities do not. This isn't about justice. We are not talking about anyone not paying VAT, but that it is always the final buyer who gets the VAT bill. Being the final buyer means that you do not sell the goods or the service. A ski lift can therefore deduct the VAT for the snowmobile they use in the ski slope. There the buyers of the lift tickets pay VAT. But the Red Cross or I, who do not sell the services further, have to pay the VAT. That is why the Storting has established the VAT compensation scheme — as a social benefit scheme that to date has not been rights-based. In 2013 Stortinget granted 950 million. kr to the scheme. Next year, the pot, as we've heard earlier today, increases by 184 million. kr, to a historically high level of more than 1,5 billion. kr. The Ministry of Culture estimates that about half a billion more are needed to get up to 100 pst. compensation for today’s level of activity out of volunteering. Last Friday, the Minister of Culture presented the voluntary message Volunteerheita – strong, independent, lacking. The majority – with the government parties and the Christian People's Party – say in the context of the proposal we are now discussing, that the questions raised here need to be looked at when we are going to deal with the volunteer message this winter. At the same time, there is reason to mention that the voluntary service provides some indication of multi-annual predictability of the voluntary nature and levels of different support schemes. So it remains to be seen how the Storting stands for this. The government parties and the Christian People's Party are proud that we are able to facilitate the breadth and diversity through good support schemes for volunteering, and that in 2019 we will find room for a historically high grant for VAT compensation. But we are waiting, as I have been told, for any changes to the Storting scheme itself to deal with the volunteer message submitted. I would therefore recommend the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1947	Today, we are dealing with a matter of content that is already on the way from the government. They actually introduced the volunteering message in the Council of State on Friday, and I choose to believe that the proposers are enthusiastic and have difficulty staying as long as they might be. At the same time, I would like to assume that the proposers, like all the others in this Chamber, are concerned with the framework conditions of volunteering, because that is what this is all about. We are all concerned that the voluntary sector should operate its activities. On the civil side, we are also concerned that volunteering should be free of political governance. The debate on VAT compensation goes as far back as the 2000s. In fact, it was this fight that led to the creation of Freedom Norway. Since the issue of VAT compensation came on the agenda, the Progress Party has been a hot supporter of the scheme. We have proposed full compensation on several occasions, and I would like to claim – or rather claim – that if the Advance Party had not been in government, it would perhaps have been slower to put the money in the budget. What we know at least is that under the red-green it went slowly. As the Council of State refers to in its letter of reply, the blue-green government has increased the compensation considerably. We also showed this earlier today when we discussed the budgetary agreement we had with the Christian People's Party. So to the question of whether it should be rule rule rule: yes, I'm going to be completely honest, it's basically something the Progress Party has been very positive about. There are just such questions that we need to get really solved. The compensation mechanism is a quite natural part of the voluntary service that has now been provided, and that proposers choose to jump over a thorough and broad debate is almost at their expense. But for the Progress Party, it is important that volunteering should be free of political governance, driven by the volunteer's own agenda. So with that, I'm saying that we're really looking forward to dealing with volunteering, where several of these themes will be completely natural to deal with, and where you get it done in a thorough way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1962	Yes, the Central Party is enthusiastic about this matter, and we have on several occasions made proposals to secure full VAT compensation for voluntary teams and organisations, because we believe it is the right thing to do. Voluntary organisations are one of the backbones of our society. It is all the football clubs, ski clubs, corps, choirs and relief organisations that create membership, cohesion and security – those that ensure that children and young people have leisure activities to attend, for example. heart, lung and cancer have an organisation in their back when they need it the most, and that will make sure that you are picked up if you are damaged far to the mountain. It is a fundamental mistake that the country should have a voluntary sector as a kind of source of income. Sports teams and other non-governmental organisations often end up in a difficult situation as the VAT legislation is today. Self-employed persons are deducted from their VAT expenditure, while the public does not pay any VAT at all. Freedom shall not be subject to any deduction or exemption. Each year they must apply for reimbursement of their VAT expenditure and the amount of VAT refund depends on the annual budgetary appropriations entered in the State budget. This means that volunteers lose millions who could have been used for increased activity among children and young people. It is unfair that voluntary laws and organisations and sports laws risk being penalised financially by shortening the VAT refund. Moreover, the curtailment has increased in recent years. In 2014, it was only at 17 p.m., but it has risen a lot with the blue-blue, to 27 p.m. in 2017. I've registered that several parties celebrate volunteering and recognize its important contribution to society. Nevertheless, they excel at their absence when it comes to supporting a concrete proposal for full VAT compensation for this sector. It is incomprehensible and quite surprising, I must say, since, among other things. Government lots in their own batch programmes actually enter in order to ensure full VAT compensation. It seems that I have to remind them of. It's obvious that they need me to point it out here. The left has e.g. programmed full VAT compensation. They will even have a similar scheme for voluntary construction and sports facilities. The programme of the Progress Party states: ‘The ideal activities of voluntary teams and organisations shall be free of VAT’. The Right Party programme reads that the Party will ‘ensure good and predictable arrangements with VAT compensation for voluntary organisations’. Look at it! Even the Christian People's Party wants a rule-driven VAT compensation scheme and gives organisations full compensation. I have to say it's a little strange to witness that we don't get this support, but it's explained that you're waiting for the volunteer message. Then it is disappointing to read, as the volunteer message came on Friday, that the government should only step up the reimbursement scheme with a target of 1.8 billion. in 2021. It is not good enough, so I hope that we get a proper discussion when we deal with the message. I would like to point out that by an incubator it has penetrated a small fault. I refer to s. 3 in the setting, where it says: ‘According to the SSB, unpaid effort is estimated at 148 000 annual works and had a value of approximately 75 million. crowns in 2016.’ Of course, that's not 75 million. DKK, but 75 billion. kr. With that, I take up the Senterpartiet and SV's proposal in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1986	The representative of Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e1991	Volunteering builds the country. Without volunteering, Norway would simply stop. It is not just cliché phrases, but a fact, when the voluntary work effort of voluntary organisations in Norway equals 147 800 annual works and, as the representative of the Central Party just pointed out, represents a significant value creation. For those of us who come from the labour movement, voluntary effort is decomposed into our spinal cord and inherited from generations. The movement of workers started up a number of voluntary teams and associations to provide e.g.: the provision of sport and culture to the sons and daughters of the working class. Although voluntary, it's not free. On the contrary, we must appreciate volunteering and facilitate its success. We have to take care of the freedom of volunteering to choose for ourselves what the voluntary teams and associations should do, because if not, it is not voluntary. It may sound banal, but it has some real political consequences. That means that we have to leave the volunteer free from political leadership, and not least we have to provide funding based on free resources. Today, many voluntary teams and associations are familiar with a description of a project and reporting board because as many of the crowns they need are tied up for different purposes and conditions in support schemes. This is why VAT compensation is so important: it gives the voluntary teams and associations free money. The VAT compensation scheme is probably not an aid scheme, it is a compensation. We know that the lack of VAT compensation in practice is a voluntary tax, and therefore it is so important to achieve full VAT compensation. That's why the red-green government introduced the system when we crashed. It also agrees with the whole of the Storting, for the majority has decided that the government should submit a plan of escalation in order to obtain full VAT compensation, but that has not happened. With that in mind, I believe there is some strange criticism from the positioning parties against the Central Party to promote this proposal, while the government itself is unable to present a proper escalation plan, as the Stortinget has decided. We'll see how the treatment of volunteering goes. The voluntary teams and associations still do not have predictability, because they do not know how much they will have to pay in VAT next year until far out of the year, as the situation is now. Therefore, SV supports the voluntary requirement to make VAT compensation predictable, through e.g.: to convert the scheme into an estimate, a regulatory system, and to put in place a VAT compensation that really appreciates all the voluntary efforts that are taking place around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2006	VAT compensation is a very unbureaucratic, simple and important mechanism for providing voluntary funds. It actually started when we introduced VAT on services, and volunteering was to be compensated for that. But the big promise came from 1 January 2010, when we doubled the VAT compensation by also including goods, for example. led the Red Cross to receive the same reimbursement for a snowmobile for rescue work that a high mountain hotel could receive for a snowmobile for tourism. We've seen that the frame we put up to that time, about 1 billion. NOK, has not fully satisfied 100 pst. compensation. It's in itself positive, because that means that the volunteer has a higher activity than we did at the time. The opinion was, although it was not a rule-abiding arrangement, that the volunteer should get his money back. There has been a gradual increase over these years, but we still haven't reached 100 pst. The working party is for a scheme that gives the volunteer money back. We were waiting to go right to the decision, because there was going to be a volunteer message. But it's quite right, as the Center Party says here, that the volunteering, which was an excellent opportunity to investigate this in more detail, does not have that investigation in itself. So unless the treatment of it leads to a solution to this – and we can ask questions and ask for investigations from the Minister in the course of that treatment – the Workers' Party will also come back to stronger instruments. This is -- what are we going to call it to get the Left, Right and Advance Party a little bit more on the loose? – a kind of tax haven that goes to very positive work. I think we can afford the few hundred million this would have cost. There are not very many of the Right and Advance Party contributors who are going to contribute their share to the tax cuts in order for the voluntary to have a big tax cut.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2023	I remember the debate we had a little earlier today, where we also talked a lot about volunteering and volunteering in society, because it's right, as many have pointed out, that volunteering is one of the central pillars of our society. That is precisely why it is a little strange for me to see all these constructive disagreements that several of the representatives point to, because there is one thing that several of us have just agreed on, is that the VAT compensation system needs to be increased. And if someone has actually increased the VAT compensation scheme, it's this government -- with a total of 184 million. kr. So there's really been an increase in that budget that we've discussed earlier today. For the Left, it has been a point in the consideration of this proposal for a representative that, when there was a large-scale notification that would address the VAT compensation system, it could also be a good idea to see this proposal for a representative in the context of that very communication and work. It has not been wanted, and therefore neither will the Left go deeper into this draft representative or look at any of the proposals. It is natural to take it in line with the volunteering message that, after all, is now being promoted and that delivers on a stepping-up plan – to 1.8 billion. kr. So here there are ambitions, there are politics, and we've delivered in this budget. I am pleased to re-examine the discussion on both the VAT compensation scheme and all the other important grant schemes that will ensure that voluntary activity has safe, stable conditions in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2030	It is quite right, as the representative of Aslaug Sem-Jacobsen referred to, that the Christian People's Party has programmed that we want a regulated VAT compensation system. The representative Geske points to what was perceived as the great injustice before the VAT compensation really began to take off. That was when the Red Cross went to buy a snowmobile that they were going to use in the rescue service. They had to pay VAT, while the nearby high mountain hotel did not pay VAT because it was an industrial activity. It's clear that there's an injustice here in which it just has to be cleaned up, and the best solution to it is to make a rule-driven arrangement, as the Christian People's Party has had in its programs for a long, long time. It is absolutely right that we should now start dealing with a volunteer message, and it is important that we address this challenge there. Now this has been talking about for so long, and there's really a lot of agreement on the Storting that we have to get a better order than what we have today. Once again, I would just like to remind you that the family and culture committee – and the president, who was the leader of the previous period, is sitting here – was involved in a proposal for a rapprochement plan, and that that plan was to be a step up against full VAT compensation. This really has the Storting committed itself to, and I therefore think that the volunteering now is the good place to really raise this case and perhaps get it signed out. Then everyone has to take inwards that things cost money. This also costs money, and we all need to find room for it if we are to be able to implement it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2044	Despite the invitation of the representative, the President shall stay away from the debate this time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2049	There is a danger that we will meet the President again in this debate. The government has now submitted its volunteer message. I do not expect the Storting to have opinions on it so early, but from the debate we have had, I hope that you will read both the history chapter and the discussions on this. So I'll be as service minded as I can be, if someone wants further information about it. Voluntaryness is the most important community arena we have, and I tend to say that there are almost none of the Community institutions we have today, whether it is a Nav or a hospital – or whatever it is – that has not come out of volition. So if you think that volunteering arose with the work movement, I think you have to sit down and read the history chapter in the volunteer message -- it's good at it. The government grants 184 million in the budget for 2019. kr to strengthen the scheme. That means that it was a 27.2 pst abbreviation. in 2017, falls to 25.4 pst. in 2019. This is an important system that reaches many. There are 24 000 organisations supported by this scheme. The message Stortinget gave the government, was that it was to deliver an escalating plan. That escalation plan is contained in the voluntary notification. I just want to encourage that we're a little bit sober when we talk about this. The government has said in the escalation plan that we are going to increase the current scheme by 400 million. kr. SV, for example, has 30 million. kr more than the government of the current budget, the Labour Party has 50 million. kr more. That doesn't mean anyone here has given full compensation. The Central Party must have the credit for having $94 million. kr more than what is adopted today, but there are none of the lots here in the hall that have given full compensation. The government has promised to give us 400 million. In the coming years. What is also important in the future are the red tape reforms contained in the message, and I hope that the Storting will go right into it. We will have a new legislation on VAT compensation, which will apply from 1 January 2019, both to make this simpler and less bureaucratic for many of the organisations, and to ensure that the small organisations get the same amount. We are also open to look at many other new approaches to cutting red tape for the organisations. It's perhaps one of the most important steps we can take so that they can once again focus on activity and not on bureaucracy, because that's not what mobilizes more people to act.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2064	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2069	It is very good that the Minister of Culture is service-minded in this matter. That's very fine, because the Minister of Culture's response to the vote on the need in the future turns out it's going to be 1.9 billion. kr already in 2019. Yeah, that's a lot of money. We in the Center Party gave a relatively large sum, but we're also on the escarpment plan and are happy to deliver on it. But that's the goal of full compensation we're concerned about, and we're calling for in the proposal, and we're going to demand in the message. I remember what is in the Left's programme on full VAT compensation, and I hope – while I look at the Minister of Culture – that she, although she wrote the message with this number, is interested in working on it and maybe working it up, because we know that one penny for volunteering gives a lot more. Whether the cost is too high or not is an assessment that we might want to include in the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2076	It's not that often the government commits itself to an escalating sum for the next few years in a big message – that's what we usually promise in the budget – so we're going to focus on this in the future. My point was that there was a big leap this year. We have committed ourselves to lifting it further. It is the budgets that determine it in the years to come, and what majority it is for it, but that this is one of the important initiatives, there is no doubt about it. I just think we should be a little bit sober about what the alternative budgets mean. In that case, the representative from the Central Party has reason to be tallest and darkest, but these are opportunities to work in the budgets further. We've at least made a promise that we're going up to 1.8 billion. kr during this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2081	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2099	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, three rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2108	First, I would like to thank the Committee for a good work on the proposal. Then I am a little happy that the proposal from SV came, because as the case-rapporteur, I then got the opportunity to get better acquainted with the libraries and government policies as well as with how much good has been done in this area. SV proposes in a Document 8 proposal a five-year lift for the libraries. This has been discussed in the Committee and much of what has already been done in the libraries has been presented to the members of the Right, Left and Advance Party. We have just completed a three-year commitment and will evaluate a new national library strategy now in 2019, but this is the policy we want more of, and we will be in favour – as announced in the state budget – of a new library strategy for 2020-2023. In this way, I feel that the proposal for an SV is becoming a bit like turning open doors, all the time many of the things they are proposing, already being done in the government's national library strategy and also planning to do more. I would like to emphasise that the library sector has been given a very good boost through this strategy, and that there has been a positive development in both the commitment and the number of visitors, and we want this to continue. In the Jeleya platform, the government emphasises that it will invest in the public and school libraries, among others. strengthening work on digital platforms and new models for the operation of libraries. In the National Library Strategy 2015-2018, the aim has been to make strategic priorities to strengthen the state’s efforts and follow up the legislative changes that came into force in 2014. This amendment has made clear, among other things: the societal missions of public libraries such as the arena for learning and cultural experiences. Furthermore, the members of the Right do not want to go into any of the proposals promoted by the other parties; we also recommend the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2123	It's said that on the apple you know the tree. In many ways, you might say that in the libraries you know the culture nation. It's one of the best things we have to communicate literature originally, but eventually also a variety of artistic and cultural expressions. It's amazingly democratic. It is an access for all the people to read, to inform themselves, to meet, to get help and guidance in an information society that is becoming increasingly demanding. And it's free of charge. It was kind of the digital sharing society long before the digital was invented. It is an infrastructure that contributes to the construction of a country of culture. It is therefore incredibly important that we have an offensive and comprehensive commitment to the libraries, and especially because technology makes both the opportunities and the challenges very great, it is very important that the Council of State, the Department and the Government take a great deal of responsibility. There is a major change to be made and there are not least demanding issues related to rights and sharing. The current Minister of Culture was, after all, heroically notorious in the cultural sector in the 2009 election campaign, when she went very far in suggesting that she supported illegal file sharing, or at least file sharing that did not fully compensate those who have copyrights. Now she has the opportunity to put herself at the forefront of finding solutions that enable both the inhabitants to make good use of the digital sharing, the free principle in the libraries, and at the same time ensure that those who create the content are paid. Therefore, I am surprised that the government parties could not participate in the red-green parties' proposals for a new national library strategy. The relationship between the different levels of government, between the National Library and the public libraries and, in particular, the school libraries, which in many countries are the very heart of the educational community. There is a need for investment in new library facilities and new means of dissemination, and an offensive initiative is needed. Not least, national solutions are needed, because many of these rights issues cannot solve each library separately, but this can be done together and really a priority country in an area of enormous development. We don't have to leave it to Google, Amazon and other major international groups to share what's created by literature and other art and culture, we can solve this in a good Norwegian way. I am therefore addressing the proposals to which we are co-sponsors.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2136	The representative Trond Giske has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2141	Books and libraries are a fantastic source of knowledge and experiences that enable people to develop and participate actively in society. Libraries have also become particularly important, such as the integration arena and the demand for lowthreshold services. An important task for the libraries is to provide access to books that are no longer available in bookstores because they have lost their commercial interest. This is a key task of cultural policy, which is part of the social mission of the libraries. Providing this access to the public requires resources in the form of both premises and staff. Free lending provides an opportunity for all groups to read literature, regardless of their financial status. It is important that the library is available in the community environment. Thus, libraries are in many ways a cornerstone of the local cultural offer. It is interesting to look at library statistics for the period 1987–2017. 1993 was the top year, then we had over 20 million loans. In 2017, the total number of loans was 16.5 million. The statistics show that since 1987 the lending of children's books has had a very positive development. While there were 6.6 million loans in 1987, there were 8.8 million loans in 2017 from children's books. On the other hand, there has been a decline in the lending of books for adults — from 11 million in 1987 to 7.7 million in 2017. Therefore, the Centre Party supports several of the SV's proposals in this case and agrees that we need a national library promise. It'll be a big contribution to a local cultural promise, something that the Enger Committee pointed to as necessary, and that we in the Center Party want to get. In the nomination, a joint committee happily writes that there is a need for a continued offensive library policy in order to further develop the public libraries. In other words, there is broad political agreement that we need offensive library policies. The question is which parties are actually willing to take concrete action. The central party believes that the public libraries should be the responsibility of the municipalities, and I see what the majority of the committee intends to do when they write in the vote that the designation of funds is contrary to the principle of local self-government. First of all, the centre party is against ringing – yet we have a pragmatic approach to the proposal. The substance of proposal No. 5 is about a time-limited and targeted designation of ear in five years. The current library strategy applies for the period 2015-2018. I note that there will be a new national strategy for the period 2020-2023. We are in favour of a targeted library strategy. We support the SV in that the strategy should cover the elements set out in the proposal, for example: elements such as division of tasks and interaction across levels of administration, clarification of the national responsibilities of the National Library, cooperation between the public libraries and the school libraries and further development of combined libraries. Although there will not be a majority for the proposals in the Chamber today, I hope the Minister has noticed exactly these proposals for strategy. With this, I will address the suggestions the Centerpartie has with SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2162	Then the representative of Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2167	To ensure that everyone gets to participate in a rich and varied cultural life, regardless of wallet and address, we need an active cultural policy that facilitates it. Libraries make knowledge and culture available to everyone, regardless of background, because they are open and free at a low threshold. They are gathering points in many communities. But if the libraries are to succeed in doing just that, they must be relevant and accessible to people, and they must have resources and staffing in order to be able to communicate in a good way. Recently, libraries have evolved, especially as debaters. It is very joyful and shows the great potential of the libraries. But the potential is still not fully exploited. The number of library units has decreased by 92 units, and in addition we go into a time when several municipalities are to be merged. In today's People's Library Act, only at least one library is required in each municipality. That's why many communities are now afraid of losing their proximity to their people's library, and we know that the proximity to the library is crucial for its use. There are already large differences between municipalities in the provision of libraries. But maybe even bigger challenges we have with the school libraries. They can really make sure that all children and young people from an early age get both reading and reading, and we know that good reading from an early age is important for later participation in society. But the school library offer is very poorly regulated, and we know that in many schools there are only a few boxes of books called libraries. The library is an important part of our cultural base wall. But the ground wall also needs to be maintained and sometimes cleaned up. Therefore, the SV proposes a national promise for libraries with earmarked funds for operations over a five-year period, for libraries need resources to be able to invest in dissemination and become relevant — and in addition a new national strategy to see the different libraries together, a separate school library law, and that the proximity of libraries should not be weakened by community mergers. In addition, we propose to establish a national digital media procurement budget. Because more and more of the sources of knowledge and culture end up behind payment walls online, we have to make sure that these walls don't become walls against participation for those who can't afford it. I can also inform the representative from the Right previous post that none of these actions are of the government's policy. Therefore these doors are not open. In a time of increasing differences between people and a so-called fragmented media image, where we live in each of our bubbles on social media, libraries are more important than ever.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2182	With a budgetary settlement with the government parties, I ask for understanding that we cannot support many of these proposals, which would obviously have budgetary implications. But it is not said that the Christian People's Party is not occupied with the library, for we are to the greatest extent. It's quite right, as pointed out, that the library is probably the last cultural arena that's free and open to everyone. For this reason alone, it is important that we focus strongly on the libraries and the library sector in the future. It is quite right, as this proposal also points out, that there are challenges and differences between municipalities and municipalities. If we're talking about school library, for example, we might see the biggest differences between municipalities and from school to school, given the amount of money spent on school library. In some school libraries, you're incredibly skilled. The bets, they have qualified personnel. Other school libraries have student guards. There won't be much literature when you organize it that way. Another thing concerns the libraries in the districts. What happens when the book bus is dropped and replaced by bookcases? It is clear that this will be a worse offer. If we really want the libraries to be a service and an offer for the whole population, no matter where you live, we need to focus heavily on this in the future. Once again, I would like to remind you of the concern I raised with the Council of State in my exchange of lines with her, which is about the merger of municipalities and the fear that libraries will be closed down, which will obviously go beyond the proximity of the library. I am glad that the Council of State responded as offensively as she did, but I think we must take that concern with us and seriously. Otherwise, I want to say that I am happy that we have the opportunity to discuss the libraries, and I am very excited about how the government intends to follow this up. I can at least promise one thing: regardless of whether the Christian People's Party is in government or continues in opposition, we shall be a driving force in strengthening the libraries and library services in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2195	I will not claim that anyone opens doors, but I find that someone feels they are opening an important door, and I think I have to admit that I believe it is open. But it's an honest thing, too. The library is one of the most important institutions we have. It's an important institution of formation, it's an important community arena, and it was among those that the Enger committee pointed out that had lost during the cultural promise. We have had a national library strategy from 2015 to 2018. It led to record visits to Norwegian libraries. It led to Norwegian libraries having three times as many events every year as they had before. The use of resources in Norwegian libraries is just as great as before, and the understanding of the importance of professionals in Norwegian libraries is also as good as it was before. The government has had an ambitious library policy which has tripled the State grant in terms of developing local libraries, through the National Library, up to 48.5 million. kr. We're also building up the digital platform. And sail if maybe not everyone in the room has got it with them, it's like all of us who are citizens of the Norwegian state have access to something called bookholla.no, where we have access to all the Norwegian books that were published before 2001. That was something we completed this year, and all Norwegian books are available to all Norwegian citizens at bookhella.no. Now I have also told the National Library that they should recommend a model for the lending of audiobooks in libraries, but it requires an agreement between the rightholders in this area. So we're building out the digital platforms, we're building out the digital ways of communicating. Next year is the national book year. That means we're going to spend $30 million. kr to increase ease of reading and reading. That means that on December 5th this year, you gave money to 1,500 different book events in 500 different libraries. We've also granted $14 million. kr to an additional project to expand the school libraries. We're going to do that every year, to develop new models to work with school libraries. We're going to create a new library strategy from 2020 to 2023, which aims to get more active dissemination, more digital content, new operating models and look at how regions get involved in developing libraries. We're delivering a lot more than what's in the proposals here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2208	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2214	School libraries provide children and young people from the very beginning with reading skills and reading skills, which are important for reading later in life. Steps Skei Grande and Left have spoken out as friends of the school library, such as in the opinions of previous speakers on cultural policy in the morning newspaper some time ago. The government has announced in the Culture Communication that the Ministry of Culture will look at the different laws in the field. Will the Left follow up on its promises and in this work include an assessment of clearer legal requirements for the content and quality of the school libraries, or a separate school library law, which SV today suggests that the government should investigate, but which the Left chooses to vote down?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2219	We now use the same model nationally as the one we used when we started investing in the school libraries in Oslo when I was a school agency, that is, we want to develop new ways, we want to bet on the projects that can really be successful, and we think it's more important – instead of creating new minimum standards for everyone – to make sure that someone becomes a driver and is able to develop new models to work with school libraries. So now we've decided that we're going to give $14 million. kr every year for four years to try to develop new models that others can look at and reach. It's been a good success for Oslo. There are a lot of schools here that are now developing very good school libraries, because you choose to focus on those who can help develop new models. But then I think the interesting discussion is the shots we have between school libraries, people's libraries and other professional libraries, where we have many opportunities to develop much better models in the operation between the different forms.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2226	Thanks for the answer. In our proposal, we ask the government to issue a separate school library law, and the messages from the field are quite clear that there is a lack of regulation here, although the Council of State obviously does not want to listen to that advice. That's why it's a little alarming when the State Council of Skei Grande answers so clearly whether to work on this now, and at the same time a purely investigative proposal is voted on. This may indicate that the government does not want to ensure any requirement for quality or content in the school libraries by law. But another proposal that the Left is voting on today is to ensure the closeness of the public libraries in meeting with a community merger, such as: The representative, Mr Bekkewold, has also taken up the matter. According to the Culture Communication, the government is to look at the People's Library Act. Does the Left vote in favour of the proposal because the party disagrees that the use of libraries depends on the proximity? Or is this part of the work announced in the Culture Communication?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2235	I think the disagreement between the government and SV is about whether we should sit here in Oslo and decide all the best arrangements around in each municipality. As I said, in my municipality of residence, people's libraries and school libraries have been merged into a much better school library and a much better people's library. We can't control those arrangements from here. The best way to make these arrangements locally is to put them in libraries. What we want to do is give money to everyone who wants to try out new ways of working, new models. It builds amazingly many beautiful libraries all around the country. You can just go down the street here and see how Oslo bets to really get her libraries lifted. It is not that when you build a main library in Bjørvika, you have to build up all the city district libraries. There you've focused heavily on building up a lot of different shapes. I believe that creating one model that suits everyone, when the libraries should perhaps be in malls or in schools and other places in the future, we should not decide for ourselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2240	It's a special caricature of what SV actually suggests, so I would recommend the Council of State to read our proposal. We know from research that proximity to the people's library is crucial for its use. It's estimated that the limit goes about a mile and a half. SV does not propose a uniform model for neither school library nor public library in this proposal. No, we say that today's public library law says quite clearly that there should be one library per municipality, and that could mean merging and decommissioning libraries in the future. Some of that might make sense, but we believe that the government has to take a role, actually follow this up and make sure that the proximity is taken care of. But it's up to the Council of States not to support it. I can't understand that, and I just have to ask, why don't you focus on this with the proximity to the People's Library, which is crucial for the low threshold?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2245	If the representative from SV had heard my reply earlier today, I already replied to Mr. Becquerad that this is something we are following. But here it's a clockwork belief that only the school libraries get their own law, you manage to save them, while I think maybe you should open up these university library, school library and public library laws and get the good arrangements made close to people. It happens that there are some local government representatives who care about libraries. Actually, I think I've met more. I think there are many who are willing to prioritize libraries, but many of the shots that have been between the different ones, make you not think creative enough. We want to pay homage to those who think about creative new arrangements, we want to pay homage to those who are actually betting on the libraries, and there we've done every single thing here through the measures and appropriations that we've actually done.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2250	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2255	When the occasion to boast of my own home country and not least my own home town was here, I thought that I could not let it go away. Because in Stavanger we have Silverberg library and culture house. It's in the heart of the city. It's a meeting place for everyone, with good opening hours, more open library and good employees. The last thing on the show list is that last year there were 1.6 million visitors – the country's best visited library – and they have their own gallery. In this case, it is important to remember that it is the municipalities that own the libraries, and therefore strengthened local economy is an important measure also to raise the libraries. That is why I am pleased that SV is strengthening municipal budgets around the country with 6 billion. kr for next year. The library is important to preserve democracy, to ensure that people are informed, and to contribute to integration. Because as many people have been in this discussion, there's no difference between people when they're in the library. It's free for everyone. In this case, I think it was important to say a little about my own local library, because I think everyone deserves a library as good as the Silverberg in Stavanger. We have spent a lot of money in the municipality cleaning it up – it has been a priority. Then we are in a new era of information, a time that is nevertheless marked by a lot of misinformation. The need for knowledge and understanding of what is happening around us is important, and the libraries are essential to ensure continued strong confidence in democracy. That is why I am pleased that SV has made a proposal on library promises, and I wish that there was a greater atmosphere in this room to actually follow up on what are many good words. There are good suggestions on the table that could be followed up to give a library promise in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2266	It was the Council of State's reply in the reply that led me to take the floor, because the Council of State makes it appear that this is about – again – that it is not known that local politicians are fighting for the libraries around. Yes, it is. And they often make it a big political resistance and get a lot of shit because they spend money in libraries. There are many ways to run libraries, but what is the whole purpose of SV's proposals is to strengthen the state's contribution to this, to say that the state should take responsibility for these local politicians having the opportunity to develop their libraries – whether they do so in large cultural buildings, which promote a lot of fantastic culture and community in the communities, or whether they do it in other ways. So it's about the state's contribution to raising the library sector at a time when, as several of my co-representatives have said, more than ever, it's important to create shared venues where people can participate, where it's free, and not least where you can get the facts, and get help to get the facts. This is very important for education, for the public, to develop good societies that have room for everyone. Therefore, SV believes it is so important that the State should contribute more to the improvement of these good local politicians. That's what's meant, even though the council doesn't seem to understand it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2271	I understand the disappointment of several of the SV representatives when their proposal on library policy is not adopted by this Chamber, because they do not get a majority, but it is precisely because the government parties have their own policies for the libraries that you want to continue. I said from the pulpit instead that we had just gone through a three-year period with a national library strategy. The representative Father Zechariah was up here and told how pleased he was with the development of his local library. In the comments on the matter, we have framed several libraries that we are pleased to develop during the work on this library strategy, precisely because they have been given responsibility for managing important and good arrangements for the National Library, so that its libraries can access arena resources, so that they can develop into cultural arenas, and to project resources, so that they can develop and have new projects in their libraries, so that they can get more visitors. This has been a policy that has been going on for three years. In Framework Area 3 of the State Budget for 2019, which we have just discussed, we have said that this plan should be revised. We're going to get input from the sector on how we can further participate in and develop the library sector. A new library strategy for the next three years has already been announced in the State budget. So you're already doing library development. If someone is interested in learning more about what is happening in the library field, you can go to the library development website.no. It says a lot about how to apply for funds to support local libraries. It's also just triggered 10 million. to measures to combat poverty, to create multi-territorial arenas. So it's not that we in this room don't want to keep on developing the libraries, it's just that we've adopted a policy for this, and we've dealt with the state budget, which says how we're going to proceed with this. We want to continue to support this, and we have full confidence in the Minister of Culture in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2284	I couldn't hold on to this debate either, because as a young boy was just the school library and the library in my little hometown, Øystese, some of what really made me open my eyes to both literature and the world in general, really. Going down to the school library, both before and after school, to a library that was open, with a library that was present and could help me find literature, I know very well the value of. That is why I react a little to the fact that it is claimed by some representatives here that the government does not understand that the state must also take responsibility for the libraries, because we do. After all, we're giving money to the libraries. The discussion here is simply about what premises should be on whether they should be on the premises of the national, state-owned government, that is, the priorities we are doing here, or whether they should be local, in the municipalities, where good solutions must be found to meet exactly that municipality, the structure and the everyday life with which you yourself are familiar. From the representative of SV, Silverberget was brought forward. I have visited the Silverberg and I fully agree that the device it has been given, and the priorities made with the Silverberg, are very good. They've made sure to get an attractive offer, where people can get in the hall down the first floor and just sit down and read the paper and at the same time be exposed to all the good literature that competent librarians choose to show. These are local priorities. It's just the local, good solutions we want to support, and that's where we put the money. I believe that if you can listen to the municipalities and the people out there, through the efforts of this government, we will be able to find good, comprehensive solutions that will ensure that the future's small staging representatives, astronauts, teachers, or whatever it may be, will also be able to find joy in the literature available, either at the school library or at the people's library.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2296	Yeah, we keep going, and that's important. I thought I'd comment on the rather shaky and strange defense we'd get presented by some of the government representatives on this issue. On the one hand, one argues with local self-government and that one should not strengthen the state's efforts, and on the other hand, one argues that one has a government effort and that it is very good. The point of this matter is that not all libraries are like the Silverberg library in Stavanger, as my colleague from Rogaland explained. There are considerable differences between libraries — between municipalities in different parts of the country — and too many do not receive as good an offer as they do. in Stavanger. So to the other part of the defense from the government parties, that this has already been done, that it is turning open doors: yes, it was very nice reading and nice to hear that the government parties have gone in for, for example. to introduce an ear-marked escalator of 1 billion. to the libraries. Hurray for it! It was very nice to hear that the government will come back with a matter of setting up a common national digital media budget. I didn't know that either. It is also nice to hear that the government will come back with a case to ensure the proximity of the libraries when the municipalities are to be merged – very pleasant – and it is nice to hear that the government will come back with its own case about the school libraries. I don't think this is going to happen, because these proposals don't get a majority. This is not to turn open doors on, this I read straight out of the setting. It is not the government's policy, but something SV suggests, precisely because we believe that the national effort to provide a good offer in public libraries and school libraries across the country is not yet good enough. It is a potential that has not been exploited. At a time when there are growing differences between people, where information is growing, libraries are an oasis – an oasis we should bet on nationally as well. But we look at the level of ambition of the government that you don't want to go as far as the SV suggests in this case, and it's just to register.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2309	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2325	I feel that we've become good at dealing with issues that concern copyright in the committee, and that's very good. There's a lot of competence on that in the committee. But this is the first time I have been the case rapporteur for an EEA committee. The background to the proposal is the use of protected material and, as a general rule, requires the consent and licensing of different holders of copyright and related rights. Normally, the rightholder may choose to manage his rights himself or to do so through an organisation, i.e. collective management. In many areas it is neither practicable nor economical for a rightholder to manage his or her rights. In such areas, collective rights management will be more efficient and an important source of income for many rightholders. Collective management also simplifies the mass clearance of rights, making it possible to provide services containing large quantities of protected material. In Norway, organisations such as TONO, Kopinor, Gramo, Norwaco and BONO exercise collective rights management. Collective copyright management includes, inter alia: the issue of licences for users, the control of users, the monitoring of the use of rights, the enforcement of those rights, the collection of fees for the use and distribution of revenues to rightholders. Until the directive we are now discussing was adopted, the activities of the collective management organisations were not regulated at EU level. In Norway, there are no specific rules on how collective management organisations are to carry out their activities, except that there are certain provisions on such management in the regulations of the copyright law §§3-2 to 3-7. There have been considerable differences in the national rules of the different EU countries regarding the operation of collective management organisations, in particular when it comes to transparency, transparency and the relationship with members and outsiders. According to the European Commission, there have been a number of problems with the functioning of collective management organisations in certain countries, resulting in a lack of exploitation of copyright-protected material across borders in the internal market. This is to the detriment of members of collective management organisations, external rightholders and users. The EU has therefore found that uniform regulation of this area is required. Through the Decision of Directive 2014/26/EU, the EU aims to harmonise rules on better governance and increased transparency and transparency of the activities of collective management bodies. The rules shall help to allow rightholders to exercise more effective control over organisations and to improve the efficiency of management. Furthermore, the aim of the Directive is to facilitate and simplify multi-territorial cross-border licensing of musical works for use on the network. Although the structure of the Internet makes it possible to provide music services across Europe from one country to another, the market is still fragmented and multi-territorial licences are not widely used. We therefore consider it appropriate to also introduce basic rules applicable to collective management organisations that offer multi-territorial licensing of musical works. The majority of the committee, with the exception of the Centre Party, had no comments and would like to recommend the proposal for the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2346	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2362	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to three rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2371	This proposition takes account of changes in the Law on Social Security, the Social Services Act and some other laws. The government is also following up several decision-making decisions on care allowances, including: that another member of the family can now enter one of their parents' places and that the derogation for mentally retarded persons aged over 18 is re-entered into the People's Security Act. The government has wanted to evaluate the care allowance scheme after the large expansion in 2017 in order to provide a good basis for assessing any changes that take into account the overall needs of families. The proposal emphasises that if the Storting repeals today’s time limit now, it does so without investigating individual, social and economic consequences. The scheme will have the character of a state care wage. However, the request decision has been followed up by referring to the possibility of making amendments to Law No 28 February 1997. 19 on popular suspicion. Changes are made to include more in the qualification programme. Among other things, the lower age limit changes and the possibilities for implementing education and training through the programme are extended. The day-to-day arrangements are aimed at meeting those closest to the labour market by shifting the vesting period of minimum income and the calculation basis closer to the date of application. In addition, the rules on sickness benefit bases are simplified for self-employed and freelancers, as well as changes to the law on stoppages in payments of public benefits and child contributions when one of the parents has abducted a child abroad. The proposition also reverses the normalisation of the tarification system before the large oil price decrease that led to the conversion of an entire industry. I use the opportunity to thank the Committee for the work on the suspension. In the case of leave, the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left consider that it is unsocial to maintain the length of a system in which the employee pays in practice with income cuts and the use of day-to-day pay when the employer does not have a job in the foreseeable future. That is why we believe that it is right now to normalise the permitting regime, and join in other proposals. It is not difficult to sympathise with families with children and young people in need of care. That is why the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have put forward several proposals, both alone and together, to ensure the rights of families with extraordinary care tasks. In 2007, we promoted joint proposals that would give entitlement to leave and income protection schemes for care tasks. In 2008, the Right proposed to investigate the situation of people performing care tasks for their family members and receiving care pay. By 2013, the Progress Party proposed expansions of care allowances, but was downgraded. At the time, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre wrote that they were satisfied with the measures they themselves had taken to improve the situation of children and families. On the other hand, the Right Party of Advancement and the Christian People's Party believed that particularly seriously ill children should have the best treatment and the best conditions possible. They wrote: ‘In Norway, we are so lucky that we have the opportunity to support children and parents in such a situation, and in the opinion of these members, this is one of the most important areas for society to support.’ In 2017, the government parties received a majority in the Right and Advance Party in order to extend the care scheme to permanent sick children and incorporated almost 9,000 new families into them. This is the largest extension of the care allowance scheme ever, with a background in a thorough investigation. Several of the families we have heard from the last year had until then not been part of the scheme at all. We are very happy that they are now. When the Right believes that the State can't be all for everyone, but a lot for those who need it the most, it's because we mean it. The Community shall set up. However, care allowance is compensation for lost earnings when you have a seriously caring child and should not be a transfer of care responsibility to your parents. In the debate I have heard many say that it is cheaper for the state or the municipality to have a parent stay at home. In that case, it is a step backwards for the welfare society and the welfare state we have built up. That is why we wanted to evaluate the extension of the care allowance scheme in 2017 and look at the consequences of the overall offer to the families. Over the past 50 years, we have gradually built up a welfare offer aimed at removing the pressure on family members to become full-time care providers, particularly for women. The investigation instructions are available for several reasons, including: to obtain an overview of the unforeseen adverse consequences of decisions. If there's someone who doesn't need unforeseen consequences, there's just vulnerable families. The right, the front and the left will vote today for their own loose proposal No. 10 in the case, that the government should promote the necessary legislative changes in order to remove the time limit in the care scheme. We will also support proposal No. 11, tabled by the Christian People's Party. I take this up with me the proposal from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2412	The representative Heidi Nordby Lunde has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2417	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur, who has explained well the content of the proposal, so I will concentrate on the issues where there is disagreement in the committee. There is a case for improving the care system, improving the qualification programme for beneficiaries of social assistance and amending the legislation on leave. All three areas have one feature in common. They deal in each way with the taskbar. There is a clear distinction between the opposition parties on one side and the governmental parties on the other. The red-green parts see the taskbar as an opportunity for those who want and can. We want a welfare system that provides people with the necessary assistance to maintain or qualify for work. For those who can't, we're going to have a welfare system that gives a decent life. The government parties have for five and a half years completed one cut after another in our common social security network and called it the workline. We call the unsocial cut in the social welfare of those who have the least. You don't whip people back to work. Where the Christian People's Party is going to move forward, is a little harder to predict in these times, but I hope the Greatness will still be able to take good majority decisions for the benefit of those who struggle to get their everyday lives to jump. Care allowance is the big deal in this proposition – in several ways. The Government Parties state in their comments that the Government has made major improvements to the 2017 scheme. That's just partially correct. Changes have been made at the initiative of the government, but not all have been improvements. That permanent sick children were integrated was an improvement, but it came after strong political pressure from the affected themselves. At the same time, there was an absolute time limit for these in five years, so that the improvement for those with long-term ill children could be said to have been limited. A cut in the compensation rate from 100 to 66 pst. After a year no improvement can be called either. It was positive that the age limit was raised to 18 years, but a number of good opposition proposals were actually downgraded, including a proposal to remove the 18-year limit for care of people with developmental disabilities. Gradient possibilities would be an improvement, but are practised so strictly that it has become very difficult for many. Many also feel very uncertain about the use of the time-quota system for parents with long-term ill children. All of this happened in the previous period. After the 2017 election, the bulk of the population changed. From then on, the bulk of the population has pushed for new improvements. Against the votes of the government parties, Stortinget has ordered the government to promote a case this year of 100 p.m. compensation, the abolition of the five-year time limit and the investigation of the consequences of the inclusion of parents without acquired rights. Are these improvements in line with the taskbar? The Labour Party will claim that they are. Parents using the scheme for a limited period of time may retain their employment. It's important. Parents in need of care until the child reaches the age of 18 are provided with a welfare system that provides them with security of income, and that is also important. The second thing I want to highlight is the proposals for changes to the qualification programme. It's for social welfare recipients who want to qualify for work, and it's in line with the line of work. But there has developed a practice in Nav where too few get an offer, contrary to Storting's assumptions. It was originally assumed that the program would include 30,000, but reality says 5,400 participants. We therefore support the government's proposal at this point, but had hoped that the Stortinget could also be included in our proposal, proposal No. 8, extending the length of the programme from one to three years. Once again, in the budget negotiations between the majority parties in Stortinget, we find that there is a very creative proposal in late night hours, this time in the form of an increase in the employer's period of leave from 10 to 15 days. It is in addition to the proposal in the budget to cut the length of the leave period. An extension of the employer’s five-day period causes employers along our coast, employers who are already in a situation of pressure, an additional cost of 54 million. kr. The Labour Party will vote against that proposal. We don't think it's right to touch the permitting code now. Finally, I will address the proposals to which the Workers' Party is a part of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2440	The representative Lise Christoffersen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2445	This proposition covers many themes, such as: Pleasure money. Care allowance is, and has been, a scheme to ensure temporary loss of income for caregivers who are unable to combine supervision and care for seriously ill children with full employment. The care allowance shall cover the immediate loss of income and be provided in accordance with the same rules as many other funds allocated, such as: sick pay and parental leave. In 2017, some improvements were made to help their families and children. Several families have now been entitled to care allowance, both families who were previously unable to use the scheme and those who used the scheme a little. The scheme has also become more flexible to combine work with care. You've changed the scaling of your care money down to 20 pst, so you can work more without getting the reduction you got earlier, when it was 50 pst. It is very important for many to be able to maintain a relationship with the labour market even if you are at home with sick children. Hopefully you're going back to work, and you're going to be able to combine without having to choose either or I think I can also be good for your parents. They get the opportunity to keep up-to-date on the job, so you can maintain the network you have there. The regulatory framework has also become a little simpler, so that the risk of discrimination has been reduced. The very strict disease requirement has been relaxed and the age limit has generally been increased to 18 years, the 18-year derogation for mentally retarded patients has been reinstated, and long-term ill children are now included in the scheme. The scheme has become more predictable and provides better financial security by providing 100 pst. care allowance from day one. One has, among other things: give families greater freedom of choice and flexibility so that caregivers other than their parents can tread. I think that in some cases it has to be a much better solution. Then you can engage other family members, and two can share in the care at the same time. Once you could do this only if it was a life-threatening or very serious illness of the child, so this change will probably give both greater freedom of choice and more opportunities, which are for the best. In the past, it was also about the introduction of waiting days, and in the proposition, the government justifies why this has not been introduced. In addition, it refers to two possible ways to implement it, but fortunately no proposals have been made today. The care allowance scheme is an important scheme in which a good deal of improvements have already been made and several positive changes come into effect at the turn of the year. It is therefore important to review the impact of these changes over time. Everyone who now receives a care allowance started on 1 October last year, i.e. a little over a year ago, regardless of whether you received a care allowance in the past. All started with the same compensation: 100 pst. for five years. The evaluation has already been launched, which will continue until 2022. This evaluation will provide a good basis for further progress, and it is important to point out that none of those in the scheme today will lose their care as long as the evaluation is ongoing. The vast majority of things around the scheme are all agreed on in this hall. The importance of an evaluation was also highlighted when the Committee consulted on the theme in November. As part of the government, of course, the Progress Party supports the same proposals as the government parties. I just want to make it clear that in proposal No. 10 we ask the government to promote a matter of changing the time limit, so that one can assess the whole limitation in a matter of its own and not just propose in a debate to change paragraphs.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2468	The qualification programme is very important. I strongly recommend that the government and the municipalities better facilitate a clarification of the working capacity of those who are struggling, and therefore provide an offer of a qualification programme to far more people than today. It is an incredibly important system, and I would urge rapporteurs to give priority to the action. The Centre Party has here, together with the Workers' Party and SV, proposals to ask the Government to consider the possibility of participating in a part-time qualification programme. The centre batch is strongly dependent on the permitting mechanism, which allows enterprises to maintain their own permanent staff in the event of a malfunction of the work volume. In this way, it is necessary for the Community to take steps to promote permanent employment. The centre party is opposed to the fact that the proportion of the holdings is increased from 10 to 15 days with an obligation to pay. It will weaken the system. For the pension scheme: a request decision was taken on 4 December 2017, which reads: ‘The government asks the government to determine whether the condition for care allowance should be changed so that another member of the family can enter one of the parents’ places.’ It is important here to clarify that there is another family member and not another person. It is important to focus on the care situation at the time of application; it could give the family greater freedom of choice and flexibility. And when the government proposes to change practice from 1 January 2019, it is very good. Furthermore, it is the request decision of 11 December 2017 to extend the care allowance scheme by 100 pst. compensation so that the care allowance scheme becomes a temporary benefit for parents with long-term ill children. The government is opposed because the follow-up to the decision in the government's opinion will have the character of state care pay. There is no argument against the view of the Central Party in the matter. The government considers that with the current time account of 1 300 days, which runs at the earliest from 1 October 2017, the first possible date for the withdrawal of the allowance will therefore be 1 April 2020, if two caregivers withdraw 100 pst. every time. Therefore, the government does not see the need for change in 2018. The Central Party considers that the request proposal now needs to be adopted in order to create predictability and to ensure the safety of parents with long-term ill children. It is important to be aware that care money is provided only after documentation from the specialist health service, and during the consultation on the proposition in the committee, this became clear, and I would say very strongly, carried out by relatives who are in a demanding reality with seriously ill children. A request decision was also adopted on 11 December 2017, which reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to determine the consequences of incorporating parents who have not earned rights into the scheme.’ The government refuses to consider the proposal before the evaluation of the entire care scheme until 2022, and in reality the government does reject the whole request proposal. It is right that non-professional parents, i.e. parents who do not have income as employees or self-employed workers, may be entitled to social assistance and municipal welfare benefits in the case of the care of sick children. However, these are economically very modest and unsafe schemes compared to the care scheme. The fact that parents cannot have labour income can have good and reasonable reasons in many circumstances, and the centre party believes that the request proposal must be realised. The amount of the care allowance can be determined by reference to a stable income that a parent can live on — this is because the entire care scheme is socially very beneficial both economically and in terms of quality. So to the graduation rules in the care scheme: The change in the rating rules in 2017 has caused the graduation rules to take too little account of the recipients who cannot work when the child is under supervision. For some, the changes have hit hard. This applies to parents who are in a situation where, because of ill children, it is completely impossible to go to work because of the child’s medical condition, despite the fact that the child is under supervision. Similarly, it is also when today’s graduation scheme leads to large cuts in care allowance if the caregiver has to stay entirely close to the child and cannot work despite a supervision scheme. This is where we have to be more rowdy. That's wise. If the minority proposals in which the Central Party is a co-sponsor fall, or if the voting order goes like that, the Central Party will vote in favour of proposal No. 9, from SV, for proposal No. 11, from the Christian People's Party, and against proposal No. 10, from the right. The party to the centre shall otherwise vote as recommended by the Committee in respect of the Roman Numeral Decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2502	Rich and healthy people are doing their own thing. They've always done that, and they're always going to do that. Tonight, we will decide perhaps the most important thing of the year in Stortinget. The struggle for a dignified care scheme has been long and fragile. After the changes last year, we haven't come as far as most of us had hoped. I would like to remind you that the care scheme is a system to ensure that seriously ill kids are followed up by their closest friends. Getting the opportunity to be with their own seriously ill kids is something you might think of as a matter of course. But it's not like that in Norway. When the government last year introduced a five-year limit on how long parents can be with their sick kids, many responded. First of all, the families reacted themselves. But fortunately, a majority reacted to the Stortinget as well. A clear message was sent: lift the five-year limit. It makes them with very sick kids unforeseeable, and some people don't dare take care of them even though the kids are very sick. What's going on? Nothing. The government has not followed up the majority in Stortinget. What happens is that the government deals with this issue in terms of an aggregate proposition at the end of the year. The government refers to the derogation, but this does not apply to permanently ill infants. This morning I had a lunch meeting with two mothers, Bettina and Elin, who are fighting for the care system. They're here now, and Bettina asked me to pass on the following: The son Ailo said, 'Mom, is it that if you can't change the law, I must be alone in the hospital then?' Of course, Ailo's going to bring her mother to the hospital. For the past year, those who are recipients have fought against the time quota. These families are also fighting a daily fight for their children. The time quota must be abolished so that families can have predictability in an otherwise unforeseeable situation. Another important point that needs to be corrected is the grading rules. For some families, this has become a trap of poverty. Parents who do not have a real choice to work, because of the child's situation, are cut off their care allowance according to today's rules. SV had hoped that the Christian People's Party could support our proposals in this matter. To adopt changes without a deadline for this government, as the Christian People's Party will, is a game of chance. This game of chance is on behalf of the families who get their income cut. They don't have time to wait. We had hoped that the Christian People's Party would stand up for the families. Without delay, the solution in this case will be postponed. For those of us who are Christian socialists and are fighting for a world of better distribution and less difference, the Bible of Poverty and Justice is an important book. It is the Bible that we otherwise know it, except that where it says about poverty, justice or liberation, the text is marked in yellow. Many know the Gospel of Matthew 25,29. I suspect that the gospel is an inspiration for several of the parties to the far right. The text reads as follows: ‘For those who have it, they shall have it in abundance. But whoever doesn't have is to be taken away even what he has." That's how it's been in Norway. The rich get big tax cuts, while people who have a little from before are deprived of what they have — whether it is child welfare taken from social welfare recipients, disabled people who lose the child supplement, or the parents of seriously ill kids who lose their care. The section of the Gospel of Matthew should be left aside for the future policy of distribution. We can't have a society rigged for the few on top. We have to create a society for the many – a society that takes care of those who need it. In a few weeks, it's Christmas. The greatest gift we can give these families is security, that they know that they can take care of their own children without becoming poorer for that reason. My hope is that the Christian People's Party joins with the red-green parties and gives the families in the gallery security for Christmas. They deserve that. With that I take up SV's loose suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2525	The representative Eirik Faret Sakariassen has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2531	The care allowance scheme is one of the most important things we deal with in this room. She goes right into the human dignity and the potential family has to take care of sick kids. Fortunately, the system has developed correctly in recent years. The time that the Christian People's Party has been allowed to participate in influencing the priorities has been developed and strengthened step by step. We had an impact in the 2018 budget agreement to increase the compensation from 66 pst. to 100 pst. of previous income, and we have removed the age limit of 18 years. Now the next step is to remove the bad constraint of five years, which already makes parents refuse to take out social benefits. The rule is contrary to the regulation on children in hospitals, which says that children have the right to have at least one parent with them while they are in hospital. In the event of a permanent serious illness, both parents must remain with the child. Young people need insight and that life is careful, and parents are the best ones to give it to them. Today's arrangement applies beyond five years in the event of life-threatening disease or non-permanent damage. If a young person has a permanent illness and there is a life-threatening deterioration, he may end up in a situation where he is not entitled to a care allowance. That's what we were forced to do. Last year, the majority of the population decided that the government would make a proposal during 2018 to make the care arrangements for a time-limited performance, so that we can give the relatively few families that debt, and who have heavily nurturing kids, to care for their own property beyond the current five-year period. The government party then meant that this proposal had to be settled, and we opened this up because when we agreed on a decision that said the government would come back to the Storting within a year with a proposal to remove that five-year limitation. Now it's one year later. After the government continues to say that she wants to deal with this matter without having put forward a closer analysis in the meantime, the Christian People's Party will see that this change is coming into place now. We've had a long-standing commitment to a better care plan, and we want to fulfill what we said a year ago. The ministry has estimated that a change will cost between 60 million. NOK 235 million. kr. I don't think we can afford to let be able to support these families. Had it not been for us to remove the limit of five years, many of these kids would have to be cared for by the municipalities after five years. It also has a cost. And it would be likely that more parents would be more likely to be sick to be able to take care of their kids. The Christian People's Party will vote in favour of proposal No. 1 and Proposal No. Four and five. After we finished our alternative state budget for 2019 in the Christian People's Party, we received recordings from the parental reaction to change the care arrangements that it was necessary to change the graduation rules. Unfortunately, the recording was too late for us to get it into the budget agreement for next year. But let me be clear that the Christian People's Party wants the graduation rules to change. For this reason, we propose a proposal asking the government to submit a proposal exempting from the law on popular protection § 9-11, second paragraph, the first sentence when the person caring for the child does not have the possibility of being at work while the child is overseeing others, because he or she has been overseeing and caring for the child at night and is thus in need of sleep, or that it is necessary to be on standby. Some parents who receive child care have children who are so ill and who require so much follow-up that it is not possible to work – regardless of the questions of night supervision and preparedness. Thus, the Christian People's Party stresses that the government must also consider exempting this group from the rules of graduation. We ask the government to make proposals for new graduation rules as soon as possible, because today's rules see more of the family in a demanding economic situation. When it comes to the other proposals that are thematic and mentioned in the proposition, the Christian People's Party will vote against the other minority proposals. I take up the Christian People's Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2559	The representative, Tore Storehaug, then mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2564	Having a sick child is difficult. Having a seriously ill child, with an uncertain future and perhaps heavy, painful days, is something of the worst one can experience as a parent. Sometimes it is simply a nightmare – parenting mixes with feeling inadequate and helpless. At the top, it comes in handy: getting the everyday life together, caring for work and economics, and getting enough sleep and self-time. It takes on both physical and mental. Families who have it need and take advantage of community help. We must continue to strengthen the competences and framework conditions of the first-line service in the municipalities, so that everyone is given an equivalent quality offering, regardless of country. When the child is so sick that one or both parents cannot work full, we must also have a welfare system that compensates. For this reason, I am very pleased that last year we extended the care allowance scheme to include long-term sick children. 9,000 more families were thus allowed to participate in the scheme. We also raised the age limit to 18 years, and it was easier for parents to withdraw care money at the same time. In addition, we changed so that the care allowance could be reduced to 20 p.p. depending on the individual parent’s ability to work. Families are different, and families with seriously ill children need schemes that can adapt to their very special needs. With the change of the care allowance arrangements, the system became more flexible and smoother. It makes a difference for people. Last year, a non-exclusive time account of 1300 days or five years was also introduced. In addition, parents with children with mental retardation may receive care after the age of 18 years. No one will lose the allowance for the next five years with the government’s proposal – a time-lapse that the government announced that they would use to expand the scheme further, and not least to evaluate different follow-ups. However, this is where the exposure has been greatest in the time that the Storting has used to handle the proposition. Many of us have been contacted by people who fear that because of the time account they will suddenly one day stand on the bar and are forced to return to work even if the child is equally ill. It is easy to understand that such turmoil is extra difficult to live with in a day-to-day environment that is already demanding. The left will have good and flexible solutions for families in a very difficult situation. I think that's how we did wise and important extensions last year. However, the response we have received in this case shows that more adjustments are needed here and now. For the left, it's about listening to those who wear their shoes and putting people first. This makes the Left and the other two government parties when we present today a proposal to lift the 1300-day time limit in the care scheme and to ensure that parents are entitled to 100 pst. compensation of previous income. Today, we can, therefore, cross-politically state that a single accumulation of opinion is right to remove any doubt that the 1300-day limitation in the care scheme should be lifted, with the small, but important difference between the government party on one side and the opposition party on the other, that the government party is asking the government to settle, evaluate and make the necessary changes in the promises in such a way as to ensure that the Storting is given a broader basis and better guidance to ensure that the promises and extensions of the arrangements we adopt do not receive unnecessary and unnecessary follow-up. Another clear feedback has been that exceptions to today’s graduation rules may not necessarily meet the real challenges and needs of parents and beneficiaries of care money. Today, when the Christian People's Party, which is not in the Committee, has put forward an own proposal to ask the government to submit proposals for a change of law that opens up to make exceptions to the law on popular protection § 9-11, second paragraph, first sentence, I warn the Left that it will support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2587	In order to ensure a sustainable welfare society in the future, it is important that more people are qualified into the labour market. The municipalities are a central player in the work and an important instrument is the qualification programme. The government is now proposing changes to the qualification programme to make the programme more flexible, so that more people in the target group are reached, and to give greater scope for action to the municipalities. The aim of the scheme is for participants to get out of Nav more quickly and quickly to work through a comprehensive and coordinated follow-up. The number of participants in the programme has decreased in recent years, despite the fact that many people work after participating in the programme. With these changes, the government facilitates the participation of more people in the qualification programme, and the programme can help more people gain the necessary skills and thus also increase the opportunities to get a job to live off. The requests for allowance made by Stortinget in the autumn of 2017 have also been dealt with in the autumn's overall proposal. The proposals are different and are followed up in different ways. First of all, I am glad that we have had a significantly better arrangement for parents with sick children than we have had in the past. It has also been the government's central point with the changes that we started immediately after we took over the government power in 2013. Families with seriously ill children now have greater financial security and predictability in their everyday lives. I am pleased that a joint committee supports proposals for change in practice, so that care can be given to people other than their parents themselves, if the care situation was not established before the entitlement to care allowance arose. The minority in the Labour and Social Committee considers that the government has not followed up the request decision 166 by not promoting a case for the Storting to lift the time limit. We have now dealt with the matter, however, provided the necessary legal technical assistance, so that the Storting can adopt the amendment at its own request. The reason why the government has not promoted this is that we believe that the changes should first be properly investigated, and then propose changes if the investigation shows a need for it. We should, among other things, see an extended care scheme in conjunction with the other schemes to help parents with seriously ill children, and we need to see it in a broader social perspective. I record that the majority of Storting believes it is unnecessary to investigate the consequences of the changes. I believe we have time for this, without affecting the families of sick children. They are already guaranteed the right to social benefits for four years to come. We have announced that we will make proposals that it will no longer be counted two days of the quota when two take out the allowance at the same time. This would give care for five years, and that would mean a lot to the parents of the very sickest children. By a majority to remove the time limit, this proposal no longer has any intention. The increase now decides to change the care allowance from being a temporary income replacement scheme to becoming a permanent scheme. This is a radical change, which has never been investigated before. The question then arises as to whether a review should be carried out of both vesting time requirements and the calculation of the benefit. An evaluation has been carried out in the context of the new legislation. It started in 2017 and will continue until 2022. The evaluation is broad, and it will provide us with a good basis for assessing the need for improvements and, where appropriate, for adjustments to the scheme when it has worked for some years.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2608	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2613	The last time we had a matter of care money for treatment, the majority of the government ordered the company to come back to Stortinget with a matter of making the care arrangements unlimited. The majority said in 2018 – the government decided to come back with a proposal to wait until 2022. This is not the first time we have experienced that the government is training decision-making. Repeated decisions that no one should lose financially to being a foster parent have suffered and continue to suffer the same fate. In the case of care allowance, the majority of people have also asked the government to investigate the consequences of including more parents into the scheme. The answer in the proposition is that the government doesn't want to. My question to the Council of State is: what kind of parliamentaryism is this, and where in our state constitution is it based?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2620	The proposal on how the law can look when it comes to lifting the time limit lies in the proposition. There is a fully-fledged bill there, which the Stortinge may adopt, and which will meet the Stortinge's desire to end the time limit. What has been my point is that we are also covered by the investigation manual. We are obliged and obliged to investigate all the consequences of the proposals we are making. The current size is to go from a temporary income insurance scheme for parents in a working relationship to an unlimited permanent income scheme for parents who have not been in a working relationship. It's a pretty big change, which has never been investigated before. When we proposed to reform a disputed and controversial care scheme that we inherited from the previous government, we retained an element that was also there at the time, namely that it should be temporary. We believe that this should be investigated, and we believe that we have time to look at the different consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2629	I thank you for your answer. When the Council of State is very concerned that things need to be investigated before they can be implemented, I want to repeat what I said in my first question: The majority of the population asked the government to investigate the consequences of incorporating more parents into the scheme. The government says in the proposition that they don't want to. What's the reason why the government doesn't want to do that?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2634	The care allowance scheme introduced by this government means that there are twice as many children included in the scheme as it was in the old scheme. In the past, only children did not have a permanent disease, which was integrated. Now it is also permanently ill. It is this government that has extended the scheme to include far more children and far more diagnosis than before. In addition, we have removed much of the injustice that was in the old system. When we want to assess the consequences of lifting the time limit, it is because we are concerned to see what consequences it can have for the employer's desire and willingness to hire parents with sick children, whether we can imagine that the municipalities will withdraw when the state pays 100 pst. Pleasure pay, and other matters we consider relevant, but we have not had the opportunity to look at because this scheme has not been discussed or proposed in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2641	The council writes in a letter to a Lionemma – Elin, who is in the gallery – that she will wish her and her child all the best. Councillor Hauglie well knows that the best way to do it is to ensure a fair care order and security for Christmas. We as elected representatives have to do more than distribute sympathy. Good wishes help no one. Political decisions that improve everyday life do so. Here I believe the Council of State can not only answer with the exception rule, because it does not apply to permanently ill children. My question is: does the Council know that the rule of exception does not apply to permanently ill children?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2648	The care scheme we have now adopted represents a significant improvement in the care scheme. It sounds like SV thinks it was a better arrangement earlier. It wasn't. Previously, not permanently ill children were part of the scheme at all. The system that was used in the past was deeply unfair to many of the families who actually had sick children, and those who had long-term sick children, and then came into very strict rules of exception, disappeared from and into the system, which was very unpredictable to these children. The system we now have is a significantly better system, and the Storting has expanded the scheme further. I agree that there is no sympathy to distribute. Care should be taken to ensure that there are good arrangements that provide families with good care. The care allowance scheme is one scheme that is important for families. In addition, other schemes are very important if you are to be able to offer a full range of services. User-controlled personal assistance, municipal services, relief services, relief schemes, etc. And we also have to include that in this equation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2656	So the line change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2663	The rapporteur said in his statement that the welfare state cannot be for everyone. That's not what we're talking about right now. When we talk about the care system, we talk about assistance to and financial security for some of the families living in an exceptional state, with seriously ill children. It is so serious in many of these families that they have to be present — many times in very critical situations — for many years. I hear that the Council of State does not understand that the time limit that is now set is new, and that it affects so that many of those in this situation have not dared to take it out or dare to take it out because you do not have the security of what is going to happen when the government sits and investigates. The board has asked the government to investigate this, but the council has not provided the investigation that Stortinget has requested. That is why I am pleased that there is now a majority – that we are voting for – a change in the law. That's the only thing true. In the case of graduation rules, there is even more urgency. It is precisely because the rules of modulation as they are today, that some parents are going to lose their income – because it simply cannot be implemented as it is now. They've become too square. Here we need to have a judgement in the administration that makes it possible to see when this doesn't work, for example. cannot work – neither for the employer nor for the family. That's what these parents have described to us in detail. This means that some of these families may already be in a critical economic situation, because the rules are that way. It seems like the Council of State doesn't understand it. In addition, there are new things that we now experience, that case handlers in Nav can try out medical specialists in these cases. It doesn't belong anywhere. These are families in an exceptional state. This is not all for everyone — this is to ensure the security of some of the families that have the most difficulty in this country. The government is worried about the money – I am too – and then you might be more concerned when you hand it over to the richest and freshest of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2674	In addition to being an alternate at Stortinget, I am the mother of a child with a chronic and life-threatening disease. I have been incredibly lucky with my various employers in her growth. My employers have shown great flexibility, understanding and kindness in my situation as a single mother for a chronically ill child. For long periods I have been totally dependent on this understanding and flexibility to be able to work. My daughter has also been with me in the office a lot of working days, because she has been too sick to be at school. I think all the employees in that office finally had a pult decorated with her drawings. Not everyone has such a job and such employers, and many have children who are far more seriously affected by illness than I am. We can't punish families with sick children financially. You don't choose to work if you can. If the families themselves are not to take care of the children – be in an emergency and move out if necessary – who should do so? If there is something you know as a mother or father in such a situation, it is that although many children may have the same type of disease, the needs for supervision, follow-up and assistance are very individual. As a parent, you cannot leave your child to a health care professional or to the hospital alone without following the treatment with the eyes of the argus. It is I as a parent who has the red thread between the shift shifts, it is I who know the tiny signals whether things go right or wrong. No doctor or other healthcare professional can ever replace the care of a mother or father. I hope we can look back on this day with pride – and with certainty that Norway is a safe place to live, even with sick children. We can only do that if we are in favour of SV's proposal in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2685	It is good that we stop the time-quota system that has been set up for now. That's good. It is good that the Christian People's Party has stood there. Congratulations to the Madame, who has really focused on this and has shown Norway as a whole how this scheme turns out. The whole point of the welfare state is to smooth out differences. That's because we have him. That's why he's created. We often do this by compensating when driving forces lead to the opposite – greater differences. We saw that when we established Social Security, the House Bank, scholarships to study, health for everyone, school for everyone regardless of income, etc. The whole point of the welfare state is to smooth out differences, and that's in the perspective we have to discuss that part of the care arrangement we're not doing anything with today, because there's not multiple for that – the graduation rules. This is a system that, as it looks now, will affect those who cannot work, even with supervision. It's the ones who have it all tough in this system. It's an hour-by-hour abbreviation based on a 37.5-hour week. The reason why the Christian People's Party and others don't want to go into this is because it's too expensive. It is too expensive to help those who have the most difficult within this system. In order to take a parallel to what else we do on Stortinget, over the course of the year that has passed, the 10 pst. with the largest asset received 42.7 pst. by all persons tax cuts. So much of the personal tax cuts in this society go to the richest. The ones that tens over 10 million. kr, since the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Right and the Advance Party began distributing money here in the country, they have received a tax cut that is 100 times larger than for those who charge between 150 000 kroner and 250 000 kroner. It illustrates how easy it is to get more, but it is not easy for those who have problems. Then it's actually very difficult. Then we come to the question Christian People's Party. They have not yet joined any government. They're still free people and can vote for their over-intelligence. But we see in this case what the over-interpretation is. They are not willing to help those who are in this difficult situation. Since we're now going into Christmas, I'm going to show you the story of the merciful Samaritan, because the point of the Samaritan was not just to help, but to get the one who was nud, out of nud. With the values that the Christian People's Party is putting on the ground now, it looks like an actually needs someone to be able to show their next love. It's not a very beautiful sight.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2698	I noticed that the Council of State did not answer my question in the reply chord exchange. If there is an expression that the Council of State is not aware that the rule of exception does not apply to permanently ill children, there is cause for concern. The Council of State is talking at the same time about a much better system. Well, there are people in the gallery and around the country who strongly disagree with such a description of reality. Then it could be that it's not the reality that's in here, but the reality that's out there, that's actually true. The Council of State also states that the government has provided legal assistance to this proposal. There was no legal assistance we needed. It's The Biggest that decides – The Biggest has said what to do, and then it's government's duty to follow it up. The representative, Nordby Lunde, also talks about being easy to sympathize with the families. Then I want to repeat what was my point to the Council of State: it's not the sympathy of these families need, they need arrangements that take care of them and make their life situation easier than it is, because it's not very simple initially. A loose proposal has been made by the representative Nordby Lunde that this should be promoted during the spring session 2019. What are we waiting for? These people need that help now. They don't have time to sit and wait for a solution. The kids are seriously ill; some may be terminally ill. It's not time to delay this kind of decision. The representative Terje Breivik from the Left is talking about the party putting people first. It sounds relatively hollow when you're actually going to go against some of the important changes that SV is agreeing to propose here now. To the Christian People's Party: It's sad for the families this is about you standing in the middle of government negotiations and a government budget negotiated, and that the recordings came in too late. As far as the deadline is concerned, in the Christian People's Party's loose proposals, no deadline is set. First of all, I think these families need this help now. But delivering such a proposal without a deadline is, as I said in the previous article, a game of chance with this government, which has clearly shown how low one prioritizes to do something in this matter. And you can expect that there will probably be an incomplete dossier.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2713	I will not waste time, but I need to give an explanation of vote on behalf of the Workers' Party, which I did not get in my first post. In addition to the proposals for which we ourselves are part, the Labour Party will support proposal No. 9, from SV, on improvements to the grading rules of the care allowance scheme. Should that be the proposal and the minority proposals No. 2 and 3 on the same theme will be reduced, we will subsidly support proposal No. You, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal of the Christian People's Party is not as good as our own proposals, for it does not specify a time limit for the time when the improvements in the grading rules should be in place. We know that today's strict practices create major financial problems for some parents with seriously ill children, and they will still have to wait for a solution, while our proposals would solve the problem here and now. Nevertheless, a decree from the Stortinget to sort things out is better than the fact that today's practice is only going on. But it assumes that the government stops training majority decisions in the Storting. I am pleased that the Christian People's Party supports proposal No. 1, and also that the Christian People's Party stands by its earlier proposal to investigate the consequences of integrating those who have not earned their rights into the care scheme, so that we can now get it in place. We repeat from Stortinget that we will have investigated this, and then the government can't come back again and say no, we won't. I also welcome the support of the Christian People's Party for proposal No. 5, that healthcare professionals need to provide active information to those in need of care. Under-use of social security is estimated to exceed the abuse, and this is a group that really needs to be informed about their rights. So finally: Cut in the basic social welfare of people with coliaki and non-coliaki intolerance to gluten has also raised great protests in the autumn, but that matter is going to be discussed at the budgetary procedure later this week, so I leave the matter itself here and now, and only informs that the Labour Party has its own draft budget in that matter. As a consequence, we must vote against point 1 of XXI in the case we are dealing with today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2726	I hear several people say that we are now proposing to establish a permanent system. No, we don't. This is a scheme in which a specialist assessment is to be carried out every three months. This is a tight now solution that you have to pass over again and again. The condition is narrow and a day-to-day care is required. It's not a permanent system, it's a highly needs-tested system, which is narrow, but which is absolutely essential to give these families, who live in an exceptional state for quite many years, security of income. With regard to the rules of graduation, which now turns out in a way that makes someone maybe have to leave home, the Christian People's Party has a great responsibility when they don't vote for change now, but takes it with them into the government. Then we expect a solution to that quickly. So I'm just going to comment quickly on some of the other changes that are in the proposition: in terms of the permitting rules and changes there, SV is the opposite. With regard to changes in the day-to-day pay legislation, we will follow closely the changes proposed and see if they can bring some unforeseen consequences so that more people who need day-to-day pay get worse. We see a steady trend now that changes lead to more people falling out of the law. With regard to the qualification programme, we are going to vote in favour of the proposal of the Labour Party and the Centre Party. We think it's not good enough, but it's better than nothing. But the qualification programme should be changed so that it becomes as it was meant, as the representative Lise Christoffersen was up and talking about. It's very strange that we talk all the time about people who have had problems with health and major social problems, and who have problems getting laid in the workplace, need shorter measures, shorter qualifications, than those who are healthy and can go through education and training. They think we often need longer time. So we have to make sure of this, and I think I was right the time I was against including this grant in the framework grant. This should have been made visible as a state investment all along, followed up continuously and ensured that the legislation on the qualification programme was so rusty and liberal that people could be qualified, for it is better with two to three years longer with safe income than the rest of their life on social security. Such work benefits, and people get a job if you're patient and do it right.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2735	I thought it was a rather unsympathetic move to play stupid and to mistrust people on purpose. Knag Fylkesnes comes in this debate with claims that the Christian People's Party is going against the changes in the grading rules because it's expensive. He speaks for better knowledge — he knows that there is no diphorism. SV knows very well what it is to stick to agreements and government negotiations, and to a firm budget. It's an important thing to do when you're in charge of managing the country: to stick to the agreements you've made. That's what the Christian People's Party is going to do in the budget unit that we're dealing with the government, and I think that's exactly what SV knows is going to do. If not, it is tempting to come back with a question of showing respect for agreements and budgets. If it wasn't for SV to come up with extensions and improvements to the care arrangements for the eight years they put in government, what was it? Was it that they didn't want them to change, but all of a sudden they want them now when they don't have to give priority? I notice that the representative Knag Fylkesnes has a past as a philosopher, where he has tried to search the truth in his long studies at the University of Tromsø. I think that experience might be useful for him to mention that also in the work he is doing here.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2744	The President is in doubt about claiming that a representative plays stupidly, is in good parliamentary practice, but that is what has been said.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2749	It was a special article. It was a rather personal attack, I'd say, and some kind of attempt to conceal the seriousness of the matter. Here no Christian People's Party has joined any government. They are quite free to support the proposal, which means that a person can remove the grading rules that really frame those who have the most weight in this system – within a sense. That's what this is all about -- it's actually a completely free thing to do. And that when we think that this is where a real group has to be raised, our indignation towards the Christian People's Party is shown on this issue -- well, that's it. We expect better from the Christian People's Party. The Christian People's Party has a long tradition of always supporting those who have the most weight in this society. But what have we experienced after the five years they have supported the government's budget arrangements? Differences are increasing. We now have a record high number of children living in poverty, the rich are getting richer, and it is increasingly harder to help those who have the hardest. When we were in government, the differences in Norway were reduced, while the state's face now, with this government – which the Christian People's Party has now supported the whole heart over five years, and which they are now entering – has gone from being an actor to smooth out differences to an actor that leads them. That I mean is not a party worthy of the Christian People's Party. It's moving away from the citadel to the church, which is about the very opposite. The movement they're doing now is moving away from the idea base on which they were streaming.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2760	The representative, Tore Storehaug, has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2766	The representative Knag Fylkesnes is still talking towards better-informed. He knows that the Christian People's Party fights year after year under the red-green to improve the care arrangement. He knows we voted against the tightening up in the previous period. He knows that we are making suggestions in the debate on the throne in October that the government had to come up with a new issue on cleaning money, which was agreed upon. And he knows that we have had a great deal of success and prioritised this in the negotiations on the state budget for 2019, with an increase of 100 pst. compensation after one year and exemption from the 18-year age limit for family members, and that we are now complying with the five-year limitation. He knows that, and he has chosen to ignore it earlier in the debate, which I thought it was right to point out. It's an English expression that says that 'the proof of the pudding is in the eating', and for the care scheme, things have gone a lot faster, step by step, when the Christian People's Party has had the opportunity to influence those priorities, than when it was SV that did it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2773	The President will recommend that the language used is used in Norwegian. The representative Eirik Faret Sakariassen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2780	It is quite strange that eight red-green years were suddenly to become an argument in this discussion. We're not talking about eight red-green years; we're talking about now. We're talking about families that are in a difficult situation right now, and for them, the past is not particularly interesting. The future, on the other hand, is much more interesting, and that's what we're going to vote over here now. That's why it's going to be hollow to come up with those kind of arguments, and I don't think people out there understand a message that the Christian People's Party is fighting for, but will vote against. For ordinary people, it's incomprehensible, and for us in SV, it's incomprehensible. Then it must be possible to ask questions about how much you are in favour of, when you actually want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2787	The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2792	It's an expression that says that when you look down in the abyss, you also look at the rationale. That's what I'm starting to wonder if it's happened. It has been a great cover-up in the Christian People's Party's project for the last five years. On the one hand, they have fought the cause of the good, with the closest love of the creation, etc., etc., but on the other hand, they have supported a government that has represented the opposite, which has been freed from the creation, human dignity and love of the next. And now we're seeing a case where they're involved in a collaboration that means that they have to voice their over-interpretation – knowing that they could have chosen the opposite side. They could have selected the page that would actually do something about this system. We're ready here, with our arms open and waiting for them to join our side. I also know that the representative Storehaug is aware of this – he wanted something else in that route. But it's not our fault that the Christian People's Party chose the wrong side; it's those who have to take responsibility for choosing a page that goes out on the weakest in this society.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2797	Let me thank you for the debate and the recordings, both in advance of and during the debate. I understand that it engages, because I think we all have sympathy and really want a lot of the same thing. At the same time, I understand that the representative Faret Sakariassen will not talk about eight red-green years, as they had the highest oil price income in human memory, while the hospital queues increased and there were 15 000 more poor children in Norway. Under this government, we've reduced the hospital queues, we've created programs to combat child poverty, and we've shown that there's not necessarily a contradiction between tax haven and welfare. And we know that there is no one who can replace mother or father when the child is sick. This did not recognise the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre as late as 2013, when they voted against an extension of the scheme. As not many of the families concerned once qualified for the scheme, and sympathy was all the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre's offer, until the Right and Advance Party actually incorporated them into the scheme in 2017. I hope not that my colleagues in the Right and Advance Party then attacked some of those who were in government because they did not vote in favour of the proposal, and that it was an attack on creation and human dignity. We know that well-being is more than the sum of the state budget, but for those families that need it the most, we also believe that the state should set up – especially for families with nursing children. That is why it was precisely the Right Party and the Advance Party that proposed extending the care scheme to those who also have long-term ill children. But there is a reason why the investigation instructions exist, and that is among other things. in order to get an overview of the unforeseen adverse consequences of decisions, and are there precisely some people who do not need unforeseen consequences, there are these families. Then I remind you that proposal No. 10 is promoted on behalf of the Right Party, the Progress Party and the Left, where we also call for the promotion of the necessary legislative changes to end the time limit. At the same time, we believe – and we agreed on many of the reasons for the red-greens when they did not support this in 2013 – that there are challenges to introducing a state care allowance that is unlimited, and I believe that these families had deserved to be properly investigated.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2810	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2815	The representative Nordby Lunde may be sorry and worried because there is no investigation, but it is the government's responsibility. The government has asked the government to investigate it, and the government has not done so. So it is not the responsibility of the majority, but we take responsibility for what we have promised these families. That is why we are promoting a legislative proposal that is being adopted today, and I am pleased about that. Yes, there are many things that have improved over the years. It was just supposed to be missing. But I would like to remind you that no government in history has had as much money at its disposal as this government – no one ever. When you're so tired of the country's freshest and richest people, you could be a little more generous with those who live in an exceptional situation with very sick children over a long time, and now worry about whether they have a income they can be safe with.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2822	I have now been sitting and following the debate since it started, and you are then stated. It is then stated when representatives from the right come up to this pulpit and draw the list of panthers in this case, and at the same time blame and point to what happened eight years ago, instead of taking responsibility for what is to happen now, and the future these families are going into. I don't think it's worth it. It is unworthy that we in this Chamber are engaged in that kind of debate. The government hid behind the investigation instructions when Stortinget decided that the government would ask the question, but the government chose not to do so. Fortunately, the Stortinget takes responsibility today and makes a good decision to stop the time limit. But the graduation rules, which we've been through, we're not going to do anything about it. We have seen the wrath of the Christian People's Party over being held responsible for it, but I might wish that the Christian People's Party had shown the same commitment in this matter and the same ability and willingness to make trouble for their government partners, as they have done in other matters over the past few weeks. I thought I would end by reading a short quote that shows me why this is urgent, and why games around government negotiations and budgetary agreements become a little less important. This is a mother who says, «We drown in reminders and debt collection. We have a complicated and very sick child that we have to take care of the nets. She's gonna die, but we don't know when. During the day we have between 4-5 hours where she is on unloading so that we can sleep and therefore our NAV graduated our payments. Graduation rules take the safe life away from us month by month, and we don't know if we have a roof over our heads the day she dies." These families don't have time to wait another year, they don't have time for even more sour stuff. The size could go all the way today and make the right decision, but we have to record – with great disappointment – that the Christian People's Party does not choose to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2838	And I realize that the red-green parties, who had a majority, don't want to talk about the story, because they don't have any reason to turn on their breasts either. I can only remind you that when we dealt with the care case last April, the Committee also supported the day-to-day accounting system, as it was adopted, and thought it was also worth trying, and then the Stortinge countered. The reason I took the floor now was that I wanted to make a few comments. One goes to the father Zechariah, who brought this up with the exception. Yes, the derogation also applies to permanently ill children, but only if the child has a serious disease that is not permanent. In the past, not long-term ill children were part of the scheme at all, as the representative Faret Zechariah probably knows well. To this with investigation, we're going to figure this out and evaluate this. What has been the government's point has been that we have now made such significant changes to the new scheme compared to the other scheme that it is also worth looking at how the new changes will actually turn out. Are there so many children who are being incorporated into the system as what we thought? Could there be more? Is it less? How will it affect the behavior of those who come in? Do they need other offers in addition to what is there? We know very little about how these extensive changes will actually turn out, and we need more than a few months to look at it. I see that the representative Karin Andersen shakes his head, but if we're going to see the effect of new changes, we also need to see how they turn out, and then we need a little more time. So evaluate and evaluate. It should be thorough, and it should also be a broad perspective, because we believe it is important to look at the outcome of this scheme and, in particular, how other schemes will be affected by it. Is it e.g. reason for believing that municipalities are withdrawing and perhaps not offering the services that families should also have, such as relief schemes and other? I record that the majority of the Storting does not want to wait for it, and I take note of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2853	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2869	No one has asked for the floor. Case No. 9–14 are the second time legal proceedings and concern legislative decisions 12 to 17 inclusive. The President will propose that matters be dealt with together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2943	No one has asked to speak on the matter. 9-14.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2955	Then the Storting is ready to vote. That's 42 sides of the wetting base. There are some sharp votes, so the president asks the representatives to follow closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e2966	A total of 18 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-5, by Kari Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 6-8, by Kari Henriksen, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 9-14, from Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 15–17, from Freddy André Supreme Court on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 18 from Kristin Örmen Johnsen on behalf of the Right, the Party of Advancement, the Left and Christian Peoples Party As the chairman of the committee explained during the debate, two words, «to church buildings», had fallen out of proposal No. 18th@item: inlistbox The proposal thus reads as follows: ‘The Swedish Government agrees that the Ministry of Culture will be able to offer new commitments for interest compensation to church buildings in 2019, corresponding to an investment framework of 1 billion. crowns over cap. 342 Cemetery and burial grounds, entry 60 Interest compensation – church building.’ There is a vote on the proposals 15-17, from the Socialist Left. Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come back with an inquiry into the impact of digitisation on literacy, reading experiences, language development and experience.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come back with a review of how children’s and youth literature and their professional environments can be strengthened.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come back with a case concerning the future dissemination of children’s and youth literature.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e3019	President! I voted wrong!
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e3024	I also voted incorrectly!
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e3029	Two voted incorrectly – then we correct it. The correct number of votes will then be 88 votes against the proposals and 9 votes in favour. The Socialist Left's proposals are therefore not accepted. There is a vote on proposal No. 14, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Norwegian Cultural Memory Fund to set up its own climate action programme in sheltered houses from before 1950 and to ask the Government to return to Stortinget in the revised budget for 2019 with a proposal for funding for the project.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e3048	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 9–13, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to launch a State Conservation Programme for medieval stone churches aimed at enabling all Norwegian medieval churches to be established by 2030, the 1000th anniversary of the Battle of Stiklestad.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government requests the launch of a State Conservation Programme for the Peaced Tractors before 1650 which has not been captured by the Stall Church Programme.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government requests the launch of a State Conservation Programme for Protected Churches built in 1650-1850.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government to lay down a plan for all states/regions to have their own building protection centre in charge of local museums and/or voluntary cultural memory organisations.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government in the announced cultural memory message to come back with a proposal for a escalating plan for the Norwegian cultural memory fund so that the fund will receive 300 million in the longer term. cents for annual distribution.’» The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e3088	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6-8, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to convert the incentive scheme for international film and television productions into a system governed by rules and subject it to the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The size asks the government in the revised budget for 2019 to provide an overview of how the changes in the cash support scheme have disabled mothers and fathers’ professional participation in the period from 1 August 2018 to 30. April 2019.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to continue reporting obligations on food chains so that product information suitable for digital solutions is available’.» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e3118	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–5, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to consider the re-establishment of the Collection Register/Collection Control as a fixed action under Chapter. 315 entry 78 Miscellaneous fixed measures.’» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to make the VAT compensation scheme for the construction of sports facilities regulated.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘In the context of the State budget for 2020, the Government is asked to move the Norwegian Cultural Council’s assistant scheme back to its own entry in the Ministry of Culture’s budget.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out an external evaluation of the gift-enhancing scheme and to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The size calls on the government in the context of the State budget for 2020 to propose to increase the size of the private copy compensation to match the impact of the scheme.’;» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e3158	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e4855	The Committee shall be consulted on the position to be taken with regard to A I. It concerns Framework Area 2, family and consumer. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e4869	It shall be heard about the Committee's position on A IV. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e4883	A vote shall be taken on the Committee's position on A II, III and V.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e7531	The opinion shall be put to the vote on the Committee's position on B III. The central party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e7545	A vote shall be taken on the Committee's position on B II and IV to IX.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e7555	There is a vote on proposal No. 18, from the right, from the front of the party, from the left, and from the Christian party. The proposal reads – with the previously mentioned corrigendum: ‘The Swedish Government agrees that the Ministry of Culture will be able to offer new commitments for interest compensation to church buildings in 2019, corresponding to an investment framework of 1 billion. crowns over cap. 342 Tombs and tombs, post 60 Interest compensation - church building.» Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e7784	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e7794	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e7803	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1-3, from Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to propose the introduction of a 100 pst rating. VAT compensation or 0-rate for VAT for non-profit organisations to enter into force by the end of the ageing period 2017-2021.’» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a step-up plan for VAT compensation for non-governmental organisations which achieve the target of 100 pst. compensation by the end of the landfill period 2017 to 2021.’» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for full VAT compensation for all new-building, maintenance and rehabilitation costs of organisational structures and facilities used in the voluntary activities.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e7832	The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e7848	All in all, seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Trond Giske on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 3 and 4, from Trond Giske on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 5-7, from Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5-7, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a proposal for an earmarked increase in the appropriations for the library operations of the municipalities over five years before the appropriations are entered in the framework transfers to the municipalities. The escalation shall ensure that libraries have a greater financial framework to offer what is required by the Public Library Act and that they can have a high level of activity and update to meet the needs of the population.’» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to the United Kingdom with a case concerning the establishment of a common national digital media budget for the purchase of access to digital resources, to be made available at its public libraries, school libraries and research and higher education libraries.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that closeness to the library is maintained when municipalities are merged.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e7891	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 4 from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to increase the grant and to draw up a plan for enhancing the skills of library staff so that more libraries can provide active communication in literature, music and films than at present, as well as assist users with knowledge acquisition and search strategies in an increasingly complex information jungle.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to return to Stortinget with a separate case on school library, including the investigation of a possible school library law and the proposal to impose a school library plan on the municipalities.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e7922	Alternatively, between the setting and the proposals No. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to develop a national library strategy that sees task-sharing and interaction across administrative levels. The strategy should clarify the national responsibilities of the National Library and propose strengthening the regional link. It should also look at cooperation between the public libraries and the school libraries and facilitate the further development of combination libraries. Furthermore, it should consider how national read-only measures can play a role in cooperation with the libraries.’.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure the continuation of a national commitment to the establishment of new library premises, as well as the adaptation or extension of existing library facilities and mobile library facilities, and to continue facilitating more open libraries throughout the country. This will help to make libraries more accessible, with a location where residents travel, preferably in a multi-use concept with other cultural services.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e7957	The Green Party has announced its support for the vote. The Central Party and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e7975	All in all, eleven proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's the proposals No 1-7, from Lise Christoffersen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 8, from Lise Christoffersen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party proposal No 9, by Eirik Faret Sakariassen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 10, from Heidi Nordby Lunde on behalf of the Right, the Party of Advancement and the Left proposal No 11, from Tore Storehaug on behalf of the Christian People's Party There is a vote on proposal No. Eight, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for legislative proposals to ensure that the qualification programme is of the same duration as for redundancy payments’. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e8010	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6 and 7 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking for careful monitoring of developments in the number of participants in the qualification programme, including whether there are significant differences in the offer from municipality to municipality, and, if necessary, return to Stortinget with proposals to repeal the third paragraph of Section 29 of the Social Services Act of the Labour and Welfare Act.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to consider facilitating participation in a part-time qualification programme’. The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e8034	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4 and 5 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to establish a government scheme that ensures financial security for those who have not earned the rights of the care allowance scheme. The Government must return to Stortinget with proposals for such a scheme as soon as possible.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the care scheme is well-known in the municipal and state auxiliaries, in all hospitals/health institutions, health centres and among decision-makers, to ensure that written and oral information on the scheme is provided unsolicited to all those who need it.’ The Christian People's Party, the Greens and the Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e8058	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 28 February 1997 19 on public security is amended as follows: Paragraphs 9 to 11 are replaced by the following: Derogations from the first sentence of the second subparagraph may be made where the person caring for the child is not able to work while the child is supervised by others, because he or she has supervised and cared for the child at night and thus needs rest, or it is necessary to be on standby. And where the person receiving care does not have a real job participation opportunity, with a background in the child's condition. The Ministry may lay down rules laying down the conditions and scope of such derogations. Paragraphs 9 to 16 are replaced by the following: If the requirements for amended grading are set out in the third paragraph of Section 9-11, the need must be demonstrated by a doctor. The current fifth to sixth paragraphs become the sixth to seventh paragraphs.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e8085	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The budget asks the Government, by 28 February 2019 at the latest, to make the necessary proposals for legislative changes to ensure the improvement of the weighting rules in the pension scheme. The laws shall ensure the financial security of families by not gradating care allowance when the recipient is unable to work due to conditions related to the child’s condition. This shall apply when the child is in need of overnight follow-up with a background in the child’s condition, which results in his/her need for sleep and rest when the child is in a supervision system. This shall also apply where necessary to be on standby while the child is under supervision and when the child’s condition is so severe that work is not possible despite the child’s being supervised.’;» The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e8103	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 28 February 1997 19 on public security is amended as follows: Paragraphs 9 to 11 are replaced by the following: Derogations from the first sentence of the second subparagraph may be made where the person caring for the child is not able to work while the child is supervised by others, because he or she has supervised and cared for the child at night and thus needs rest, or it is necessary to be on standby. The Ministry may lay down rules laying down the conditions and scope of such derogations. Paragraphs 9 to 16 are replaced by the following: If requirements for amended grading are set out in Section 9-11, third paragraph, the need for the caregiver to be on standby and the need for night-time monitoring must be documented by a doctor. The current fifth to sixth paragraphs become the sixth to seventh paragraphs.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e8130	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 28 February 1997 19 on public security is amended as follows: the sixth indent of the chapter table in Chapter 9 is deleted; the second paragraph of Section 9-10 is replaced by the following: If the child’s need for continuous supervision and care so requires, up to two caregivers may receive care allowance at the same time, see also Section 9-16, second paragraph. Paragraphs 9-11, second and third paragraphs are replaced by the following: The benefit is graduated for each hour the child is supervised by others, measured against a normal week of work of 37.5 hours. Performance can be scaled down to 20 percent. If the child is supervised by others more than 80 per cent, there is no entitlement to care allowance. The Ministry may lay down detailed rules on graded performance. Paragraphs 9-12. The number of days spent on care — deleted. Paragraphs 9-15, first paragraph, are replaced by the following: Social security benefits provide care and training benefits in accordance with the same provisions as social security benefits, see Chapter 8, but provide self-employed benefits up to six times the basic amount by 100 per cent of the basic amount. The current third to fifth terms become the second to the fourth terms.’ The Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e8177	As a result of the proposal No. 1 now adopted, proposal No. 10th@item: inlistbox There is a vote on proposal No. 11, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests that the first sentence of the second paragraph of Article 9-11 be waived if the person caring for the child is unable to work while the child is supervised by others because he or she has supervised and cared for the child at night and thus needs rest, or it is necessary to be in a state of readiness.’ The President has reason to believe that the proposal will now be unanimous.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e9280	It's going to be over X. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e9294	The vote will take place at point 1 of XXI. The Labour Party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e9308	It shall be voted on above I to IX, XI to XX and points 2 and 3 of XXI.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e9319	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e9329	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e9435	The first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 7 shall be deleted. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e9449	The rest of I and II are voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e9459	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e9469	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e9479	Case No. 9–14 are the second time legal proceedings and concern legislative decisions 12 to 17 inclusive. There is no proposal for a comment, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-10.ana.ud21e9535	As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
