ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-25.ana.ud256e43	Honourable co-representatives! Former coroner Harald Deletebø passed away on 27 May, 96 years old. He was a member of the Parliament's Judicial Committee from 1973 to 1977. Lattebø was the parliamentary leader of the large-scale group from 1975 to 1977. He was also president of ALP Hordaland from 1973 to 1975. Anders Langes Parti was the forerunner of what we know today as the Progress Party, and the work carried out by Deleteebø in the party has played a major role in the development of the Progress Party. After he and his party went to a election defeat in 1977, he started to build the party organisation, and Deletebø was active in building up the Hordaland Progress Party. Lattebø was the group leader of the Vorskrittspartiet in Hordaland County from 1983 to 1987 and a member of the Stord Municipality Board from 1979 to 1983. Harald Lagetebø had artium from Rogaland National Gymnas from 1941, pedagogical seminar from 1944 and degree of cand.real. from the University of Oslo from 1946. He was lecturer at St. Sithun's school in Stavanger from 1946 to 1947, lecturer at Haugesund's municipal high school from 1947 to 1959, and principal at Stord Gymnas from 1959 to 1989. Through his work at many levels, Deletebø was an important co-worker for the Advance Party. A long life of political activity is now over. We're at peace with Harald Deletebø's memory.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-25.ana.ud256e62	The request to extend the convening of the meeting of the alternate representative of the Nordland County, Karianne Bøkestad Andreassen, is submitted by the Central Party Group to take effect until Friday 2 November under the leave of the representative, Siv Mossleth, from 1 October to 2 November. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Three permit applications are available: from the representative of Tina Bru on parental leave from 23 October to 17 June from the Central Party Group on the Permit of the Representative, Siv Mossleth, from 3 November to 8 November to take part in the United States Congressional elections as an observer of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe [[OSSE]] by Mr Fredric Holen Bjørdal, on parental leave from 7 November to 9 November, On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the counties of More and Romesdal: Tove Lise Torve 7-8. November For Nordland County: Kari Anne Bøkestad Andreassen 3-8. November For Rogaland County: Aase Simonsen October 23-17. June
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-25.ana.ud256e108	Aase Simonsen is present and will take the seat. The representative, Mr Grøvan, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-25.ana.ud256e115	On behalf of the representatives of Steinar Reiten, Olaug V. Bollestad, Tore Storehaug and myself, I am delighted to propose a better safety at sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-25.ana.ud256e120	The representative of Arild Grande will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-25.ana.ud256e125	On behalf of the representatives of Hadia Tajik, Lise Christoffersen, Leif Sande and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on the average calculation of working time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-25.ana.ud256e131	The representative, Ruth Grung, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-25.ana.ud256e136	On behalf of Åsunn Lyngedal, Jorod Asphjell, Cecilie Myrseth, Arild Grande and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on the timing of breeding permits.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-25.ana.ud256e141	The representative, Sverre Myrli, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-25.ana.ud256e146	On behalf of the representatives of Ingarill Olsen, Øystein Langholm Hansen, Kirsti Leirtrø and myself, I would like to make proposals to investigate road pricing to compensate for today's tolls and other operating car charges.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-25.ana.ud256e151	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-25.ana.ud256e169	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-25.ana.ud256e178	It is good that today we have a case for treatment in Stortinget about the aftermath of the drought crisis this summer. Many people are active in the industry, depending on the way in which the failed crops can be replaced, and therefore the Committee has stressed the urgency of this matter. It has also been very good for the Committee that we could call for a hearing quickly and get input from relevant organisations and institutions in such a short time. The issue today is essentially important because it alerts us about a time when climate change and a more extreme weather will affect our business, jobs and security. From climate scientists Carlo Aall it was earlier in the autumn that several climate scientists saw it coming in 2080, already. That is why it is very good that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food had a dialogue with the industry during the summer, because we know that it will require of us as elected representatives of the Grand Duchy and of the government and the authorities a far greater attention on how the problems of both drought and flood must be managed continuously and, not least, prevented. The Committee today refers to the additional agreement to the agricultural agreement between the State and the Norwegian Bondelag and Norwegian Bonde and Small User Teams concluded on 30 August 2018. The Committee considers it important that this should clarify that the State would provide fresh resources to remedy the situation. The Committee notes that the supplementary agreement is both an additional agreement and a renegotiation of the current agricultural agreement, and that the parties agree to grant a one-off payment of grants for roughage and a one-off payment of area subsidies for vegetables in 2018. The Committee considers that the drought summer of 2018 shows the importance of agriculture and food production throughout the country. In the case of growth failure in one part of Norway, for example: As it was in the East this summer, an important part of the overall security and preparedness of people in our country is that we can have food production in other parts of Norway. This summer, for example, there was better growth conditions in North Norway, and from both common sense and climate statistics, we know that, among other things. in the West, the same types of droughts as we experienced in the East this summer. This experience also shows the importance of the use of grazing resources as part of Norwegian food production on Norwegian resources. Pasturage contributes positively to animal welfare, biodiversity and carbon bonding. Harvesting of grazing resources will therefore enhance food security and self-sufficiency in the coming years. So briefly to some of the Workers' Party's comments in the setting where we stand with other parties: we show together with the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party that this underlines the importance of now implementing measures to increase the degree of self-sufficiency. Not least, this is illustrated by the risk we are now experiencing in Norway of exceptional plant and animal infection as a result of exceptional feed imports. One of the highest qualities of Norwegian agriculture is top health for both animals and plants, which in turn provide good health for people. We think it is important to call about that. This is what our proposals have been put forward in the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-25.ana.ud256e195	The representative of Nils Kristen Sandrøen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-25.ana.ud256e200	The budget of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food as a result of the drought in the summer and the additional agreement between the State and the agricultural organisations is currently being examined. The growing season 2018 was marked by very low rainfall and high temperatures. The drought caused great damage and the most extensive crop failure in a very long time. It was bad to see brown-panned soils and strong to meet worried farmers who did not know whether they had food for their animals to winter. Visits to farms in the South and in Rogaland during the summer made a strong impression. But it was also very pleasant to meet farmers who stood together, helped each other, took special responsibility for the young people and worked well for their own organisations. The government had good dialogue with industry throughout the drought period and continued to take action. The intention was as far as possible to avoid slaughter, especially by dams. A number of adaptations and clarifications were made as to how the legislation was to be implemented: Customs duties on imports of high and straw were set at zero with effect from 13 July 2018. The advance payment for crop damage was increased from 50 to 70 p.m., and a rapid procedure was called for in public agencies. Food surveillance was asked to give priority to the monitoring of feed imports and their placing on the market. The Parties also agreed on an administrative review of the crop damage regime and on the need to build up stocks of cereal seed. Both the Council of State and the Prime Minister should be commended for having followed the situation closely. The Norwegian Bondelag also writes in its input to the hearing in the Committee: «In the summer we have had a continuous and good dialogue with the government. We will give tribute to the grip they did, such as the possibilities of harvesting cereals for green fodder and the legislation on production subsidies. We would also like to congratulate the Prime Minister on her positive acceptance of our invitation to address the drought situation on the farm visit of a drought-stricken farmer." The industry itself, and the agricultural organisations, also took a number of measures to remedy the situation. Among other things, established website for the dissemination of roughage, import was initiated, cereal farmers were invited to care for the straw, and increased advice was launched to adapt feeding to feed availability. Many of the measures that were implemented were aimed at avoiding extensive slaughtering and reducing production capacity, and I am pleased that feedback from the industry is that the measures functioned as intended. Imports of feed have led to concerns that we should catch up with animal diseases we do not have in this country. Since the 1990s, Norway has had an active monitoring of both animal health, fish health, feed safety and food safety. Only in the field of animal health do we have more than 20 different monitoring programmes today. However, an overall committee will ask the government to return to the Storting with an updated plan on how good animal and plant health should not be weakened over a longer period of time as a result of the risk of contamination due to feed imports. The government has assessed the emergency storage of food grain several times in the period 2013-2017 at the request of the Stortinget and concluded that this has not been a targeted measure to strengthen Norwegian food security. On the basis of a proposal from the Central Party, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food will review and present a case to the Stortinget during 2019. And there are some relationships, including: worsening growth conditions due to climate change, which may result in both an increase in the price level of food grain and a higher price risk in the long term. The Ministry will have increased attention to these conditions in the future and monitor the risk of international shortages of cereals and feed raw materials. The extent of the drought, both duration in time and geographical distribution, has a significant economic impact on farmers. The compensation for crop damage is estimated to be over 1 billion. kr, and the agreement concluded between the State and the organisations resulted in an agreement with a framework of 525 million. kr. But I'm glad that the government and agriculture together managed to deal with an extraordinary situation in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-25.ana.ud256e240	It's been a tough summer for the country's food producers. During the summer I talked to many farmers throughout the country and also had close contact with the agricultural organisations. During July, I received visits from farmers in Eastfold, Hedmark, Agder and Rogaland. It made the impression to be out on the ground. But the summer has shown the strength of agriculture and the Norwegian agricultural model. One is well-organized, one has strong actors, one has solidarity arrangements, one has an agriculture all over the country. So I think the summer has made the Progress Party and the Right's agricultural policy, as he was described in the agricultural report, also Turkish. We need a well-regulated and strong agriculture. But it was not obvious that we were going to have a crisis package. I should like to be like what the representative Foss did – she might have used a little big words – give credit to the government for handling the first phase and managing the organisational measures that were implemented. They came quickly, they were necessary, and they had full political support. What I didn't appreciate was that when the opposition made further recordings that we had received from various actors, we felt to some extent that these were ridiculed by the then Minister of Agriculture. On August 8, a message came. It was the day when Erna Solberg was going to visit the garden, when Jon Georg Dale, the late Minister of Agriculture, was out and said no to the supplementary agreement, no to the crisis package. Let me site myself – in all modesty – from NRK 8 August: ‘The government’s no is very provocative. This is contrary to the signals that Sp, Ap, SV and KrF have given during the summer. These lots shall constitute a majority of the Stortinget.’.» I choose to believe that the obvious pressure from the opposition helped the government bend off, and also that agriculture had a point in the main agreement that they could point to. The contract signed is far from perfect. The economic loss for agriculture is significantly greater than that which has been compensated. In retrospect, one might also think about the device that was made, but I think that the farmer leader Bartnes said it quite well in his hearing. I don't think the quote exactly, but he said that one did what one thought was best at the time that one set and negotiated. That's very wise. I also think that one was able to get a device to prevent the most negative effects of the Turk. It has been quite a significant feed import this summer. Feed has been imported from countries from which the Authority itself derives that feed is imported from, for example: due to African swine fever. Then we need a surveillance program to supervise, so that we can quickly detect any outbreaks of disease, and that we can manage to maintain the strong and good animal health that we have in Norway. There I disagree a little about what the Christian People's Party is willing to do in the setting. They are not currently part of the monitoring program, but show that this is a matter for the 2019 government budget. I think this is so urgent that it should be clarified in connection with the processing of this proposition, so that the money would have been paid in the year's budget, and that one must not wait until next year to possibly get started. Two Red proposals have been submitted. It is a proposal to which the intention can be fully shared. There are suggestions we have chosen not to insert into your configuration. For the Central Party, we will first listen to Red's reasoning for the proposals and consider what these proposals will give in addition to what will already be followed by the follow-up to the crisis package that the majority of people have pointed to in the option - and in addition to the proposals that the minority have in the option. Finally, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for handling this matter quickly. It is important that we get a decision today, so that payments are not affected by the down payment process.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-25.ana.ud256e266	First, I would like to join those who have said that it was good that the parties were involved in this matter. This is the first debate of the new Minister of Agriculture, so I want him to welcome him to the first row in the Chamber and give him a tip: that's choosing what to do with politics, and what to try to find broad agreement about. I mean, there's no reason to let ideological dividing lines go in the situation we're in right now. This is a crisis situation for agriculture, and we have to try to do what we can, both in order to prevent as much as we can, so that we don't end up in the same situation again, by having good arrangements if the weather has great negative consequences for agriculture and not least, if the crisis arises and we have done something we just had to do, that we have good systems to deal with it afterwards. It's when I think it's a little strange that it's not possible to get multiples for the three minority proposals in the configuration, which are just about what it shouldn't be about, which I think is a misunderstanding to think about. Proposal No. 1 concerns crop compensation schemes. This year's drought showed that the system is not adapted to the weather forecast we saw this year. It has had great economic consequences. We don't have a system today to deal with the kind of crises we're going to end up in this year. So we can't, no matter what political deflectment, let an ever more erratic weather get a random look, which makes one take use and land out of operation because we have too bad plans. It's a very sub-optimal solution -- to say it like that -- for absolutely every party, either a sit and count money in the Ministry of Finance, or a job with the Earth. The same applies to the proposal for a climate fund. The summer this year showed how bad a global temperature rise of barely one degree since pre-industrial time can be, what it can do to agriculture, and the extreme outcomes it can give. So it should be in the absolute interest of everyone to create schemes and models that allow one to invest both in climate change and not least in climate adaptation, which means that one as a society does not have to make large investments when the damage occurs. Why shouldn't a job be started to find a model of how farmers can invest in climate change and adaptation? I don't get it. It is open to all, both socio-economically and in order to adapt agriculture to the new era. The last proposal concerns monitoring. Unfortunately, we have to import feed from countries from which we should not have imported feed, in a crisis situation. It's because today we don't have an overview of the grass reserve that we have around the whole country, and that we could have used. We don't have a system for that. But when we have then imported this feed as a nudist measure, knowing that we can then import diseases into Norwegian agriculture, we should at least have an enhanced monitoring program to meet it. If not, we just have to build on the existing models in the extraordinary situation we're in. I think it's quite obvious that we have to follow extra carefully here. That's why I think this is also a proposal we should have got multiples for. Finally, this case shows very clearly that we are going into a time when we should perhaps ask the government for a separate climate change adaptation message for agriculture, where one tries to see this in context. One can see how one can prevent us from getting the biggest and worst results in Norwegian agriculture, how agriculture can contribute to climate change, that it is not just a transport, a socket and an industry that is responsible, but that agriculture also contributes to this, and that one has models of how farmers can invest in these measures, that we have harmful mechanisms that are suited to much more extreme outcomes, and finally that we have systems that monitor if anything goes wrong, so that we do not introduce diseases in Norwegian agriculture that can cause great damage over a very long period of time, with huge costs for farmers and society.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-25.ana.ud256e281	I want to begin by expressing sympathy with the many farmers, gardeners and family members who were rammed by the drought this summer. It was dramatic to follow their fight to rock their crops. At the same time, it warms up to see how colleagues and others from all over the country — for example. TINE, banks and very common people – came to help with food, water, loans and money. This is the hard-working thing that we often do in Norway that we're proud of, and I think we should be. We should also be proud that we have farmers who do the best out of a difficult situation, and for whom we are now to be allowed to be with and limit at least the financial challenges. The summer we've got behind us, it's been very special. Many might remember it as a super summer with sun and high bath temperatures, but the abnormally high temperatures brought with them droughts and forest fires. It was a turn there, it was known as turning on the television newshand was synonymous with getting reporters from new areas that were in fire, or new brownish-fields of relays and fields. It was bad to look at and certainly even worse to stand in. No, the cough came, and he brought dramatic whistles. The area that is known to be too low was suddenly flooded. Vibe and Luster were framed by flutters last week. In addition to all the other injuries, small user layers can tell that there were over 1,000 roundballs. So after a summer with poor yield and little food for winter, they have got a further deterioration by destroying these high-balls. One should be careful to take individual events into income for larger trends, but it is not possible that we have to anticipate a climate that is becoming more lost, wetter and warmer. Then we will probably see even more of what we call 'extreme weather' today, but we might have to call 'normal weather' tomorrow. We must meet on two fronts: prevention and protection. We need to change our plans to increase the height of precipitation, greater temperature fluctuations and more storms. We need to be smooth and scrambled at a greater rate than before. We need to dimension drainage to avoid more water, faster. And we still need to ensure active agriculture across the country. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food has been asked to reconsider Norway’s establishment of a stock of cereals. Left means that if – if! – one at all to establish new stocks of food grain, so the storage must be very decentralised. We can't put all the eggs in one basket, to use an agricultural metaphor. It would be too risky to establish large central warehouses that have been attacked and injured both by people who do not want us well, and from, for example, by people who do not want us well. fire or vermin or from other accidents. I'd like to come back with a little bit of history. In 1778 a royal resolution came to establish the so-called "congregation magazine for cereals". Great Norwegian lexicon told that the first building magazine was built in Ulvik in Hardanger in 1775. In 1833 there was a total of 250 such magazines. From the middle of the 1830s, one started to put them down. The government has delivered well to agriculture. In addition, one of the last few years has experienced that the Left in the government is also making a positive difference here. The left has sympathy for the loose proposals from Red, but they have been raised in many ways. I have been referred from the hearings in the nutrition committee that the trade union team was very satisfied with the rapid response from the government when the drought struck. I hope they and the farmers will be satisfied that the Stortinget now decides on replacements so quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-25.ana.ud256e306	In Norway and large parts of Europe, we have left behind one of the hottest and driest summers in over a hundred years. For many, the holiday summer of this time was late in the sun, but for the industry that supplies us with the most important basic food, the food we eat, in the summer of 2018 was an increasing nightmare from week to week. For those who are not themselves peasants, it is probably difficult to fully understand the situation: hard work to recover what could be raised by crop, in combination with an increasing fear that a massive crop failure would lead to payment problems and bankruptcy. There were sleepless nights, despair and desperation for many farmers this summer. But also for us who were not hit in this way, there is good reason to sleep worse at night. The summer of 2018 was not a single extreme climate event. It merges into a number of catastrophic weather phenomena that are coming more and more frequently. As you can see, it's part of the pattern that the harvest has been characterized by torrential rains and streaming cords, with floods and races in many places. Farmers who experienced severe crop failure due to August drought are struggling to get the manure to watered down on land before the deadline of 1 November. The climate is changing faster than anyone would have thought a few decades ago. It requires that we think about new things together and prepare ourselves for the challenges that agriculture faces in the decades ahead. During the summer and early harvest, considerable efforts were made by farmers’ organisations, farmers’ cooperatives and the state to counteract the effects of the drought. We in the Christian People's Party want to give honor to the parties that contributed to effective crisis response. I noted with satisfaction that there was ongoing contact between the organisations and the Minister for Agriculture and Food, and that the challenges were dealt with in the right order: first an overall effort to save what could be saved by cropping, and, in addition, to facilitate the best possible increase in feed imports, while increasing the advance payments for crop damage and faster processing, then calculating the overall amount of crop damage cost estimates and finally the requirements of the Agriculture Negotiation Committee on an additional agreement to the Agriculture Agreement in accordance with the provisions of the Main Agreement on Agriculture. Just because of the good dialogue between the peasant organizations and the state and the good order of priorities to which the parties joined together, we found it right in the Christian People's Party to await political initiatives. We saw that it could interfere with the good cooperation that was established to resolve the crisis. However, when the requirement for an additional agreement was made in accordance with the main agreement, the Christian People's Party was quick to signal the following two points: Firstly, we refused to count increased payments over the crop damage scheme as part of the crisis package. All persons with legitimate claims for crop damage shall be covered by their losses under the applicable regime. Increased expenditure on the crop damage scheme is therefore a purely balancing issue. Secondly, the requirements of the Agriculture Negotiating Committee in the case of a lump sum payment of livestock subsidies and vegetable area, an increase in the rate of compensation for roughage and an increase in the ceiling on the crop damage scheme could not be financed under the agricultural agreement. We therefore signaled that fresh funds had to be put on the table to meet the challenges facing agriculture. It was therefore also clear that there was a majority in favour of it on Stortinget, which in turn provided a good starting point for the negotiations leading to an agreement between the parties on 30 August. Like the other opposition parties, however, we believe that the drought summer 2018 requires action in addition to providing a crisis package for the farmers who were hit hardest. We feel it is urgent to start work on establishing national stockpiles of cereals, and we expect the government to promote a case on that for the Stortinget in spring 2019, in line with Decision No. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Christian People's Party also believes that it is problematic that the government does not present a possible model for a climate fund for agriculture in the context of the presentation of the state budget when the Stortinget has so clearly stated that it should. We also believe that a monitoring programme for animal health should be established after imports of feed from countries with serious animal diseases. The Christian People's Party will come back to both of these matters in connection with the work on the 2019 government budget. With regard to the device of the crop damage scheme, we believe that there is reason to consider whether the scheme should be reinforced. However, we believe that this is an issue that needs to be raised as part of the agricultural negotiations next year, and that the parties jointly find good solutions. We will follow that part of the negotiations closely. The Christian People's Party will not vote in favour of the proposals of the minority in this matter, for reasons that I have stated, and we will not support the resolves of the Red.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-25.ana.ud256e331	This summer has been a wake-up call for all of us, I think. While some of us have just gone beyond the private budget of ice cream, for others, health and livelihood have gone free. Large parts of Norwegian agriculture were severely affected by the drought during the summer. The worst drought in over a hundred years has a huge impact on Norwegian agriculture. The expected total loss for the industry is over 5 billion. kr. Forecasts show that payments from the crop damage scheme will exceed 1.3 billion. kr. It is good that we have arrangements to cover some of the impacts of climate change, but the gap between the fresh funds provided in this supplementary agreement and the expected total losses for the industry are too large. In order to ensure sound Norwegian agriculture throughout the country for the future, we need to prepare for the consequences of climate change – not just react in retrospect. Red supports the proposals of the minority in the Committee. A climate fund is an important part of the road towards robust agriculture in the face of climate change. Norway needs every farmer and every farm in the future to ensure food production in the future. Extreme weather at both ends of the scale becomes the new normal, whether hail or frost damage to fruit and vegetables, floods or droughts. An climate fund must equip agriculture to produce food with great climate change through grants to build common irrigation facilities for dry summers and increased subsidies to mine wet summers. We must preserve and restore ants, which are important water regulators for both dry and wet years. We have to let rivers run in arcs and not be straightened out and put in pipes, so that they can spread the water out and slow down the speed of the water when the floods arrive. There is also a need for more research into the functioning of measures and for action to be taken before the crises occur. We also need to use the important grazing resources across the country, so that they exist when crises occur, and maintain a diversity in the structure of farms, so that we have small and large farms across the country that can exploit the resources where they exist. Red promotes two solutions to the vote. Firstly, we believe that all imported feed, including from EU countries, should be controlled and approved by the Food Safety Authority before further distribution. It's not like that today. Climate change brings not only extreme weather situations but also an increased risk of alien species and diseases. When feed is imported from both EU countries and others, we risk infecting a relatively disease-free Norwegian agriculture with fatal diseases, such as African swine fever, canine disease, paratuberculosis, scrapie and plant diseases caused by foreign mushrooms. Other alien organisms can also be included in the feed and create hitherto unknown problems in Norwegian agriculture and Norwegian nature. Secondly, we suggest that it is necessary to determine whether it is possible to use actual crops as a basis for calculating crop damage in roughage production, in order to ensure that producers with crops above the normal crop in the municipality receive sufficient compensation for loss. As the scheme operates today, the farmers who base their livestock on crops that are larger than the normal crop in the municipality. They are punished for being good producers. In a loss wound, as we've seen this year, they'll be left with compensation for much less than they should have produced, and thus have trouble getting enough food for their animals. I would also like to stress that both of these solutions are supported by the trade unions. The most important thing we can do now is to ensure that agriculture in Norway continues to produce food at a time of great climate change. We need to produce more on Norwegian resources and less on non-residents, and we need to ensure that agriculture is strong throughout the country. We do that through good preparation for what may happen, and not just through actions after the disaster.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-25.ana.ud256e350	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-25.ana.ud256e356	The exceptional drought and the heat of the 2018 growing season posed significant challenges for agriculture. The Ministry stressed the need to maintain continuous and good contact with industry and to rapidly implement measures that could help to remedy the situation. By ensuring that what could be done was done quickly, we sought to contribute to good crisis management. It was important to avoid panic attacks for all those who were affected. The main objectives of the measures were to increase access to roughage, so that the safety of access to feed was as high as possible. This was done by opening up imports and streamlining national legislation, which in this difficult situation made it easier for farmers to take initiatives to improve feed availability. For example, some poor cereals were turned into feed, and after crops were sown without any deduction from the replacement. There is also good reason to honor both the farmers who stood up for each other in a difficult situation, and the organisations that were solution-oriented and took important initiatives. Among other things, done much to strengthen the dissemination of feed from those who had it available to those who needed it. In particular, the straw dew in the cereal regions will be of great importance during winter. The additional agreement currently under consideration is both an additional agreement and a renegotiation of the existing agricultural agreement. It provides targeted exceptional compensation to those who are hardest hit by the drought. But I would like to remind you that the agricultural agreement as it is designed contains a unique and good crop damage scheme. I am pleased that Norway's Bondelag also underlined this in the hearing. The crop damage scheme could compensate well over 1 billion. kr in fresh means. As early as 23 July, the Minister for Agriculture started a review of the crop damage scheme. We will now consider whether there is a need to continue the review in order to look at possible improvements and better targeting in given situations. The additional agreement comes because the situation this year was totally exceptional and we were concerned about the impact on production capacity in the future. As of now, everything that has been done seems to contribute significantly to reducing potential negative impacts. The drought this summer has made it necessary for many to buy roughage. The purchase of roughage from other countries could always pose a risk of introducing undesirable agents and plants. Together with the feed industry, the Veterinary Institute and the Food Authority, the livestock industry has developed a guide for both purchasers and importers of roughage. I, like the committee, am committed to maintaining the good disease situation we have in Norway. Food surveillance continuously assesses the animal diseases needed to monitor. In the wake of the drought, we also look at the exchange of experience and, where appropriate, cooperation under the Nordic regime. This applies to both the management of the risk of infection from the importation of roughage and the storage of emergency feed. The 2018 production season has shown that food production is vulnerable to varying weather conditions. Extreme weather — whether it is drought or heavy rainfall in a short period of time — creates challenges for which there is every reason to go through the plans to reduce the impact. It shows, among other things: the importance of having an agricultural holding throughout the country, contributing to the spread of risk, good drainage status and the possibility of irrigation. At the same time, good cooperation between industry and administrations will continue to be important in order to manage effectively situations that may arise. I want to thank the Committee for dealing with this matter quickly, because it is important – there are many people who need money, and then it is important to make a decision so that they can get them paid out. It is also important to stress that there are many around, in municipalities, county councillors, etc., who do a great job to ensure that the money will come and be paid before the end of the year. Furthermore, it is important to point out from this pulpit that there are many who have made a great effort during the crisis and when it was at worst, but also that there are now many who are making a great effort to ensure that the funds are paid out to those who were hit by the drought this summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-25.ana.ud256e373	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-25.ana.ud256e378	I would like to welcome the new Minister of Agriculture to Stortinget. It is a very important area to be managed by the new Minister of Agriculture, not least in the years to come. What I'm asking is whether the new Minister of Agriculture of the Progress Party takes some fundamental lessons from this summer of drought. The two pastors, market librarians Sylvi Listhaug and Jon Georg Dale, have fronted a policy that is entirely in conflict with the agricultural majority and the practical reality we are going to live in the next few years. Among other things, the former Minister of Agriculture said that we could not have cereals storage, because we did not know what to store for. It's a complete misunderstanding of how insurance really works. We do not insure our car because we know exactly what collision we are going into – no, it is about reducing uncertainty. The question is: will the new Minister of Agriculture of the Progress Party move away from market liberalism and support the practical agricultural policy of the majority of the agricultural population on the Grand Duchy?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-25.ana.ud256e387	I think the representative knows well that the Minister of Agriculture and Food comes from the Progress Party, but he also knows very well that it is the government's policy on agriculture and food, of course, that the Minister of Agriculture and Food will ensure that it is implemented. I think the government has a good policy. I also believe that this summer – and the active action of my predecessor, Jon Georg Dale, in the context of the precarious situation in which very many people came up in agriculture – shows that they are concerned about finding solutions when things happen. You'll find the right solutions. And that's the way that the crop damage scheme, the supplementary proposition of 525 million. NOK, of which 300 are fresh, new millions, making it possible to get up to $1.6 billion. kr in connection with what happened during the summer. This shows that you really do and that this government is taking it seriously. I'm concerned that we're going to have an agriculture across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-25.ana.ud256e392	The common denominator of the three right parties in the government is market liberalism. The most powerful part – and the influence on these environments – is Civita, and Mats Church birchland from the Right and just liberalistic Civita went out in the daily newspaper this summer and compared the drought with ice cream sales and sales of long-range and alpine equipment. It's very worrying that the most bastant comments come from the theoretical team when we talk about a biological industry. It takes three years to produce a new dairy cow, from insemination to the start of milk production. That is why this is a fundamental ideological debate. The majority of farmers at Stortinget want a completely different policy course, and it was therefore also worrying that former Minister of Agriculture, Jon Georg Dale, tried to refuse to provide fresh funds. I have to ask the Minister of Agriculture: is the new Minister of Agriculture happy that fresh funds were finally made available in the drought proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-25.ana.ud256e403	I believe that the representative has the wrong starting point when he claims that my predecessor would not have this in place. In fact, he was the one who, together with the organisations, made sure that an agreement was put in place – yes, that there was actually agreement on this agreement, the supplementary agreement, and also agreement on the agricultural agreement with the organisations. I think that is good, and it shows that this government is taking agriculture seriously. We are committed to ensuring that we have an agricultural policy across the country, and we are committed to finding good solutions. And then I actually also mean that it's possible to find good solutions where this way of doing things can be very good. We see that it works very well in very many other areas. It's just to refer to Telenor, which is a great example from the time they were a monopolist, until there was competition. You can see that things have changed, and I think customers are much better off with the situation as it is now, than it was when Telenor was a monopoly company.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-25.ana.ud256e410	I am pleased that the Council of State determines that he is not the Council of State with the Progress Party's policy, but with the government's policy. I hope he can confirm that in those cases where there is a conflict between the government's policies and the policies of the Stortinget, the Stortinget is its first policy. In the setting, the size has underlined the importance of following up rapidly on the decision on national stockpiles of cereals. A reference to the decision, which states that one should have a separate case for the Storting during 2019 on the establishment of national emergency stocks of cereals. When the Storting thus underlines the importance of following this up quickly, my question is to the Council of State: Will we get this case in the spring of 2019, so that the Storting may be allowed to finish it in 2019, and preferably before the summer?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-25.ana.ud256e417	I am pleased with the policy that the Progress Party and the Government have put together, and with what is in the agreement, which is very good. The funny thing is that it's this government that's stopped a development in how many uses are put down. Now it's actually optimism, it's will out there to bet, and it's investing 8.5 billion. kr. As regards the storage of food grain, it has been said clearly and clearly that the matter will come in the course of 2019, and it will come in the course of 2019. Then I understand that the representative Pollestad wants it to come even faster. But this has been assessed before, but we have said that we will take a new assessment, and it will come in 2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-25.ana.ud256e424	I thank you for your answer. It is most so that it could be tempting to allow the Minister of Agriculture to be the Minister of Agriculture of the Progress Party his policy for a few weeks, and then got a look how nice it was. I think it would have triggered massive protests from a mass industry and a mass food industry. The Committee also writes: ‘The majority believe that this year’s droughts indicate that cereal preparedness should also be strengthened.’ This is a very important point, and then my question is, what time will we have to strengthen seed preparedness, and how will that happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-25.ana.ud256e436	These are things that have been taken up, and you're looking at whether you're going to do it on seeds, so here's what's going to happen – we're working on this right now. We're going through this. Then I want to point out that these are important discussions, and discussions that we are also going to have with the agricultural organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-25.ana.ud256e443	It is clear that what underpins all agricultural policies to be pursued in this country is what is in the position of the Stortingen to the agricultural message. There should be no doubt about it. The situation we're in is new. It's completely new, what we're still experiencing right now. Who knows what new surprising world situation with dramatic consequences we can end up in? Regardless of political demise, a new situation needs to be considered. In my post I indicated that it might be time to start working on a climate change adaptation message. Or you could have a track, like you're dealing with the agricultural problems with the parties. My question is, what new is the Council of State thinking about the situation we're in?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-25.ana.ud256e451	In the agricultural agreements that have been concluded in recent years, climate and environmental challenges lie as important premises and as a matter of concern. Among other things, there is drainage and other types of climate action to invest and meet the climate change that comes. Much is done in research and development to see how to cope with climate change in the future. There is already a great deal of work to be done in this area, and it is made up of funds that can be used just to meet this. I have also said that, for example, in the next round, in connection with the agricultural sector. some of the points made by the Committee and others in the field of crop damage schemes, etc., are something to be looked forward to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-25.ana.ud256e456	The Christian People's Party is part of the bulk of the population who have asked for a case on the emergency storage of cereals. One of the most important reasons why we think it's so important is global solidarity. In the future with a changing climate and an increasing population, we will have to assume that acute food crises can arise, among other things. lack of cereals. We read in a comment from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food in this year's budget setting that one sees that this can be solved through trade on the world market. Does the Council of State feel comfortable with a policy of buying food out of the mouth of poor people who do not have the same purchasing power as we do in Norway in such a situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-25.ana.ud256e461	The government has said – and it follows, of course, what the majority of Storting has decided – that we will get a case back to Stortinget in 2019. It's quite possible to act internationally, but we've said that we're going back to the Storting in this regard. Several investigations have been carried out that have been contrary to the use of that measure, as it is not considered to have the best effect. So now we're going to do what the Storting asked us to do. We will have a new investigation carried out, just to see if you will review it in 2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-25.ana.ud256e466	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-25.ana.ud256e473	In the post, the representative of Moxnes spoke about ice cream and the purchase of ice cream. This is a very good example of how strong and good the Norwegian agricultural model is. And when Moxnes and others have a lot of ice cream a dry summer: one of Norway's largest ice cream producers, Diploma Is, is owned by Norwegian farmers. Norwegian farmers are on the owner's side of Diploma Is – they own Diploma Is through TINE – left over by an extraordinary ice-cream hall bid for one to stand on, and it reduces the consequences of drought. This is a very good example of how the Norwegian agricultural model makes Norwegian farmers less vulnerable. But it was not primarily to talk about ice cream that I asked for the word. I would like to comment on the two proposals from Red, first proposal No. 4, which I think is well taken care of by the review of crop damage schemes proposed by a minority in proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox What is contained in the Red proposal is definitely something that should be included in such a review. So I don't see any direct need to support proposal No. 4, even though I fully support the intention in it. In the case of proposal No: 5, I want to say that I think it's far more important to set up a monitoring program. I would like to hear the Council of State's assessment of proposal No. 5th@item: inlistbox For if one is to start controlling all imported feed, to which the centre batch is initially positive, there is a question of how this is compared with the EEA Agreement, unfortunately, and how this is purely practical, for a large part of the feed has already been imported and distributed. How can a person do so, and how important is this in the context of a desire to introduce a monitoring programme for animal health in relation to imported feed? Before voting, the centre party will come back to how we put ourselves to proposal No. 5, which we support the intention of, but which we see as having certain practical aspects that are demanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-25.ana.ud256e482	The crucial thing now is that we together at Stortinget take lessons from the matter we are dealing with today, and strengthen Norwegian agriculture for a time of more rainfall, floods and possible droughts. It is our common task to provide security for people in our country, and in the face of climate change, food production in the whole world is going to be one of the biggest problems for the security of people, both in Norway and in other countries. Among other things, we know that much of the world's grain production is in areas – whether in the United States, Brazil or Ukraine – that we can expect to experience temperature rises and drier weather. As of today, it is important that we who are elected to the Storting and should ensure that people throughout our country have a safe and better life in the future, know the seriousness of the matter we are dealing with today, and start preparing to strengthen the Norwegian agricultural policy – for security, but also to increase the value creation of the renewable natural resources we have in Norway. That's how we can provide a future where it's possible for young people who want food production as work to get into it, while at the same time having an agriculture that exploits natural resources in a forward-looking and sustainable way, with a practical approach, where we produce grain where possible, we use grass and grazing resources to produce milk and meat and have the greatest possible total value creation in Norway. That policy requires continuous improvement, strengthening and an eye to how our nature is affected by change. That's why it's important for posterity to remember what actually happened this summer. On the same day that the Minister of Agriculture and the Prime Minister went on a farm visit, former Minister of Agriculture Jon Georg Dale pushed out and said no, we have to wait, to see what the crops actually are like. The type of wait-and-see attitude is now out of time, now is action. As rapporteur of the case, I would like to conclude by stating that there is an error in the decision section of the amounts up to and including item 74. They're set $1,000 too low. There it shall be from 8 225 599 000 kroner and correspondingly higher at the last amount.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-25.ana.ud256e499	The representative Sandtrøen believed that the government and the former Council of State were just sitting still. In fact, I believe that you had a very active minister who was very on, just to get to grips and try to find good solutions as things turned up, and in good dialogue with the organizations. So I think it's a little bit special to have such an approach. So to this with the monitoring programme, since the representative Pollestad challenged a little bit on it and proposal No. 5 from Red. Then I want to say that the Food Authority is doing a very important and very good job on these things, and so we already have 20 monitoring programs that we are doing today. We have a good dialogue with the Food Authority, and the Food Authority has dialogue with other professional communities to see what to do. In order to find out that there is a need to do something further, we will probably have a good dialogue with the Food Safety Authority to follow it up. But as of now, we believe that we already have monitoring programmes, and we are following this closely. In addition, a guide has been developed, both for those who are going to buy and for those who are going to import feed into Norway, and provides good guidance on how to behave and how to behave when importing feed into Norway. As regards Red's proposal, No. 5: It will require quite a lot of resources, and I'm not sure if the food-benefit effect will be so great that it's where you want to spend so much of the resources for the Food Authority. You have good arrangements, and with the professional environments that are already there, I think we are doing this in a good way. As I said, we have good dialogue with regard to following up and securing this with infection, etc., which is important for us to prevent. We have very good quality in Norway and we will continue to have that. We are the best in the world at this, and at least as Minister of Agriculture and Food I want us to be, and therefore you closely follow up and have a very good dialogue with the Food Authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-25.ana.ud256e508	I must point out an important difference related to the theme wait-and-see: the government has got a lot of favor today, but it must also be possible to point out what was actually said. Because to the NRK on 8 August, former Minister of Agriculture and Food Jon Georg Dale said that we have to wait and see what the crops actually are like. So it was just to be lacking that the government can't stand to hear it. That's why it was very important that the agricultural majority at Stortinget was clear, because the whole matter we are dealing with today is a result of the need for fresh funds being won through. And there were just fresh funds that Jon Georg Dale said on August 8th that we should wait and see if we should have, so that's a pretty essential part of the whole thing and the debate today. Because if there had been no fresh means, there would have been no case here today. That's the whole point. Then it is that the Labour Party, like the Centre Party, will believe that the proposals that have come from the Red Party have been taken care of by comments, from majority and minority respectively, which we are already in. That is why we do not think it necessary to support those proposals, even if the intention is good.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-25.ana.ud256e517	Now it was a little bit like what I'm warning you at the introductory part, that there was a policy going on in this: the government won't be on the right side of the opposition because they're the opposition, and the members of the committee won't be on the right side of the committee, because they're not on the committee. Now, the starting point here is to find a solution to the situation that we're in. Just to get to some of the things Hoksrud has to do, that Norway is very good at monitoring, that that's enough, the system we have today. We have it from many quarters – this is a real concern, which came through the hearing, that the extraordinary situation with a level of imports from abroad that we have not seen before, from countries that are all a few that we should not import from in crisis situations, can have enormous consequences when it comes to disease. I think having an enhanced monitoring program in such a situation is quite obvious. Now the government hasn't thought about it, but when the Storting thinks about it, at least the government should win – yes, maybe there can be good thoughts from Stortinget too, to say it like that. When it comes to the last proposal from Red, that it requires very large resources, I think: this is an extraordinary import. If that's the way we're going to say that we're going to do an extraordinary import from the rest of the world, that we're not going to be prepared for an extraordinary situation, among other things. by mapping the huge grass resources we actually have in Norway, and looking at it as a reserve, in case we end up in such a crisis, if we are to build on the measures we did this time, with extensive imports from countries where there can be disease that can go hard on Norwegian agriculture — that's too bad, that's too bad. Hoksrud says this will be very resource-intensive – yes, but that's because we're not going to get there. We have to make sure to secure this feed itself. The ingredients we've imported today in power-feed, they're checked, they're under control, so this proposal only applies to the extraordinary feed imports that we've done in this situation. So I think that the first proposal for Red, which is about what one should consider in a statement, that one should look more specifically at some things, is quite within the scope of supporting from the committee's perspective. It's okay for SV, we're supporting it. And when it comes to the proposal to have better control over exceptional imports of feed: of course, it is part of the measures that we have to consider, and we also support that we do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-25.ana.ud256e532	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-25.ana.ud256e548	Today we have an interpellation in this room because the Central Party and the undersigned have a desire to discuss with the government what is wise to do about our preparedness, when so few receive emergency messages via DAB as is the case as of today. I have a hope that the Minister of Culture today does not choose to defend old politics she herself and others have stood for at an earlier time, but is ready to see that the status of radio readiness in the last part of 2018 is actually not as we all hoped at once. Because I've finally made it clear. I have leave from the NRK, where, among other things, I have leave. has worked part on radio, and has for years been celebrating Norway going over to DAB. I correctly questioned the large sums spent on DAB in the 2000s, when the content production – in contrast – got a big cut, but otherwise I became convinced that DAB was the future. In particular, my management in the NRK wanted DAB, along with the other two major players in Radio-Norway. The three stood together, and therefore I understand that in 2011 the vote in this Chamber was taken to move on to DAB. For several years after the decision, I thought it was a correct decision. I would like to have several channels to choose from and then for me a bunch of different editorial content and different musical genres with DAB – a real media diversity. But we haven't got it. The NRK’s DAB channels are delivering, but it is in my view a problem that there are only two foreign-owned players who control all the national commercial channels – and those channels are really not very different. It is part of the story that I personally hear a lot on commercial hit channels on DAB. It is perfect for me and my son in eight years to drive far – top mood – but the DAB signal falls out in between, even if I have a new car. It does that every time I commute to Oslo as well, and it's disappointed me. Shouldn't DAB be much better than FM? I'm not alone in that feeling. When I discovered this, and especially when I discovered how little all the others – just as dissatisfied – the listeners were listening to me, I became involved in this matter, along with many other centre parties who did not understand why the FM network should be turned off when it was on FM they got the signals best in, whether they were on the sea, on the cabin, on the commuter trip, on the ski clock or on the hunt. People didn't like being forced to buy DAB radio. That is why not enough of them did so, and we in the Centerpartiet therefore promoted a proposal in the autumn of 2016 that we should wait to turn off the FM network. The coverage was not good enough, and people had not largely crossed over to DAB. We didn't get a majority, but we got it right. People are still complaining about a lack of coverage, and the FM closure has unfortunately led to listening refugees. People turn their backs on radio – it's sad. The FM closure is the fault, because it is the only thing that distinguishes Norway from other countries that we have always compared to radio, like Sweden and Finland, where the numbers of listeners stay at the level we had in Norway before the closure: approx. 70 pst. And it is not useful to blame for competition from ‘streaming’ and podcasts for the Norwegian listener flight, because competition is as great in our neighbouring countries as it is with us in these areas. This summer was the worst. Then the total radio listening at its lowest side of the war was well under 50 p.m., and then I was worried. New listening patterns had emerged, including: Because people didn't like to force them on DAB. It's not lucky if it lasts. We in the Center Party thought that we have to stop this negative trend by offering the P1 on the FM network again, not least because P1 is our emergency channel. The authorities no longer reach sufficient recipients with important messages as long as the emergency messages are only on DAB. It's all of a sudden only half of us listening on the radio at all, and only half of our cars are equipped with DAB radio. In other words, it's too few. The fact that drivers and tourists in cars from abroad also do not have DAB, and the fact that the geographical coverage in particular is still not good enough, causes us to have a problem. P1 on the FM network again will ensure much greater reception of messages, because all DAB radios also have FM receivers. It also has all mobile phones, because the United Nations has actually asked for it for emergency reasons. On the other hand, the DAB signals are not received by mobile phones. It is FM and not DAB that is the standard beyond Norway’s borders. Around 220 countries are dominated by the FM — only Norway has shut down the FM network nationally. Previous suggestions that other countries would follow us in our innovative footsteps, disappear for every article written and every report made that the radio future is not DAB, but smart speakers and the Internet. DAB is a passe. Some countries, such as the United Kingdom, Denmark, Sweden, Germany and the Netherlands, have fully developed or well-developed DAB networks, but FM is preferred. Several of these countries have considered shutting down the FM network, but have abandoned it. They stick to both DAB and FM, just like we did for a little while. There was a golden age on the radio, you ask me – I loved it! There were many channels and coverage also in the mountains and throughout the family tour to the West. I think we should do it again – give the listeners what they want: both FM and DAB. With FM, we are also guaranteed an analogue network for national broadcasts, such as backup for digital DAB broadcasts, which are quite vulnerable. I have absolutely got the discussion about whether DAB is more robust than FM, among other things. on an emergency basis, when it comes to technical matters. Some believe that the strength of DAB is that other transmitters are not hit if one transmitter is switched off, while others believe that the signal can be received from different other FM transmitters, even if the nearest FM transmitter is switched off, is FM's strength. I'm not so concerned about that debate. Now we've built out DAB, and that's how good it is, given the technical and robustness. But as I said, it's also very vulnerable, because it's digital and easy to hack. Fortunately, we still have a lot of infrastructure left to mitigate that vulnerability by re-establishing the NRK's FM network. Norkring, a company that now makes its money on DAB, but that previously earned them on the FM and therefore owns most of the FM infrastructure, however, claimed this summer that it was hopeless to propose to get the radio broadcasts on the FM network again because they had sent so much of it to Malawi. Well, it turned out to be poor 14 little transmitters of a few thousand, and they belonged to the P4 network, not the NRK network. So that argument fell into fish. However, Norkring has, strangely enough, dismantled part of the relevant infrastructure, even though it has not been a year since the FM closure, so we have to be prepared to spend between 100 and 200 million. kr for investments if we go for the same preparedness as our neighbouring countries, with both DAB and FM. We can do it cheaper, too, by renting access to local radio transmitters. Anyway, I think we can afford this. Our total defense is on an all-hour low since the war, and the government must be tightened up. Unfortunately, it has been shown that they have a rather weak attitude to standby, even in the case of radio. For example, the government was: due to the fact that for six months after the last standby agreement between the NRK and the Local Radio Association expired in 2017, we did not have a new agreement in place. Unfortunately, this is entirely in line with how little government – for that matter the Stortinget – has, over time, focused on the preparedness perspective of the transition to DAB. The Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness now says that they did not actually have the opportunity to carry out a proper risk analysis of the impact on our preparedness by shutting down the FM network. They only did a very rapid rapid analysis, which was not based on their own, thorough studies. Yesterday, Minister of Defence Frank Bakke-Jensen also confirmed what I feared, that the Norwegian defence has never been involved in and evaluated, participated in hearings or expressed its opinion on the decision taken on the deployment of DAB and the closure of the FM network. Let me remind you that extensive risk analysis was carried out in Sweden, and there was a strong negative defence to shut down the FM network, which helped to ensure that Norway’s example of shutting down was not adopted. But in Norway, the defense is not even involved. Here a Ministry of Culture is responsible for preparedness. Then maybe it's not so strange that these days we're in danger of experiencing the radio signals disappearing because the great NATO exercise decides to use our DAB frequencies. It's the same thing that NATO and the Defense use. That might have been avoided. I understand that it is agreed that NATO will not do so, but already it turns out that agreements concluded with NATO this day are not working. There are forces disembarking without the Norwegian authorities knowing about it, I was told by a head of emergency at a county on Friday. So it's going to be exciting to see the next few months how wise it is to only have emergency messages nationally on the radio at the frequencies that can be quickly overrided by NATO. I hope it goes well, just as I hope that we can soon ensure that as many drivers as possible and the population are told otherwise when war, crisis or natural disasters arise in the future, or unfortunate situations, such as that a dam breaks down along a European road, or that large forest areas take fire at the same time – situations that occurred in Norway this summer. We all have to get ready. We need to get emergency messages on the FM network that reach everyone – not just populous areas, and not just those who can afford a DAB radio. So we recommend getting P1 on the FM-band again and then making it possible for smart speakers, broadband expansion and radio over the web – what now turns out to be really the radio of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-25.ana.ud256e588	I'm glad that the representative Sem-Jacobsen is addressing this, because there are a lot of things up in the public debate for the time being that aren't exactly very factual. I hope that here we will have a fact-based debate where you can discuss for or against DAB – it's a movement we've been through many times – but I have to go into some of the facts presented by Sem-Jacobsen. She claims, among other things, that preparedness is impaired as a result of reduced listening to radio, and that the defence allegedly uses the same frequency range as digital radio, and then I need to elaborate on this. It is also, I believe, unthinkable to claim that the information readiness has to do with listener development, because the authorities' information readiness is not just based on radio as a channel for important messages. Radio is still an important channel for reaching out to the population with important messages. At the same time, the importance of broadcasting audio and video has been reduced in the last 20 years, for the benefit of the Internet, mobile phones and after each smartphone. There is something the Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness and Civil Protection have taken on board, and they inform the population of alert tests, where they are also looking for information. It does not necessarily happen only through radio, but with other media and information channels, such as: TV, crisis information and social media. So the message ‘Important message – Listen on radio’ is not always the right one when we can actually reach everyone in a geographical area, for example. by SMS. Radio is still a channel to reach important messages. But the key to the preparedness is to ensure that the DAB network is developed in such a way that it acts as an emergency channel. DSB and Nkom have both assessed the DAB network as more technically robust than the FM network. First, population coverage is higher, for more people. Another important reason is that the DAB network has separate feed for each transmitter. In the FM network, the parts were built in chains. This means that the results of one transmitter could therefore mean that the transmitters down the chain actually fell out. Furthermore, the NRK has doubled the coverage of equipment at stations that sends with a coverage of more than 5000 people. In addition, those stations have back-up and back-up power. Transmitters with double coverage cover 90 pst. by the population. In addition, through its distribution agreements with Norkring, the NRK imposes stricter up-time requirements on the DAB network than was the case for the FM network. Finally, the road authorities can reach with emergency messages to all those listening to DAB radio in the car, regardless of the channel on which the receiver is set. All of the tunnels that had FM now have DAB. The response in the tunnels is thus improved, because all channels – not just P1 – are available. It is not right that the defense and our allies use the same frequency range as the Norwegian nationwide radio. The frequency authority of each country is responsible for the management of frequency resources within its own national borders. Norway is sovereignly able to determine the frequencies to which we use nationally, as long as frequency use does not violate international conventions to which the countries have acceded. In Norway, the frequency 174 to 240 MHz is allocated to digital radio, and many of our NATO allies also use the same DAB frequency in their own country. National communications authorities do not authorise the use of frequencies that interfere with Norwegian radio broadcasts and, in order to reduce the likelihood of interference, Mr. Nkom has been actively involved in the planning of the autumn NATO exercise and is prepared in the event of disturbance. In larger exercises using equipment and networks at the same time, you can never be quite sure that something is not being misused or that no one is being disturbed locally. Such disturbances affect civil systems, such as: broadcasting and mobile networks. This has nothing to do with DAB alone, but is a problem that concerns all kinds of broadcasting, mobile internet and broadband. As long as NATO and the Defense deal with the permits given by Nkom, there is no risk of interference. Similarly, there will be no risk of the NRK’s ability to maintain its preparedness. The centre party suggests that we set up our own FM network to communicate NRK P1. I'm afraid this is a very poorly thought-out proposal. The centre party will actually fine the low number of DAB listeners by offering a single channel on FM, a platform that today has a coverage rate of 12. P1 is also a channel that in ten years has gone from 51 pst. belongs on it, to that 29 pst. Listen to it. So we need people going down the basement and rotating the old FM radios to listen to a channel, and that's to ensure our preparedness. It is doubtful that a reopening of the P1 through FM will give a noticeable increase in listening to the radio, and therefore no better preparedness. As an emergency channel, P1 will have to have a coverage equivalent to what P1 had before shutting down, for example. coverage in all major road tunnels. It is difficult to give a reliable estimate of how much it will cost to set up FM networks in order to communicate only P1. But it's the closest thing to take from the price NRK today pays for DAB, since work, investments and equipment are quite similar. The NRK estimates that a new FM network for NRK P1 will cost NRK between 270 million. NOK 360 million and SEK 360 million. DKK in annual rentals, based on a depreciation period of 10 and 5 years respectively. The FM will be more expensive than DAB because the depreciation period must be shorter. Longer depreciation for single-channel FM networks would be irresponsible, cf. the media development and cost per listener after 2030. The NRK assumes that it will take time to realize such a network, among other things. because frequency authorisations must be granted, a tender must be made and negotiations with operators and builders must be planned and implemented. It is therefore doubtful that such a network will be up and running by 2020. In total, the proposal of the Centre for Action will cost a disproportionate amount and take a long time to realise, and will have little impact on preparedness. Therefore, the cost will hardly be in relation to the utility of the channel as an emergency channel. Then the agreement with local radio was mentioned. It is governed by the Broadcasting Act and the Ministry of Culture is not a party to that Agreement. That agreement was also signed this summer. This is a costly solution -- we're going to spend 200 to 300 million. kr for a single channel to be rebuilt. So if you think that people are going down the garbage bins and find back the old FM radios to listen to that channel, and at the same time believe that this is future for Norwegian preparedness -- well, there are a lot of other things that would have priority in this room for emergency reasons, I think.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-25.ana.ud256e613	I'm not talking about the readiness of the future, I'm talking about the readiness we need now. It does not help that all DAB channels can send emergency messages when only half of them are listening to DAB channels at all. That is, we don't know how many people listen to DAB channels, because the Minister of Culture won't let us see that. So this becomes too simple. Norway's Lastebileier-Federal had a survey of its members in ours. Over 80 pst. I thought the coverage on DAB was worse than on FM. And they outlined a three-digit number of sections in Norway where the coverage was described as insufficient. Even more had experienced situations where the lack of DAB coverage had posed a safety risk. When we talk about preparedness, we have to listen to those who are affected, and also focus on the vulnerability of a digital network that DAB has. The Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness has made it clear in its report ‘Assessing the transition to DAB’ from December 2016: ‘Units in the DAB network may be vulnerable to hacker attacks. For example, information indicates that it will be relatively easy to produce a separate DAB transmitter that can be used to send malicious code to car radios.’ The digital network can also be easily hacked by sending codes to receiving units so that they can be monitored and/or controlled by a third party. What is also an important element in this case is the perceived coverage of the population. There are differences in the theory and practice of coverage on DABs, among others. this applies to these seafarers. DAB has been developed mainly for the purpose of demography, hence the poorer coverage in pig-grown areas. On the sea, which is the arena of many active workers, the radio is apparently almost absent. Earlier this week the sailor Sindre said – he's a sailor, according to the Minister of Industry: where we used to cover the FM, we don't have cover for the DAB. The whole DAB is untalented for us sailors. It's not coverage at central locations you would think had good coverage, e.g. in Henningsvær port, where in the case of low water there is no coverage, while in the case of high water there is partial coverage. With the FM, it was very good coverage regardless of something as banal as the tide. Such stories are still many of them. Experienced coverage versus theoretical coverage is obviously not the same, and we need to be able to reach the population based on practice, not just on theory. That's where FM can contribute. DSB also writes the following in that report: ‘Unexperienced coverage is as real for each individual as both theoretical and measured coverage, and if a large proportion of the population experience a lack of coverage, this could pose an emergency challenge, at least in a transitional phase.’ So how long is this challenging transition going to last? It's almost two years since we started shutting down the FM, and yet there's a big difference in theory and practice in coverage. Does the Minister also see this, or can we soon have access to good evidence that this is not the case?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-25.ana.ud256e638	We can't just mean we have to know. There's a lot of facts, and they're well available. A short time ago, we had an open meeting with the entire local radio industry in my office. It was an open meeting. All the media were present. Coverage figures and actual measurements were also provided, which show that there is a greater coverage now, among others. in the districts, than was the case with the former FM network. It's measured exactly. It is clear that experienced coverage for the first time is about having a radio apparatus. There are still fewer DAB devices than there were FM radios in Norway. It's not so strange because we just introduced a new technology. There is probably also another difference: with FM you could experience a scorching, distant sound, where you might be able to distinguish a few words, while with DAB you have either good sound or no sound. As a result, some people extend back to the old scourging, but we want to have as much sound as possible. I can inform you that it costs about 270-360 million. This has to be set up; it also needs to be built new in all our tunnels – tunnels where there is coverage today. You can always dream back to a time when everyone listened to the radio, no one downloaded podcasts, and no one listened to the radio via their cell phone, but we have to be factual in terms of developments. It's not like you're taking FM on your cell phone. You don't take DAB either. You pick up digital signals on your cell phone. There are some statements here that have nothing to do with the real numbers. We're not against counting listeners. The Media Authority has good figures on that, too. It is part of the public debate: where is the development of radio? But I don't think the solution for better preparedness in Norway is to spend hundreds of millions of dollars building up a system to send a channel that just about 20 pst. listened before it was turned off – and believe that that's how we save the standby. Then I have much more faith that also using the other technologies that reach the citizens of Norway, such as: mobile phone, is a better solution to ensure preparedness than just believing that it is the old FM channel P1 that solves the emergency challenges in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-25.ana.ud256e649	These are several debates at once, both on the big technology shift to go from FM to DAB and also on security issues. And at the heart of it is the question: was it right to make this big technology change? There's a problem we know. When do we replace the old PC with a new one? When is it time to get a new mobile phone? When do we replace our car? The assessment we're doing is, what added value do we get from that investment? What added value can we get? How much does it cost? And not least – in the case of the car: What are the main maintenance costs in front of us if we keep the old one? I guess that's what we stood in front of when we made the big change of technology for TV. Then we turned off the analogue network and implemented a fully-fledged digital system, where all residents had to get a decoder, either in the form of a satellite box or cable TV or through RiksTV. It was a very successful transition. We did much better than Sweden – and the things we do better than Sweden, we're always happy. I think one of the reasons was that some of the people were already on a digital platform, some of them felt that they had added value in the offer – they got an extended channel offer – and, in part, that we have, after all, relatively few TV sets in our home. I think it was the successful transition for TV that failed us a little when it came to the radio, because we thought that the shift would be as simple. And again, it was this maintenance ghost that stood over us: we were clearly told that if we did not do this replaced now, there would be a huge cost for the maintenance of the FM network. But I think there are several elements that made this difficult. In part, we have a lot more radios than we have TVs. We have it in the car, we might have it in the bathroom – we have it in many places. We hear radio as well – whether it is not on FM and on DAB we hear, we definitely hear on the mobile. I think I hear most radio on my cell phone, streamed over 4G or Wi-Fi networks. And we didn't experience any great added value. Of course, DAB has more channels than the old FM band, but the niche channels were widely accessed through the 4G network or the Wi-Fi network. I also believe that maintaining a double system has reinforced the problems. It's different than for TV. We kept the analogue FM system parallel to the introduction of DAB. I have to say that the interpellant has a good point in that it is quite possible to restore P1 on the FM network. This can be done without full development in tunnels – and what the Minister of Culture says is derailment. If that in itself led to many more people getting access to the radio now, it would be an improvement, even though it would not be as extensive as before we did the big shift. This will be handled by the government. These are important security issues – whether you can cover those you want to cover, with the system we have today. But I think we're going to have to figure out which leg we're going to stand on. When you first replace a car and buy a new one, it is not safe to keep the old one at the same time. Then you often get double expenses. And if you thought it was replaced, you could say yes, it was stupid, we shouldn't have done that. But it is not certain that you are going back to the old PC or the old mobile phone. There, I don't think the Center Party necessarily has a good reason, to turn on the FM network again after hundreds of thousands and millions of people have got rid of a bunch of FM devices and bought DAB radios, I'm pretty sure there's no good solution. Finally, there are worrying figures for radio listening. We know that consumer habits change largely slowly, but sometimes there is a big leap. This type of technology changer can lead to the type of big jump. I think it is positive that Norwegian radio stations have a strong role in Norway, that they are being listened to, and that they are being used. I think this is something that we as media politicians must keep a close eye on in the future, and ensure that we have good, living broadcasters and good, living, Norwegian radio channels, which maintain Norwegian language, Norwegian debate, Norwegian culture, Norwegian local interest, and which provide the flora that the new technology actually provides us with.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-25.ana.ud256e664	Everything was much better before, some will obviously claim. Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen from the Center Party is one of the people who claims this. But were things better before when it came to radio and standby? Here, in fact, I hardly think the learned are fighting. With documentation in hand, most people claim the opposite. Since the summer, central parties have been running a coordinated campaign where the message has been that our security has deteriorated after the introduction of DAB and the closure of FM. The speech of the figures by the National Communications Authority is clear. DAB has at least as good coverage as the national FM coverage. This applies both to the NRK and to the two national commercial operators. So the uptime of DAB is a little bit better than that of FM. If we look at road and tunnel coverage, we see that DAB is at least as good or better than FM was. These are numbers we can't choose to ignore. And was that better before? Let's take an example: the storm of Dagmar in December 2011. During this storm, the main transmitters on both Reinsfjellet and Gamlemsveten were out of operation. Very many converters were also powerless. So the radio was silenced. Then the countyman in More and Romesdal, Lodve Solholm, said that the NRK P1 was out of service for 24 hours. So people didn't get the messages they were supposed to have in a critical situation. There are many examples. So maybe it wasn't safer before? It is referred to that the alert is impaired because so few now listen to NRK P1. Of course, in a crisis situation, all messages could go out on all DAB channels. As the government said, the DAB network has double transmitters, backup power and back-up on all transmitters that cover more than 5,000 people. So this includes 93 pst. by the population. As for the fear that the defense would come and take over frequencies on its own needs, the Minister of Culture answered very well the question about this, which was raised by Emilie Enger Mehl, last week. So it's always the way to change technology that it brings some challenges, and everything doesn't necessarily work as it should. But the objections I have at least the sense of in this debate are from the few who previously had access to niche channels such as. NRK Always news on the FM band. To a small extent, these reflect on the fact that such niche ducts disappeared in the car already on the way over Lierskogen southward and at the Gardermoen on E6 northward – often after a bit of scorching FM sound, which many today are happy to release. That's just this one of the greatest benefits of DAB. The new network makes the niche channels available throughout District Norway. In Hardanger can reach my mother-in-law sitting and listening to NRK always news or NRK Classical if she wants it. The question we should ask ourselves is whether we should move back in time – or look forward to it. My approach is simple, it's about looking forward. This week, Google Home will come, and Apple will bets in the same market. What is important then is that the new technologies and platforms become carriers of Norwegian content, and that the advertising revenue goes to Norwegian broadcasters. These technology battles have exactly the same objectives: that their voice assistants should be at the service of people – at home, in the car and on the mobile. A mobile network or broadband will never be able to meet the emergency requirements. Without DAB, we would be forced to maintain FM in the foreseeable future, just for emergency reasons. An analogue FM network with limited content and minor use, for the benefit of network and mobile listening, increases costs and does not increase preparedness. By shifting a large proportion of listening from FM to DAB, it has been possible to increase diversity, reduce regulation and establish a preparedness platform adapted to today’s digital reality – with coverage across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-25.ana.ud256e687	Radio – there’s something they’re all about, most of us have a relationship with, whether it’s radio in the kitchen, in the living room, in the car, on the cabin or in the boat. Before that, the Norwegian people gathered around the radio – for example: to record the lap times on skates. I'm so old that I remember when there was only one NRK channel on the radio and then no one had cell phones. As a boy, I was caught by the serious messages: ‘This is a message to Hans Hansen, currently on a car vacation in the West. Their mother is very ill." Or even worse, "Your mother is dead." This was a radio in my childhood. Fortunately, today there is something quite different. And many times we've been discussing radio issues in this room. Today, the interpellant makes sure that we get the opportunity to do it again. For the Centre Party, it would like to come up with solutions when it is too late, when everything is decided – and when they have voted against the proposals of the Advance Party in previous rounds. It is a fact that only the Progress Party has demonstrated resistance to the phase-out of FM and the introduction of DAB in several bulk treatment operations. We've fought that fight alone. We warned against the fact that DAB technology would be out of date at the time of its introduction, and we have always thought that we should skip this stage of radio-technological development to wait for the next progress – for example. network radio, which may take over most of the radio broadcasts quite soon. All the other parties voted for Norway to be the first country in the world to beat the FMs for their national channels last year. The Party of Advancement stood alone against the decision. Now the Central Party is trying to knock political coins on the case and steal the ownership of the issue of FM versus DAB. It serves them little honor. There's something called that there's no shame in turning around. But there's also something called it's too late to cheat when the nose is gone. That's a little bit like that in this case: the centre party is trying to cover the fact that the lot was for the introduction of DAB and the phase-out of FM. Unfortunately, it is utopian to imagine a reconstruction of nationwide FM shipments with the costs involved, estimated at a point between 270 and 360 million. kr per year only for FM consignments on NRK P1. Now that DAB is introduced, we have to make the best of the situation. The DAB broadcasts are fine in many areas, while there is hardly any other way to get them in. Therefore, it is appropriate to extend the period beyond 2021 – likely to 2031 – for the approx. 200 local radios still transmitting on the FM band and adjusting the conditions of the local radio broadcasts. As a matter of urgency, it is best to think that almost everyone in this country is in possession of a mobile phone that is accessible for information and messages. The majority of FM stations will not have the economy to switch to DAB, but with simple adjustments they can stand on their own feet, secure a few hundred jobs and solve the inter-pellant emergency needs, completely free of taxpayers’ costs. All measures are free of charge: increase transmitter power, use available frequencies, remove income restrictions and allow forwarding and consolidation. In addition, we ensure the media diversity, especially locally where there is not much competition. The Progress Party is very concerned that we should have a variety of opinions, and this is an obvious, good opportunity to substantiate this. It is almost impossible to reverse the DAB introduction, but what is available from FM transmitters can and should be used to ensure that any alarm messages reach as much as possible. This cannot create major problems for the monopoly situation of the nationwide channels in the four largest cities. This is something I am sure the government will come back to in the notified media message. Finally, the Civil Defense Typhoon Notice ‘Important Message — Listening on Radio’ is not something we want to hear, except when tested twice a year in peacetime. But listen to the radio we'll probably – some still on FM, others on DAB, and many probably even more on the Internet in a few years. Then we can quickly discover that DAB was an expensive intermediate solution on the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-25.ana.ud256e706	The centre party does not entirely cover the fact that we were in favour of the DAB introduction in 2011. On the other hand, the representative Mr. Wold says that he and his party voted against our proposal in 2016 to postpone the closure to a much better time to do so, and I believe that it should still not have been done. The representative Pettersen believes that the coverage is so good now that although the coverage is not so good in pig-grown strips, it does nothing. That's pretty typical right-wing policy. He claims that I am just busy coming back to old days. No, I'm busy getting ready now. It was great to have both FM and DAB, as everyone else still has it, and as it's going to be a good time ahead – and rather bet on the Internet, but have FM analog as backup. So the Council of State says it's going to be very expensive to re-establish FM infrastructure. I don't know if she's taken on board the technological developments that have been in the field of FM systems these days – that's the world standard. So I think it'll be much cheaper than she claims. Then we have this with the media diversity. The government also says that people won't be looking for old FM radios. I remember hearing FM on DAB. In addition, all local radios sent only on FM experience a big listener lift. There are a lot of people still listening to FM, and I want even more people listening to radio. When it comes to this with local radio, which also the representative Wold was in, I hope that the Council of State, the whole committee and the Stortinget can look at the situation of local radio, again, because they have a concession on FM only out of 2021. I can promise the hall that we in the Center Party will work to extend the concession so that they can stay on their legs – it is too expensive for many of them to connect to DAB – and also to ensure the media diversity, as we in the Center Party feel that the local radio is now making sure that we have in Norway to a great extent. I'm very excited if the Council of State is going to take care of the local radios and make sure they keep sending on FM, as we in the Center Party will.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-25.ana.ud256e721	If you go into the archives of this house and find the last post I kept on this topic, it was about that a decision has actually been made, and that you relate to it, sail if you can be critical of different steps at introduction. As the Council of State, I also have to deal with the fact that this Chamber, in fact, unanimously decided to do this. Then both the Progress Party and the Center Party, with different arguments and different approaches, have been critical of the way we introduce it. It is clear that in retrospect we can discuss whether we should have skipped a development, but it was the industry that took this initiative, and in particular the NRK has been a driver to get it done. We have to realize that we no longer gather around the radio, as Morten Wold described in the story of his childhood – I also remember the messages he told us about here – in the same way that we don't gather around TV shows as we did before. Someone listened to skating, I grew up with the whole family getting together when it was radio theater, because it was the closest thing you came to the theater show in my childhood. But there are some irrevocable facts that you just have to take over. The offer is better, it reaches more – it also reaches more in pig-grown strokes. So it's not possible to make a picture that we don't care about people in the village. People in the countryside have a better offer now, with more channels reaching out further. To just say it like that, it's also technically better what's lying there. I encourage everyone you meet, to report every time the DAB fails, or you think there are violations of the broadcasts. What we notice is that there are only one-eightths of the number of complaints in the month so far this year as it was in 2017. So the number of complaints rages. Fewer and fewer people report. So my call is that people have to report when they think that something is bad, because that's when we can get hold of it. There are hundreds of more transmitters built on the basis of people's feedback. People have to give feedback, because then we can get better. Then I come back to the local radios in the media message, which I hope intensely that I am allowed to submit. Summarized by this interpolation: we must have looked straight ahead. We can't dream of the past. We need to look at preparedness in a broad approach, and then I believe that raising one radio channel, P1, by rebuilding a whole new system, will not help to strengthen preparedness. But I have many other good ideas to spend a few hundred million on to strengthen preparedness in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-25.ana.ud256e736	That is when the debate is on case No. 2 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-25.ana.ud256e750	As the President referred to, the Scientific Committee on Food and the Environment has recently presented a report on the prevalence of wild boar. According to the Committee, the population is likely to increase from the current 1000 animals to 40000 animals over 15 years if no drastic action is taken. The same conclusion was reached in a report from AgriAnalyse, so one has two similar analyses of how the prevalence of wild boar will occur in Norway. An increase in the wild boar population is linked to the risk of spreading disease, mainly African swine fever, but also to crop damage and increased risk of game destruction. But the greatest danger is the danger of increased spread and that the population comes out of control altogether. Under favorable conditions, wild boars can have a total of three coals a year. That is, we're facing an extraordinary and exponential increase. This has already happened in Sweden. Today, there are 300,000 wild boars in Sweden — despite the annual shooting of 100,000 animals — compared to just 80,000 moose. Since 2005, we have had a solid strain of wild boar in Eastfold centered around Aremark and Halden. Today, this tribe is 1,000 animals. But we feel very strongly that national authorities don't care. We feel that there is a ostrich policy in the case of wild boar. You stick your head in the sand and then pretend the problem doesn't exist. The truth is that now we have the ability to control the population. In 15 years, it'll be too late. Wild boar is defined as a high-risk alien species. Such a definition must have some consequences and a set of measures. The problem must be addressed and the aim must be to reduce the risk. So what can you do? A simple measure to stimulate more hunting is to introduce a shot premium, but perhaps the most important measure in the long term is to do as we have already done in Eastfold, namely to establish a management plan with the aim of keeping the population under control. I have seen that some, including the Norwegian League of Bonds in Hedmark, have been skeptical of a management plan, but that scepticism must be based on a misunderstanding. A management plan is about increased organisation and cooperation to stimulate more hunting, just to keep the population down – not to the contrary, which is often thought of in terms of management. Measures to ensure more effective hunting should also be considered. Norway should be able to establish a hunting regime similar to that in Sweden. There's the law with both dogs in the drive, night lights and nightglasses. It's not in Norway. That means that we deprive ourselves of the possibility of a more effective hunt. Because no one has said that the hunt for wild boar is simple. Cooperation and coordination with the landowners are essential to the success of this work. However, there is a question of why landowners should have a greater right to refuse to hunt for wild boar on their own land than they have today, for example. deer, taking into account the definition of wild boar as a high risk foreign species. It is possible to hunt wild boar anywhere geographically and at any time of the year; there are no restrictions on that. The only constraint is on females with cubs, and it's defined that they spread even more. Cooperation with the landowners is the only thing that can limit this hunt, so it is so important to get it done. In Sweden, as I said, there are 300,000 wild boars, so no matter what we do in Norway, we get more wild boars into the country. It's time to stop a ostrich policy in the case of wild boar. It's time to get your head off the sand and deal with the problem. What will the Council of State do to prevent us from getting a strain of 40,000 wild boar in Norway in a few years?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-25.ana.ud256e769	First, I would like to thank the representative for bringing up the topic. Alien, harmful species are a highly increasing threat to Norwegian nature. Each year, the country uses large sums to control and limit the prevalence of such animals and organisms. Measures to avoid the spread of harmful alien species are a central point of the Jeløya Platform, and this government has the ambition to eliminate high-risk species from Norwegian nature. Therefore, the government has also proposed to strengthen the budget for 2019 by 10 million. kr to this very purpose, a strengthening that is significant: here goes the sum we're going to spend, from 26 million. NOK 36 million. kr to next year. As a follow-up to the Report. St. 14 for 2015–2016, Nature for Life – Norwegian Action Plan for Nature Diversity, the government will come forward in spring 2019 with a general action plan to combat alien, harmful organisms in order to ensure a more targeted, effective and coordinated response to them. Wild boar is a foreign species that causes damage in Norway. I therefore think it is an important question the representative raises. The representative indicates that wild boar has begun to spread in Norway, and calls for concrete measures to prevent a large population of wild boar. I would like to stress that wild boar has come here by itself from Sweden, where they are put into the wild. In Sweden, however, wild boar is considered to be part of the local fauna. Sweden is assumed today, after the numbers I have, to have at least 200,000 wild boars. The representative referred to 300,000. We get to check that out, but the number is in any case uncertain, and the population can also be much larger than 200,000 animals. The species database considers wild boar to be a species with a high risk of adverse effects on Norwegian nature. Wild boars can adversely affect agriculture by rotating the soil in the field, roughing livestock feed and eating up cereals and vegetables. Wild boar eats mostly what they come over, they graze on plants, and they eat bird's eggs and bird's cubs as well as carcasses of other game species. Therefore, it is close to believing that a larger population will affect the nature in which it lives. Wild boar is managed as a foreign, harmful species, and our actions will focus on this. To the extent that landowners want to feed wild boar hunting, it will be a side-effect and must not prevent effective measures against wild boar or lead to measures not being implemented or implemented with too little strength. In order to limit the prevalence of wild boar in Norway, environmental management has facilitated hunting through the hunting season. It is open for hunting wild boar all year long, except for adult females with cubs, which are protected for animal ethical reasons. In order to know what measures and measures we should take against wild boar in particular, both environmental and agricultural management have needed a thorough and independent professional assessment. Last year, therefore, the Environment Directorate and the Food Authority ordered a report from the Scientific Committee on Food and the Environment on wild boar in Norwegian nature. The report, which came a short time ago, concludes that if drastic measures are not taken in the next few years, the consequences will be 1) that the wild boar population will most likely grow significantly and spread to new areas in Norway; 2) that without measures the wild boar population may double every three years; and 3) that wild boar could have a serious impact on both agriculture and natural ecosystems. More wild boar, for example. pose a risk of infection of Norwegian swine herds with serious diseases such as African swine fever. It is worth mentioning that climate change will make it easier for wild boars to increase both in number and prevalence in Norway. The report of the Scientific Committee has given us new knowledge and confirms that wild boar is a foreign species with high damage potential in Norway. The Environment Directorate and Food Safety are clear in their joint recommendation to start drafting proposals for a separate action plan for wild boar. This will be in addition to the existing action plan on the control of alien organisms. On this basis, in consultation with the Minister for Agriculture and Food, I would like to ask the Environment Directorate and the Food Authority to draw up an action plan on wild boar during 2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-25.ana.ud256e792	I am pleased that the Council of State and the Department are taking this problem seriously, and I am also particularly pleased that he is now giving a clear signal that the fight against dispersal is the main rule and motivation for an action plan, so that business interests are not the leader. That being said, I perceive that there is often a little false, or unnecessary, conflict between business interests and non-proliferation measures, because it's going to be wild enough for everyone. I think that this artificial conflict can be mitigated by focusing on the subject, as we have in this Chamber today, and the action plan to come must also look at a more effective hunting regime in terms of control. Then, of course, you always have to look up the hunting regime against ethics. When the Scientific Committee on Food and the Environment says that drastic action must be taken, it may be contrary to ethics. So what I would like to hear from the Council of State is whether he, when you ask for 'drastic measures', will deliver on it? And what drastic measures does he see? In the case of wild boar, we wait, unlike in the case of e.g. the problem of predators, the spread of wild boar along the coast. It is also important that the action plan takes on board the fact that it is along the coast up to the Trendelag, which is the issue, and not necessarily the same area as predatory problems today. So I tend to say, a bit of a joke, that we should have better pedagogy on these animals -- we should teach the wolf up to eat wild boar and the wild boar to eat brown snails. I have to admit that we might be having a little trouble with it, so in the absence of such a plan, it would be very nice to have the action plan that the Council of State is signalling. But I would like a little bit more detail as to what drastic measures he sees themselves, and also how this can be developed in order also to preserve the ethics of the whole thing. Because it's going to be a huge problem. Among other things, we see: that someone has also suggested shooting with kids to take the kids out.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-25.ana.ud256e803	To start with, I mean, even though wild boar is a foreign species, we have to keep the animal ethical boundaries, and you shouldn't open the door to shoot with kids. Even today, you can shoot the kids all year round, but I think it's a limit there that we shouldn't go over, that we should keep the animal ethics principles. Otherwise, the situation today is that we're a little bit there as Sweden was in the 1980s, because we have a population. The file is probably estimated to be approx. 1000 animals, but it can increase violently, as we've seen in Sweden. And especially with the Swedish situation – wild boar is considered to be part of Swedish fauna – there will be wild boar in Norway in the years to come, and what we are now discussing is how we are going to deal with that situation. Where we are now, I believe we have instruments. We've opened up to have hunted all year, with the one constraint that we discussed. But the reason we now need an action plan is that we need to be prepared for a situation where the number can increase explosively. I think we should wait for the technical advice, but the action plan just needs to look at the various tools you can have to stimulate hunting, which are close to believing we need to. There will certainly also be a discussion about the need for more effective hunting, and hunting methods could also be part of it. We have to make sure that there is no illegal feeding of wild boar. There have also been examples of this. So we have to have a comprehensive policy. The role of the State’s nature oversight will also be closely linked to the inclusion of an action plan. But where we are now, we have a wild boar population, it's still limited, and we're at the right time to get an action plan. And this is an action plan that both the Food Authority and the Environment Directorate want to develop, so that we can meet the situation that will be there. Wild boar is something we're going to have in the years to come, and this is about how we're going to deal with that situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-25.ana.ud256e816	First to the interpellant, who wondered if we couldn't teach the wolf how to eat wild boar. To say that nothing is so wrong that it is not good for anything. The wolf already eats wild boar. Thanks to the interpellant for bringing up a high-current theme. Unfortunately, we are seeing an increasing spread of the species in the border region and especially in Eastfold, and since the Scientific Committee on Food and the Environment on the summer presented a report on the order of the Environment Directorate and Food Safety, there is every reason to call for an alarm. The establishment of wild boar in Norwegian fauna does not involve a pleasant review of a species that has not been here naturally in 1000 years. On the contrary, there is a threat to health and food production. This is not a species to be managed, this is – and I agree with the Council of State – a species that should be combated. Wild boar is a foreign species and has been assessed by the Species database to pose a high ecological risk and may threaten the production of Norwegian food and not least Norwegian animal health. In Sweden, unfortunately, wild boar is considered to be part of the local fauna, and many in Sweden regret that it has grown so much. The population has grown enormously since the 1970s. This has caused us to spread to Norway, and today we have about 1,000 individuals. Climate change means that we can expect wild boar to spread further along the coast and northwards towards Trondelag. So we're in the situation that Sweden was in at the beginning of the 1980s, with a small population of wild boars in a limited area. In the absence of drastic measures to control growth and development, the population is likely to double every three years. A saying says that while the grass grows, the cow dies. In the case of wild boar, as long as the authorities investigate and wait, the wild boar spreads with a double every three years. I would like to repeat: we do not need a management plan, as the interpellant has called for in this room and not least in the district of Eastfold a few years ago, where interpellant Jacobsen, among others. said that the wild boar must be managed in the same way as other species. No, the wild boar is not similar to other species, the wild boar is a foreign species in Norwegian fauna and poses a health risk. What we need is not a management plan. We need – in order to be a bit brutal – an eradication plan or a plan of action that prevents permanent establishment while there is yet time. For example, recently over 100,000 pigs were slaughtered from a pig herd in Lithuania, precisely because of animal diseases spread by wild boar. In Denmark and France, boundaries are being built to stop the spread of African swine fever, while the Norwegian Government has so far shown no signs of action. But I am pleased with the signals given by the Council of State today on a plan of action. The central party expects the government to make it clear that the establishment of wild boar in Norwegian fauna is not wanted, and that they act accordingly. Immediate action must be taken, as a strict imposition of feeding, the use of dogs in hunting must be allowed, hunting must be organised, and we must have a long-term plan to prevent permanent establishment. It was also suggested that wild boar could be a business. A new report from Sweden shows that the adverse effects far exceed the income generated by hunting and industrial use. We have to get a plan to keep the wild boar away from the Norwegian fauna. The centre party also called for a clearer regulatory framework for systematic extraction of unwanted species, which I also heard that the Council of State was involved. We're looking forward to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-25.ana.ud256e835	I agree with the last article. This is a problem that we're going to take very seriously, and we have to act now. It is not useful to expect, it must be implemented, because we should not have wild boars in Norway. I think we need an eradication plan for wild boar, and that we should use all available tools to fight down wild boars in Norway. At a seminar organised by Hedmark Bondelag, it was said that on the Swedish side they have a cost of 1.6 billion. kr to have wild boar. It is estimated that in Norway there are about 1,000 wild boars today. But this can quickly grow to tens of thousands, and put one out of action, we can come up in hundreds of thousands of wild boars, with the consequences it has for the ability to farm in Norway, and the problems that result from animal health. Good animal health has been a competitive advantage for Norwegian agriculture. It should still be. I believe that all restrictions on hunting should be lifted. I think it must be allowed to use a dog in hunting, it must be allowed to use light in hunting, and one must consider additional measures to fight down wild boars. It is not acceptable to administer it, it is not acceptable for these animals to be fed. It has to be firmly fixed, so that one has a direction to go in. In the worst case, this could be one of the biggest economic challenges facing Norwegian agriculture, and when we look at the means of working they have seen in Denmark, we see the extreme danger of wild boar establishing itself in Norway. There are very few areas where it is more relevant to say that we have to avoid Swedish states. Wild boar does not belong in Norwegian nature. Wild boars must be eradicated in Norwegian nature with the available tools we have, and I expect the government to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-25.ana.ud256e842	I feel here that the Center Party is about to lift up to a completely unnecessary conflict. Whatever we do, and that was, of course, my main point, we're going to have wild boar in Norway. But we need drastic action, and we need action to keep the population under control. In Sweden, it's out of control. That's why the Council of State and the representative Jacobsen may have a little fight about how many wild boars there are in Sweden – you may not know how many there are, because it doubles every two years. Is it 200,000, is it 300,000, is it going to be 400,000 or 500,000? We don't know. All we know for sure is that there's going to be wild boar in Norway no matter what we do. When making a conflict about a management plan, it is very important to stress that it is about management to combat. Here's two ditches to go in. One ditch is the ostrich policy that the government and the ministry have now led to, that is, to do nothing. Then the problem won't be gone. The other ditch to go in, to which the Senter Party is now inviting, is to believe that you can fight, believe that you can remove the wild boar from all over Norway. When there are 500 000 wild boars in Sweden, it is that no matter what we do, there is going to be wild boar in Norway. Therefore, it is important to focus on actions on cooperation with landowners, which are about getting this under control, and which are about more effective hunting methods. I invite the Council of State to look at what we've got in Eastfold. There we have a management plan that works well, so I invite the Council of State down to Eastfold to learn more about how it works there, and what is done to combat the wild boar population in Eastfold, with an organisation at municipal level and with better cooperation with all parties. It is important to involve both landowners and forestry interests, so that local agreement can be reached. I feel that in Eastfold there are no major conflicts about what to do. Most municipalities in Eastfold adopt the county management plan, which is an effective means of keeping the population down. So Ola Elvesuen is very welcome to Eastfold to learn more about this as a basis for a national action plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-25.ana.ud256e851	Now I'm going to Eastfold for a whole day in less than a very long time. Now I wasn't supposed to find the exact date, and it's pretty close to the program, but we'll see if it's possible to get some input into this as well. Otherwise, I agree with the interpellant that when the policy and situation are as they are in Sweden, we have to deal with the fact that there will be wild boar here, in Norwegian nature, so this is about how we are going to deal with it. We follow the Species Database definition of wild boar as a foreign species and as a harmful species in Norwegian nature. And we're not waiting. We are adding increased funds for combating alien species to the draft budget for next year. It's a significant increase, to 36 million. kr. We have free hunting, with the one animal ethical restriction that applies to sucking with kids, and I think we should keep that. Feeding is prohibited. Then we have the two measures – both a general order at action level against alien species as such and a separate order for an action plan against wild boar. I mean, based on where we are, it comes at exactly the right time. We are, as has been said by several, in the same situation that Sweden was in at the beginning of the 1980s, and now is the right time to see what we have to do. I would then like to wait for the proposal for an action plan. That's where we have to decide if it's right to have a management plan, and that's where we have to decide what to do to stimulate more hunting. It is important to say that even today you can go locally together and organize the hunting of wild boars, just as you go together and organize elk. And then we have to bring some principles into this discussion. That a landowner has the exclusive right to hunt for his property is a principle we have in Norway, and landowners can refuse hunting, even on wild boars. It's an important principle. Stepping away from it would require a change of laws and is a much bigger case than this very topic. I think we understand where we are, what the risk is if we get an explosive increase in wild boar. We have instruments that are important from the current situation, and we have launched an action plan to do more as the situation requires.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-25.ana.ud256e864	The debate on substance is closed. 3 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-25.ana.ud256e876	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-25.ana.ud256e885	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1-3, by Nils Kristen Sandtrøen on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 4 and 5, from the Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red The case manager has corrected the setting of entry 74 in its article. The amount to and from should be DKK 1000, i.e. NOK 8 225 599 000 and NOK 8 534 599 000. Proposal No. 5, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that all imported feed, including from EU countries, is controlled and approved by the Food Authority before further distribution.’ The Socialist Left has already given its support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-25.ana.ud256e913	Proposal No. Four, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks whether it is possible to use actual crops as a basis for calculating crop damage in roughage production, in order to ensure that producers with crops higher than normal crops in the municipality receive adequate compensation in the event of loss.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-25.ana.ud256e930	Proposal No. 1-3, from the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to go through the crop compensation system in advance of the agricultural settlement in 2019 to prevent the reduction of agriculture as a result of economic losses in the face of major climate change in the years ahead.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the setting up of a working group representing the agricultural trade unions to prepare a model for an agricultural climate fund and to return to the Stortinget with such a proposal as soon as possible.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to implement an exceptional monitoring programme to detect any outbreaks of disease as early as possible as a result of the exceptional import of feed.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-25.ana.ud256e1098	In Case No: 2 and 3 do not present a voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-25.ana.ud256e1155	As a result, the matters on today's map have been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It hasn't happened. The meeting has been cancelled.
