ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e85	The representative, Petter Eide, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e90	I have the pleasure of presenting a proposal to resolve the situation of those seriously mentally ill people who are isolated in Norwegian prisons. It comes from the representatives of Freddy André Øvstegård, Karin Andersen and signed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e95	The representative, Arne Nävra, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e100	On behalf of the representatives Solfrid Lerbreck, Freddy André Øvstegård and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal to stop the privatisation of operations and maintenance on the Østfoldbahn. The matter is to be dealt with in Bane NOR's Board in September, so I am asking the presidency and the committee for a quick discussion in the spring session.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e105	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform us that today's meeting will continue well beyond noon. 16:00, until the current map has been processed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e123	Ambulance aeroplanes are an important part of health preparedness in Norway. Especially in North Norway, this service is essential for people to feel safe about getting needed health care. I therefore look very seriously at the situation that has arisen. Night until Saturday 28 April, all the ambulance aeroplanes were on the ground, and in time, for periods of time, there has been a reduction in the availability of ambulances, especially in Finnmark. This is a difficult period. At the same time, health services show their best interest. Both personnel and extra resources are mobilised to find solutions that best safeguard the security of the population. This applies to all actors. Although the situation has been challenging for healthcare and those who work there and that some patients have had to wait, this has not yet had serious consequences for life and health. I would like to thank everyone who is on the verge of such extraordinary situations. The overall responsibility for all air ambulances in Norway lies with the Health Agency. The entity is owned by the four regional health establishments. The situation that has now arisen has been specifically followed up by Health Nord on their behalf. It is also this region that has had the greatest preparedness challenges. The acquisition process itself was in its time led by Health Mid-Norway, who had the chief executive at that time. As the owner of the regional health companies and the top manager, I have had close dialogue with Health Nord, and through them also with the Air ambulance service. I have been to Bodø and Tromsø and have been briefed on how those responsible for the provision of services are planning to deal with the preparedness ahead, and I have met those who are in the middle of the situation. A reporting system is in place to report on the emergency situation at the aerodromes in the health regions on a daily basis, including: to the Department, the Directorate of Health and the State. The Ministry of Health and Health asked the Directorate of Health on Monday 7 May to contact the Defence for helicopter assistance. The Health Directorate then asked the Defence Operational Headquarters to do so in an ordinary manner and in line with an established agreement. The defense put in two manned helicopters in Finnmark last week. Health Nord, as I have asked, has developed a plan of action, both in the short and long term. It contains several compensatory measures that may be applied in the event of the loss of ambulance aeroplanes. The plan must necessarily be further developed and updated as the situation develops, not least in the event of changes in the capacity of Air Transport AS to provide services. The main elements of the plan are: In addition to the two mentioned Defense Helicopters, one additional flight from Babcock is leased. Babcock will also be able to offer a jet plane for service in Norway from the next week, if necessary. Action is also being taken to strengthen staffing in the AMK Central and Air Coordination Centres in Tromsø and to strengthen emergency medical preparedness locally. There are mobilised resources that strengthen the other ambulance service, and alternative ambulance resources are requested to be used when appropriate and possible. It is assessed on an ongoing basis how to dispose of the total air ambulance resources available. This is in line with practices that are established when during periods there is a reduced preparedness in parts of the emergency medical chain, e.g. when bad weather makes it difficult to fly. Air transport has taken action to improve the availability of pilots in the future. Ten-twelve new pilots will be ready for duty in June/July. As from 1 June of this year, a new contract shall be opened for ambulance helicopters. It allows for the insertion of two additional reserve helicopters into operation in addition to the normal standby. In their longer-term plan, the Air ambulance service has also looked at the possibilities of hiring several aircraft from external suppliers, including the possibility for Babcock to take over responsibility for some bases before 1 July 2019 – this if air transport is unable to deliver sufficient services during their contractual period. The latest situation report suggests that preparedness has also been reduced today, but that it improves over a week. Today, four out of nine aircraft are on standby all day, while two are on standby parts of the day. Tomorrow six out of nine aircraft are expected to be on standby all day, while two are on standby much of the day. After this, there are currently no known withdrawals in the coming weeks. The emergency situation must also be seen in the context of the provision of additional resources, as mentioned above. With Norway’s geography and housing patterns, the Air Ambulance Service is central to effective treatment, transport and preparedness in the event of acute illness or injury. The service shall contribute to equivalent healthcare provision and is a prerequisite for patients to benefit from modern treatment provision in time-critical conditions when hospitalisation is far away. In North Norway, especially in Finnmark, ambulances are an important response resource that performs a large number of immediate assistance tasks, often with a high degree of urgency. Ambulance aeroplanes have the advantage that they are less vulnerable to severe weather conditions than the helicopters are. Ambulance flights also have an important role to play in ensuring transport between hospitals when needed. 35 pst. of the missions of the ambulance aeroplanes, are intended to be reinstatements of patients who have received specialised treatment. It is this type of mission that is deprioritised when planes are on the ground and other missions are urgent. The air ambulance service currently has 13 ambulance helicopters, which are operated from 12 bases, and 9 ambulance aircraft, which are operated from 7 bases. It is also an agreement with the Ministry of Justice and Security that rescue helicopters may be used for air ambulance operations. All vessels are equipped with advanced medical monitoring and treatment equipment. It allows medical intervention on site and intensive treatment during transportation. About 20,000 patients are assisted each year by the Air ambulance Service. Nearly half are transported by ambulance aircraft. Of these, 35 are pst. so-called readmission operations. Air ambulance services are an important complement to the local emergency services, which are medical and car and boat ambulance services. In Norway, nearly 98 psts are resolved. of all sick transport services by car ambulances. The air ambulance service solves about 2 pst. of the missions, but accounts for a significantly higher share in North Norway and, in particular, in Finnmark. When the national air ambulance service was established in 1988, it was decided that the operational part of the service, i.e. the operation of the service helicopters and aircraft, should be purchased through a public tender with real competition. After the health enterprise reform in 2012, care was transferred to regional health enterprises. A joint subsidiary was established in 2004, now organised as a health business: the HF Air ambulance service. Air ambulance services enter into contracts with private companies for the flight and helicopter services. The aeroplane and helicopter contracts are concluded in accordance with regular tendering procedures. In the final bidding round, the contracts had a duration of six years, with an option for an extension of up to five years for aeroplanes and four years for helicopters. When tenders are made at regular intervals, this contributes to the renewal of the aircraft fleet and to an increase in quality. This is a good thing for the people. Since the establishment of the company in 2004, the Air ambulance Service has carried out a total of five acquisitions of air ambulance services, including the agreement currently under discussion. These have been contracts in which there are significant amounts, without the acquisitions leading to complaints to the Public Acquisitions Complaint Board and without any legal added value. No business transfer has been required in any of these acquisitions. Until 1994, there were several operators in the service. In 1994, Møreflug became the sole operator following a tendering procedure. Mortar aircraft were merged with Air Transport in 1995 and the name was then ‘Air Transport’. Air transport was also given operator responsibility during the contractual periods from 2001 to 2009. Competition has been somewhat limited. In 2009, Norwegian Air ambulance submitted tenders on some bases, but not the full service. The acquisition of new ambulance aircraft services started in the autumn of 2015, first by identifying the current service and finding out what the service needed. Together with Hospital Purchases – at the time HINAS – the Air Ambulance Service established a joint project management. A separate strategy paper was prepared for the acquisition where several alternative solutions were highlighted. The strategy paper was then sent to nearly 500 agencies and social interests in February 2016. There were 44 recordings and 27 hearing replies. On 14 November 2016, regional health companies adopted a revised strategy paper for the ambulance flight service, on which the current flight and base structure was used for the acquisition of ambulance aircraft services with effect from 1 July 2019. Tenders and tender criteria were drawn up in line with the adopted strategy plan. This work also involved many stakeholders: the Air ambulance Service and Hospital Purchases, representatives of the service’s nurses and doctors as well as the security services. Three evaluation rounds and two negotiating meetings were carried out. Quality was improved during the negotiations and the price was reduced. There were a total of 367 requirements on the basis of competition and the offers were ranked after 95 of them. The others were mandatory requirements and requirements to be met during the contract period. In view of the overall value of the contract, the four managing directors of the regional health establishments wished to obtain a specific mandate from their pre-contractual boards. A joint administrative case was developed in May 2017, in which each of the Boards was asked to give its Executive Director an authorisation within the scope outlined in the Board of Directors. In the board case, it was informed of the execution of the tender process and that there were two offers each competing against each other. Furthermore, information was provided on the quality requirements used. Estimates of the costs of the new contract were also provided. The award of the contract was decided and published in June 2017. Air transport, which lost its competitive position, complained about the award and warned that they considered their request for a temporary injection. Therefore, in line with the legislation and good business practice, the contract signature was postponed. However, air transport failed to request temporary supply and did not complain to the complainant about public acquisitions. There is no basis for claiming other than that competition has been implemented in line with the basic principles of procurement law: competition, non-discrimination, predictability, transparency and reprobability. After the acquisition process was completed, the air ambulance service established a project of reception with a dedicated project manager to follow up Babcock until launch. A cooperation body with representatives of the main stakeholders has also been established. Babcock is now working to establish a Norwegian company for the services to be provided through the agreement with the Air ambulance Service. Babcock will also carry out the maintenance of the ambulance aircraft in North Norway, and they are looking at the possibilities to do so in Tromsø, as today. In addition, they will have some decentralised maintenance on the bases. The owner group is currently the operator of the air ambulance service in a number of countries, including Sweden and Finland. Babcock has presented a detailed progress plan and has a full-time project manager to carry out the preparations. The current contract also requires the current operator, Air Transport, to contribute to a seamless transition to a new contract. It is important that air transport is aware of this responsibility. That is why I had a meeting yesterday with the Chairman and CEO of Air Transport. In this meeting I got clear assurances that they will do what they can to comply with this part of the contract. There shall be a meeting later today between the air transport and air ambulance management, where this is also a topic. The contract with Babcock lasts from 1 July 2019 to 2025, with a possible extension to 2030. The contract helps to increase the quality of the service. With effect from 1 July 2019, it shall take effect, inter alia: new runway aeroplanes on all bases. These aeroplanes will have better navigation equipment and better safety equipment on board and will fly faster than today. The new aeroplanes will have a medical facility that allows for more specialised treatment on board. The service also gets a medium-sized jet plane on the Gardermoen, which replaces one of today's propeller planes. This can reach Svalbard and North Norway with a lot of equipment and more doctors and nurses on board. A herd shall be introduced into the rear guard, which may be collected in the event of sickness and absence. This is new and provides the service with increased availability and better preparedness compared to today’s contract. The award criteria ‘quality’ and ‘price’ were weighted in the evaluation of the offers by 60 pst respectively. and 40 pst. All offers scored high on quality. On the scale used, one of the air transport offers was best scored with a score of 10, while the selected offer from Babcock scored 9.51. The decisive thing was that air transport was significantly higher in price: 47 million. kr annually, or close to 300 mill. kr during the first six-year period. From 2019, the Ambulance Aviation Service will cost approx. One hundred million. kr more than it does today. This means that the expenditure of regional health enterprises is rising from about 400 million. kr in the year to approx. 500 million. kr annually. On 8 September 2016, my State Secretary Anne Grethe Erlandsen held a meeting with the Norwegian Flyer Federation. This was the theme of the air ambulance service tendering process. The Führerverbund expressed its concerns during the meeting, and they were particularly concerned about not having to face a situation where a foreign operator was brought in. They considered it essential that Norwegian labour law should apply. With a foreign company, they meant, for example: that a strike could not be stopped by forced pay. This, of course, was an important point. The air ambulance service required the agreements to be governed by Norwegian law, including mediation and arbitration proceedings before Norwegian courts. The contract with Babcock shows that they establish a Norwegian company to manage the Norwegian business. At the meeting with the State Secretary, it was agreed that the Norwegian Führer Association would draw up a note of its concerns and that the Department would pass it on to the Air ambulance Service. The Ministry forwarded the note to the head of the air ambulance service as agreed on 14 September 2016. Since the result of the tendering process became known last year, there have been some plays related to the terms of the new contract with a new operator. In connection with Babcock’s announcement of pilot positions at the end of last year, the Führerverbund concerned, inter alia: the recruitment situation – this is based on the expectation that they would have worse working conditions than in air transport. In the last few months, today’s supplier has had problems delivering the necessary preparedness in the service to which the company has committed itself. In parts of March, a large proportion of air transport pilots were out of regular service. This must be seen in the context of redundancies and that the company employs experienced pilots to train new staff to enter and replace those who end up. As a result, it is difficult to cover all the guards. The situation that arose at the end of April, when the ambulance planes all over the country were on the ground, came after that there was no solution in the negotiations between the Norwegian Flyer Federation and Babcock about the transfer of the pilots to the new company. The Führerbunder said in meeting me that they felt that Babcock had gone back on previous offers. I am pleased that Babcock and NHO have now come up with a new offer, and that there is dialogue between the parties. In the NOU 2015, the Emergency Committee considered that the issue of public operation of the air ambulance service should be addressed. The Norwegian Air Ambulance Foundation expressed in the hearing that such an investigation would have to cover more than just public operations. Aviation is a highly complex sector, both technically and safely. Aviation requires a completely different competence from that currently held by healthcare. That is why, in my opinion, it is not a competence that it is natural for the specialist health service to build up on its own. The air ambulance service in Norway was established, as mentioned earlier, as a national service in 1988. It has always been delivered by private suppliers. The private actors have been pioneers in the development and operation of the service, and we have a long and good tradition of cooperation. This case shows that operator switching can be challenging. Good and binding agreements and systematic preparations are important for success. A similar acquisition for a new contract has recently been carried out for the ambulance helicopter service. The contract was concluded in June 2016 and implies that Norsk Luftambulanse AS is the operator of all its ambulance helicopters from 1 June of this year. Air transport AS, which has been the operator on three of the bases, thus leaves as an operator. There have been no particular problems with the transition from Air Transport to Norwegian Air Ambulance, which is owned by the Norwegian Air Ambulance Foundation. A central issue in this case is the issue of business transfer, i.e. the requirement for staff to be transferred from air transport to Babcock at the time of operator change. As you know, it has not been made a requirement in this tender that a transfer of business should be made. It is also not common for the specialist health service to lay down other conditions for the transfer of activities in tendering procedures for the purchase of healthcare. The air ambulance service expressed in connection with the acquisition that the transfers to a new operator, if any, could lead to a transfer of activities in line with the provisions of the Working Environment Act. In this case, it was assessed that it was not possible to conclude on this before the conclusion of the contract. This was something that any new service provider would have to consider in their offer. The air ambulance service informed the operators about these conditions. The terms and conditions of aviation have changed in recent years. In general, wage growth has been reduced and pension systems changed. I do not know and should not know the details of the salary offers from the new operator. However, the air ambulance service has been aware that the pay conditions for the pilots of Babcock are competitive with the major commercial carriers in Norway. The term ‘social dumping’, which some have used, is therefore not relevant in this context. At the same time, of course, I have a lot of understanding that no one wants to go down in pay. Yesterday Marianne Telle chose to resign as director of Health North. She did this for the sake of Health North and the rest of the board's ability to lead the health region in this demanding period. It's a wish that I respect, and I'm grateful for the job she's done. I would like to stress that no information has been provided suggesting that Marianne Telle has participated in the procurement process in such a way that it has influenced the process, or has received information that has given her benefits in her management position. Yesterday, a representative proposal was made to cancel the tender with Babcock and to continue the agreement between the Air ambulance service and air transport. There is nothing about the situation that has now arisen to suggest that Babcock is unable to provide air ambulance services in line with the contract. Until 1 July 2019, the current operator, Air Transport, is responsible for the service and contributing to a seamless transition to a new supplier. The contract with Babcock has been concluded legally and cannot be reversed without significant costs and legal consequences for regional health businesses. Of course, any contract can be concluded, but in this context it will have major economic consequences for healthcare, whether through legal conciliation or legal proceedings. Babcock has several aeroplanes and a production simulator. To date, they have used considerable resources to discharge the contract. The costs incurred are not only those for which one becomes liable but also those for which future income is due. These are significant amounts, which would then have to go at the expense of patient treatment. An extension of today’s air transport contract without a new bidding round would initially be illegal. By concluding the agreement with Babcock and continuing to cooperate with today's operator, we would therefore have stood without a legal service offer to the country's population. We would also not have received the technical and emergency improvement of the service from the next summer, which I have described earlier. I'll strongly warn you that we're going into such a situation. It is still more than one year for the new operator to assume responsibility for the service. It is very unfortunate if the population over a long period of time should feel insecure about the ability of health services to maintain their preparedness and provide the necessary health care in the event of acute illness or injury. All parties have served the service as normal. Plans are now being made to deal with possible response interruptions until the acquisition on 1 July next year. This case has also raised a political discussion regarding the use of private operators and tenders. I would like to point out that the Air ambulance service has had good and constructive cooperation with private operators over several decades with changing governments and magnification. We should not forget that it was private who took the initiative for medical personnel ambulance helicopters and subsequently established the Norwegian Air Ambulance Foundation. Very many Nordics have supported the foundation through both membership and financial contributions. After 1988, the air ambulance was a publicly funded national service, but still provided by private individuals. The Foundation’s work continues to be largely publicised, which also contributes significantly to research and innovation in emergency medicine. If the operational responsibility for which Norsk Luftambulance is responsible today should have been transferred to the public, I am sure that it would also have been controversial and led to significant political discussion. In acquisition processes, it is necessarily the case that some will not compete. We have to respect that. The Code of Public Acquisition is a tool to ensure the efficient and fair use of public resources. It also contributes to a better health service for the population. I am pleased that there now seems to be contact between the parties to find a solution. It is essential that all actors do their utmost to secure the service in the future. I feel that the new operator is now clear that they want to take over all the pilots with their skills. That's a good starting point.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e252	The President will now propose, according to Storting’s Rules of Procedure, Section 45, that a brief comment round be opened, limited to one post of up to 5 minutes from each party group and a closing statement from the Council of State of up to 5 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e259	The situation is serious for this important preparedness. Today, the University Hospital of North Norway reported the following: Standby is out of operation in Alta, Base 1 and 2, and in Brønnøysund. At Gardermoen, the standby is also disabled due to a lack of crew. Here in the United Kingdom, the Minister of Health has explained the contractual commitments and the law on public acquisitions and the history from 1988 until today. I think it's discouraging. It tells me that the Minister of Health does not take the matter seriously. The solution for this national service was quite different in 1988 from both aviation and service in 2018. Tomorrow’s solutions to future challenges have always been a difficult approach. I expect a Minister of Finance, perhaps also a Minister of Industry, to keep the public acquisitions tab high, but the Storting must be able to expect a Minister of Health to raise the tab for patients and the patient rights law at its highest. In Norway, medical treatment is available, including emergency medical care. This is a national emergency crisis, which unfortunately has been well notified. As early as 2013, then health minister Jonas Gahr stepped down the Emergency Committee to look at the prehospital services. The NOU, first of all, as the Minister of Health said, described this whole situation we are now facing as a major potential risk to the service. The Labour Party and most of the parties in Stortinget have requested follow-up to these recommendations, recommendations that the Minister of Health has chosen to ignore. There was a clear recommendation to investigate how this service should be organised, with less risk than the current tender model. If you want to explore an opportunity for ideal actors, the Workers' Party believes it would also be a good solution. The point is that this was not done. Advice from the professional team was not listened to. In September 2016, the invitation to tender criteria for the air ambulance mission were sent to the hearing. That was also said by the Council of State in its presentation. The Medical Association, the Nursing Association and the LO called for warnings and met with political leadership in the department. They were correctly consulted on the requirement of Norwegian business authorisation and Norwegian pay and working conditions, but they were not consulted on the requirement to ensure critical personnel by entering the business transfer into the tender. Another Minister of Emergency Response, the Minister of Justice, has done a lot to refute what the Minister of Health has done in terms of preparedness for Svalbard. There, demands were made for business transfer to secure personnel and to prevent the current crisis. I also want to underline that 13 pst. the staff of the current operator cancelled their jobs as early as February of this year. This is not a matter between two parties. It would not make any difference if the operator did not go from the negotiating table in April, as one did, well to notice after agreement had been reached. This is a proposal for consideration in the Committee. The working party will ensure a rapid examination of this proposal. But I would like to stress that the Minister of Health is responsible for this service, even though the Storting is now choosing to engage. The process associated with the board of directors in Health Nord, I choose not to comment, only acknowledge that there has been a relationship that has led to a failure of confidence in the entire tender process. It is the Minister of Health who has given him confidence. I record that the director of Health Nord has withdrawn from office. The health service for which the Council of State is responsible is now leaning on military helicopters, which his government also wants to move out of the region. We expect immediate responsibility to be taken, and we will submit to a rapid examination of the proposal in the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e280	Air ambulance transport is a very important part of emergency preparedness in large parts of our country, especially in the three northernmost states. In order to ensure that citizens can feel safe, it is very important to know that the air ambulance is ready to move out quickly when acute incidents occur, to help save lives and health and to ensure that patients can be transported quickly to hospitals and get further help. On Friday 27 April, the ambulance planes all over the country were on the ground because the pilots had signed up ‘not fit for flight’. This is probably due to a conflict between the pilots of the current operator and the new operator, Babcock. For both myself and the Advance Party, ambulance preparedness is a very important part of the health care in North Norway, and it is very important for people to feel safe. I therefore believe that the situation that has arisen, with a severe deterioration in air ambulance preparedness, is very serious. It is important that prompt action is taken to ensure that preparedness is restored and that people, especially in Northern Norway, but also throughout the country, can be confident that we have a good preparedness, even until the agreement with the new company enters into force from July 2019. It is therefore very good that the health business has taken action — and is in the process of taking action — in both the short and the long term. As the Council of State has also said, there is already a leased-in aircraft. Two additional helicopters have been inserted from the Defense Department, and there have been signs that it is possible to get another plane. I perceive that the healthcare company is working on a solution to care for the population, so that you get help when you need it. But I also feel that there are forces that really contribute to further crisis maximisation and derailment of the debate, and that talk about setting up your own government air ambulance service, something like that. Both the representative of Moxnes from Red and his party trap superior and politician Mads Gilbert in North Norway has taken the floor. Several other parties have agreed to reverse the concluded contract with a new company, which is now trying to make a scapegoat even though it is actually 14 months for this company to take over the contract after the current operator. Using this case to promote an old-fashioned view where you should have the state to operate everything, I believe is unfair. Of course, it must be possible to believe something about the new agreement, but trying to give the new company, which does not take over until next year, the blame for the problems that the current operator has is not acceptable to the new operator. It is primarily the company that delivers the service today, which is responsible for securing the citizens of North Norway’s preparedness and security until the new agreement enters into force. It should be borne in mind that the operator has been the operator of air ambulance services in approximately. 20 years, have operated private air ambulance transport in all these years, and have both won and lost contracts to provide air ambulance services. It is also important to note that when an air ambulance service was established in Norway for about a year. 40 years ago, it was private initiative and the collection of funds that provided us with this very important service in Norway. I would like to thank the Council of State for the presentation. The Progress Party knows that the Council of State is following this closely, and that the health company is working to find a solution to ensure that people in need of air ambulance services in North Norway are confident that there is a proper and good preparedness to ensure health care for their citizens when they need it. I think it might be nice to be open that there are certain things about the tendering process that you can afterwards see that could have been handled differently. But that is what I assume the healthcare company will take with them the next time they publish tenders, and that they will look at the experience they have gained. Instead of trying to create fear and uncertainty, which some batches in this room carry on, I believe it is much more important to quickly put in place solutions such as goods, which ensure proper preparedness and security for the population. Let me therefore make it clear, at the end of the day, that for the Progress Party, ambulance preparedness in North Norway is so important that we need to get ready as quickly as possible. I therefore expect all parties to settle down, so that we can return to a normal emergency situation as soon as possible – this in order to ensure that patients and residents in North Norway will again be fully confident that they will get help when they need it, regardless of where in North Norway they live.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e303	The air ambulance saves lives in the most critical situations. This will have to work. Last year, the HF air ambulance contracted a new contract with the foreign company Babcock without pilot or other personnel being transferred. It shall apply from July 2019. The supply as water was fourth best in quality. They won the prize. The operator change has already given the consequence of 13 pst. pilots have finished, 20 have been offered a new job after the holiday. The result is that the watch lists are not working, planes are on the ground, standby is not in place. Its longer time has passed, the worse it has been. Attempts to replace a lack of preparedness from today's operator, who obviously loses their pilots, weakens other emergency services. Rented aeroplanes that are unfamiliar with conditions and are not used to by healthcare professionals will never be able to replace the work teams who know how to do the job under any circumstances. So, Hoeie's statement. Governments admit that the situation is serious, but he does not take self-criticism. He's defending the supply process. He doesn't ask how this could happen. He leans on the leaders and on the care-for-responsibilities of the leaders. Governments say that supply is common, and supply is not illegal. I had expected a more humble state council, as we know that there are people with risk births who have been born in a permanent clinic. It's just that life has not been lost. We have previously also heard assurances about all sorts of new measures that will make it a better offer when the new operator takes over. I want to remind you that they didn't win on quality, they won on price. I have problems trusting a Council of State which, in response to the Storting on questions from me on 23 March, indicates that the HF Air Ambulance Service has informed that the situation will be ‘improved in addition to the spring as new pilots have received the necessary training’. We got this insurance in April – how can we trust that the insurances we now have become a reality, and that the situation will not get worse, as it has happened before? For central parity, it is obvious that the contract should be cancelled. What kind of organisation and agreement will replace the completely scandalized agreement will be an important issue. The circumstances surrounding the conclusion of the contract need to be carefully reviewed, especially since the manager of Telle in Health Nord HF has withdrawn as a result of his/her dealings with the case. In their recommendations to the government, the acute selection has asked us to assess public operation and to point out that the model of supply poses a great risk. It will cost to cancel a contract, but it will also cost not to do so. Corrupted life also has a value. Yesterday, the majority decided that one should deal with the proposal by Red. I would like to stress that such urgent procedure should lead to a hearing in the Committee, so that we get all the facts and consequences of the conclusion of the new agreement on the table. This is how we can ensure a serious treatment, based on the seriousness of the case. I found it sad that some parties said that other nerds came up with fear. Actually, we're not the ones that are afraid, there's people out there, who know they don't have the readiness. I would like to stress that until the decision has been taken by the Stortinget, it is the Council of State that has the full and complete responsibility for life not being lost. There must be no doubt about this. The distribution from state council today is not known for its security.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e320	The crisis in the north would never happen. There should have been safe public operation or long-term cooperation with ideals. When you first choose to commercialise the offer further, you would never have liked these requirements, or with a lack of business transfer requirements. And when it first happens – yes, you shouldn't have chosen offers based on price and not quality. The Minister of Health is responsible. Either he knows what's going on and still let the crisis come, or he doesn't have control of the health companies. I'm not sure what's worse. Norway is a long-distance country. In the long north, the distances are so huge that life will be lost without an ambulance plane. From Honningsvåg to Hammerfest, it takes almost three hours by car. It's their local hospital. The decentralised food supply requires the ability to carry incubators by plane. From Vardø to the hospital in Tromsø – for very serious, acute cases – it takes 11.5 hours by car. We cannot adopt ourselves out of geography, but we have a responsibility to secure measures that give the citizens of the north security back. That's why we need ambulance planes that go. Yesterday, four out of nine planes were standing on the ground. Pilots and technicians flee the service – special skills we can't magic back once it's gone. But maybe the worst of all: in the VG, we could read about how the extra plane that was supposed to save baby life by carrying cussies, actually can't carry a single cussy with a single too early-born child who could lose his life. I quote the head of the Children’s Department: ‘It’s just a matter of time before life is lost.’ Enough is enough. The security of people in the north is threatened. Had this happened in the East, I think the crisis had been solved a long time ago. The answers from the Council of State don't hold. That is why the Storting must act. If the government is unable to take its responsibility to ensure safety in the north, SV is willing to impose that responsibility on them. In the course of the proceedings, SV will propose that the government take direct control of the HF Air ambulance service until the crisis is over. We're going to require business transfer now, so we're going to ensure the specialist competence we need for the preparedness – for the pilots, as the state council said, but also for the technicians, as one needs to get the planes going. Operation and maintenance of aeroplanes shall take place in Norway. We have to make sure that we have control of these critical measures, because no matter how competent the pilots are, aircraft are not working. And then finally, if necessary, we will also cancel the agreement. It may cost, but we can't sacrifice lives in the north to save possible fines on a contract. But we also have to make sure that this doesn't happen again. Therefore, SV will also use the possibility to propose a review of the whole process around the inception of the tender, in accordance with Section 19 of the Rules of Procedure. We want the government to finally follow up the 2015 investigation – as it was supposed to have done before, and as Höie would have followed up before – with the investigation of the public or non-profit operation of the air ambulance. And we need a separate case on how competitive outsourcing and commercial actors affect our national preparedness. The crisis in the north should have been stopped a long time ago. It's the Minister of Health's responsibility. Either Höie has been in control of the health company, he has known what has happened, had knowledge and deliberately led us into the crisis, or then Höie has once again shown that he lacks the ability to run the health companies, who have become a state in the state, and is once again trying to control himself. The security of people is most important.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e335	The security of the population is the most important thing, and we cannot live with uncertainty about preparedness or with reduced preparedness. We need to be sure that people who become acutely ill get the help they need when the disease or the damage strikes – especially in areas with long distances, where it is both far to medical care, far to doctor and not least far to hospital. This is the responsibility of the government and the Council of State alone. Governments must secure the population of the whole country, and in particular the farthest north, so that they do not remain standing without critical infrastructure such as ambulance aircraft. Air ambulance is more than transport. It is specialised services that transport and treat seriously ill and injured people, and not ordinary goods. It could be about life. Air ambulance services in the north operate over long distances that are difficult to deal with to us living in the south. I want to mention that between Tromsø and Kirkenes there are 428 kilometers in the airline. Then it's not enough that the council says you've got more people on AMK. They're sitting on a phone far away. Nor is it enough to get better ambulance services, because they actually have to be flown to get where they're going, when the distances are so large. Then the minutes get long, and people with competence have to get where the patient is, to save what they can save, when the distances are so big. Treatment must work along the way, both in airplanes and in cars. Although the Minister of Health should be entitled to the tender in line with the law on public acquisitions, and considers that there is no reason to cancel the contract, the problem is that companies have chosen to conclude an agreement that is not good enough. It seems that undertakings are willing to take a risk because they have not required a transfer of business. Then you know that you get a challenge. It's an assessment that we can question, and as the Council itself said, air ambulance service is not actually a specialist health service. Flying patients wasn't what hospitals were really going to do, we could put that on the offer. At least then we have to ensure that one gets that competence and business transfer. For the Christian People's Party, this is a sign of the corporate model, where the Council of State gives power to the four health companies. The four health establishments are once again delegating power to the HF of the ambulance service and to the HF of the hospital purchase. The distance between political leadership and those that determine this in enterprises is going to be long, and we're losing political direction. I ask a lot of questions about this model. This clearly shows this matter. In any case, the government must deal with their present situation in which the population and health professionals experience a danger to life and health. It's unacceptable. The Christian People's Party requires the government to ensure that it is prepared at a professionally good level across the country, with urgent compensatory measures, now and in the long term – that we also find solutions for this matter that are long-term and predictable. The air ambulance service started with people out in practice so they didn't get patients in fast enough, and they created a service that the hospitals and patients have benefited from. We shall now examine this matter within the Committee, in a timely manner, and secure this service.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e352	Today's situation is more difficult than we can accept, said Erna Solberg to the media a week ago. She's right about that. But the crisis we are now facing should not surprise anyone at all. This is the story of a notified disaster, a direct result of the tendering policy for which the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health are responsible. Already in 2015, Bent Höie received the investigation from the Emergency Committee. They warned in clear order that an operator switching could break the good interaction that has been established between the operator and health business for many years. The selection wrote: ‘The air ambulance service is at risk and this interaction is a prerequisite for the safe execution of the mandates. The committee considers that the issue of public operation should be fully addressed.’ Haye disregarded these vital advice, left the report in a drawer and let the destructive tendering process go its way, where the cheapest tender won, without any requirement that the current staff, with their decisive special competence, should follow. Therefore, the operator is now losing air transport for essential flight, engineering and management competence. The forecast is now that they can lose 75 of their approximately 100 highly experienced pilots and 14 technicians by the end of June 2018. Then today's serious situation becomes a mild spring wind towards what awaits us until the fall. As long as the service is open to tender, we may increase our competence every six years. It makes no sense for a service to ensure the safety, life and health of the population, which also has important national emergency services. Of course, the price of an unstable service is much higher than the very modest savings made by the bureaucrats and the health minister by choosing the cheapest tender. Not to mention the most important thing: this has triggered an acute danger to the lives and health of the population. It is not a North Norwegian crisis alone, it affects the whole nation. Fly's on bases all over the country. Bent Höie is responsible for the situation, but does not take responsibility. Instead, he appears to be a lawyer for the private company Babcock by claiming that it is illegal to cancel the contract with the company. It's absurd. In the event of the termination of the competitive tendering process itself because of the fact that the service is in the process of being sold, the entire tendering procedure is, of course, void. Then there is no crime to interrupt the contract. What the Minister of Health ought to care about is the acute danger of breaking the people's statutory right to immediate health care, even applying the Patient Rights Act and the Special Health Service Act, but that says Bent Höie nothing about it. The professionals who work in the services on a daily basis have provided a number of concerns that show with great seriousness how fundamental today’s crises are. They have been notified, but not heard. As lead nurses and doctors at both aircraft and helicopter bases on the Gardermoen, Ålesund and Tromsø wrote in the VG last week: The situation of the service ‘is a direct result of the outsourcing of this critical social service’. And on the other hand, ‘The public takeover work must begin now so that we can build on an air ambulance service that is now one of the best in the world. It is the personnel working in the air ambulance service — both air operations and medical — that is the most important resource. There's a resource we have to take care of, and not put off competition!' The time for empty chat is over, but Haye is the paralytic, stabs his head in the sand, repeats on autopilot that tender provides better services, while the service is in a deep crisis. Then the Storting must take responsibility and quickly deal with Red's proposals and quickly rectify the crisis, because it does not do the country's health minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e379	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister of Health for a long and good investigation, over half an hour. It seems that some of the opposition's health professionals were more concerned with their own pre-written posts than with hearing what the Council of State actually said. This is a fire that needs to be extinguished. When it's off, we get to focus on how to prevent later, possible future fires. Now I have been so lucky to be in a position to experience closely the seriousness of the situation handled by the Department of Health and, in particular, the Minister of Health. I think there's a lot of respect for it. I noticed that the head of the Workers' Party will have guarantees that the Health Minister will resolve this matter. Yes, he knows which toolbox the Minister of Health has in a matter like this – he has been the Minister of Health himself – and then it could actually be interesting, if it had been possible within this change of words, to hear Jonas Gahr Støre's response to how he would have handled this situation. So it's said that someone wants a separate airline to deal with this situation. I can't imagine a better outsourcing sector than an outsourcing service to deal with the ambulance situation, especially in North Norway. The state’s experience as owner of an airline is rather poor – to put it that way. I remember Richard Branson's words, he's the owner of Virgin Atlantic Airways. He was once asked how to become a millionaire. He said you're going to start as a billionaire and then buy an airline. So it's said, cancel the deal. Who will then take over – the company that is not able to solve its mission today, as the question was asked at most timely at the NRK yesterday?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e390	Several of the speakers have requested an action. In my presentation, I just went through what measures have been taken to do what is most important, namely to care for patients in this situation. It's to insert and use the agreement that we have with the Defense, use their helicopters that are staffed by doctors and health professionals, and put them into Finnmark, which is the hardest hit. It's buying extra flight capacity from Babcock, which is done, and it's of course strengthening the AMK Central in Tromsø, precisely because it's those who work there, who experience the increased pressure of having to deal with and prioritize in a difficult situation. I am therefore very pleased that that very measure has been implemented. It is also the case that we have a number of other measures that can be taken if the situation gets worse, as I also explained. What has been my main priority in the matter has just been to ensure that we put in place measures to protect patients in this situation. I have not heard any other proposal from the opposition but to cancel the contract that has been concluded and extend the existing contract. The first is completely possible, but very expensive. The last is illegal, and in addition, next summer we will be without legal service in this area. I'm all ears if the opposition has any other suggestions that might improve the situation of the patients than those that we've already put in, but I feel that no one has been critical of them, and of course we're all prepared to escalate these. Several have indicated that it is obvious that there should have been a requirement for a transfer of activities in this tender. Well, there have been no demands in the previous four rounds that have been in this area. It was not a requirement for Svalbard, as the representative Kjerkol claimed. On Svalbard there was no requirement for a transfer of business, but the company that won the contract was required to offer the pilots a job, but under the terms of the new company. It's actually the same thing as now with Babcock's offer. The situation in which we are now facing needs to be dealt with by me on what is my primary responsibility and my main priority, namely to ensure that the measures we are taking to deal with the situation prevent patients from being hit as much as possible, and to consider expanding and strengthening them as necessary. At the same time, of course, there is a strong desire for the parties that are now talking to each other to find a solution. Of course, today's company, which has today's contract, also has a responsibility to follow it up. I feel that this is working well at all levels of service. I follow this myself, from day to day. It depends very much on how it develops, not least in the negotiations, whether we need to escalate the measures further, or whether we can go into a more normal situation. I see some people question some of the measures. In a health emergency situation, it is not the individual measure — one helicopter, one aeroplane — that resolves a situation. It is the overall resources that are essential for the preparedness of the population. I know, of course, very well that a helicopter doesn't fly as far as a plane, but I also know that for some of the urgent tasks it will keep with a helicopter. That means that the capacity on aircraft is released to handle the missions that are more urgent. As I said in my statement: 35 pst. of the missions of the air ambulance aeroplanes currently scheduled to be transferred by patients after treatment. There is, of course, capacity that is prioritised in a situation where aircraft are on the ground. Health services have a long and good training in dealing with such situations. A good job is done in the demanding situation that we are currently facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e406	The debate on the presentation is thus closed. The President proposes that the report of the Minister of Health on ambulance aircraft in the north be annexed to the minutes. The representative, Mr V. Bollestad, has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e415	Is it possible to ask for the statement to follow the matter to the Committee so that we can have it as a background material for the work there? I'm asking the Storting for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e420	The representative of Ms Olaug V. Bollestad has then made a proposal that the statement should be addressed to the Health and Welfare Committee. – The President considers it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e436	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 50 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Green Party 5 minutes, Red 5 minutes and members of the Government 10 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of the parties and up to eight lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e449	First, I would like to thank the Committee for a long and thorough work. The Committee was informed on 16 June 2017. We've had hearings, and we've dealt with many, many difficult questions. Biotechnology offers many opportunities for human benefit, knowledge of causes of disease, more specific diagnostics and treatment, better manufacture of medicinal products and more opportunities in assisted fertilisation, but at the same time allows for a great deal of ethical reflection. Among other things, we can access information and knowledge about human genetic properties. Knowledge provides opportunities, but it can also lead to choices that result in a society where there is no room for everyone. The Committee has gathered on a good and strong opening chapter on the purpose paragraph of the law, for the benefit of people in a society where there is room for everyone. I will now go through some of the different chapters and positions that the different parties have taken, and then I will explain as the case-law rapporteur. Then I take something like the Christian People's Party representative. Different majority, alternately composed of the Workers' Party, Right, Advance Party, SV and Left, will repeal the prohibition of egg donation. A majority consisting of the Labour Party, the Progress Party and the Left promote the proposal for Decision I, in which they ask the Government to submit legislative proposals allowing egg donation according to the same guidelines as for semen donation. The centre party and the Christian People's Party argue against egg donation and promote a proposal where they ask the government not to facilitate egg donation in Norway. A majority consisting of the Labour Party, the Advance Party, SV and Left want to be allowed to donate redundant fertilised eggs from IVF treatment. SV promotes a proposal asking the government to return to Stortinget with a bill to allow egg donation with excess eggs, in accordance with the same strict rules as for sperm donation. The entire Committee agrees with the Government and the majority of the Biotechnology Council that surrogati is still to be banned in Norway. The Committee considers that there are major ethical, existential, emotional and legal challenges and costs of surrogati. The left is the only party that believes that it should be opened to altruistic surrogati. A majority consisting of the Labour Party, the Right, the Progress Party and the Left believe that persons using surrogati abroad are not to be penalised in Norway, both for the sovereignty of other countries and for the child's view of their own existence, while a minority want to follow the majority of the Biotechnology Council's view that this should be punishable, but in a way that does not go beyond the child who has come into the world. The Committee considers that Norway should work actively in international contexts to combat the exploitation of women in the international surrogati industry, where poor women are exploited for others to have their children. The Central Party and the Christian People's Party believe that all applications for sterilisation should be dealt with individually — when they come to Norway — and according to general guidelines for such adoption and without special treatment based on the methods used. A majority consisting of the Labour Party, the Progress Party, the SV and the Left believe, and it is probably also successively too many areas, that the restriction of the use of donor semen – that is also one of these issues – must be set at the number of families and not at the number of children, and suggests that the government should return to the Stortinge in an appropriate way to limit the use of donor semen to the number of families per donor and not the number of children per donor. The Central Party and the Christian People's Party are critical for increasing the number of children per donor in Norway. The Christian People's Party alone is pointing out that active recruitment for the donation of genetic material is a challenging matter purely ethical. The size believes that donation must still be non-anonymous, and that the requirement for the donor to be unknown must be continued. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Workers' Party, agrees that the age limit for the child to know who his or her father is, from now on, shall be 15 years. The Central Party, SV and the Christian People's Party stress that Norwegian authorities must ensure the rights and practices of children when they come to semen imported from other countries. In the notification, the Government proposes a non-punitive obligation for parents to inform the child of the existence of semen donation equivalent to the current obligation for parents to inform their children that they have been adopted. The whole of Storting agrees that such an obligation must be imposed — this in the interests of the child, that the child has a right to know who his or her father and mother are. So there's been a big discussion about egg donation, sperm donation, imports and whether you can store eggs when there's no disease. A majority have indicated that it is possible to store eggs and ovaries even without a medical indication, against a self-payment. So I'd say there's a lot of good things about the biotechnology law, but there's also some challenges where we separate teams in the committee. Among other things, one wants to allow one to expand this by discovering whether there are heritable diseases — although unknown to the carriers — with PGD tests and sorting away those that have facilities to become ill. All except the Christian People's Party support this offer. So the Christian People's Party and the Center Party alone are that we need to have a consciousness around that we don't have to increase this to apply much more diseases than what has been allowed to do today. Then I want to say that there have been many things that are possible technically. There are many things that are technically possible, but are not tested enough. One of those things is mitochondria donation, where a majority now say that it will accept and accept – not where we are now, but once in the future, when technically possible. There's a majority consisting of the Workers' Party, the Advance Party, the Left and the Left behind, while a minority says we don't know the consequences of that, and we don't want to open it up because there's big challenges to the hereditary properties that come. I'm going to conclude that it's a matter that's also very in, in time, and that goes on gene and retest, both as doping to perform more and also to gain knowledge of qualities that you have yourself. The Storting will continue to ban the creation of genetic changes through gene therapy that will inherit future generations. We're also critical of the sale and use of these self-tests, but there's a majority who still don't want to ban them. It's been demanding, there's been a lot of things, and I have 10 minutes on a big subject as the case-rapporteur. But from the point of view of the Christian People's Party, the whole purpose has been that there is much that is technically possible, and many who want to have children. We understand that wish, but we've set the child's perspective first – the kids' right to know who their father and mother are comes first, and then the adults' needs can come after it. At the same time, we in the Christian People's Party have also tried to say that we want to apply biotechnology to what is good for people, and what we can treat, but we have been critical of what we don't know about. With that, I take up the proposals that the Christian People's Party is part of, and what we stand alone about.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e487	The representative of Olug V. Bollestad has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e494	As politicians, it's not our job to create systems to push people into a template. I believe that diversity is a self-esteem, and it's not an invitation to rank family constellations. Love is the foundation for people wanting to share their lives, to have children and to set up a family. Therefore, my question to the Christian People's Party is: Does the Christian People's Party recognize that families come in many variants?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e499	Yes, it acknowledges the Christian People's Party. There are families in different constellations and a diversity. But when we've been negative about having a right to have a child, it's for the sake of the child and what's going on knowing who mother and father are. That question has been what has stood before the second choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e504	Christian People's Party warns against egg donation, among others with the argument that you should not have a mother other than the one who gives birth to you – as if this is something new. Many children in Norway already have a mother different from the one who gives birth to you — children born at adoption, children born at egg donation abroad, or even at surrogati, although Christian People's Party and SV share much of the scepticism there. I would strongly warn against sending a signal to the country's child who has a different mother than the one who bore them, that it is not Mother who has raised them and been happy in them. "Mother" is not just the biological source, but is the one who loves you and takes care of you. So my question to the Christian People's Party is: Isn't it the love of the child, your ability to care and to take care of, which is most important, and not the biological connection?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e511	Christian People's Party has never asked questions about whether you can be a good mother when you haven't born the child, either a good adoptive mother, a good foster mother or a good single mother. We have never asked questions about this. We think so. But the question for the Christian People's Party is whether you – as a society – should add up to being able to give birth to children when you don't have the origin as a mother, but you get an egg from another. It's a matter of structure as a society. But that as a society we should facilitate adoption, facilitate the reception of other children, or properly care for the children who have been born during egg donation abroad, that's quite clear. But we must have rules that are rules for our country, and then we have said that we do not want Norway to have a system that facilitates it, for children.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e516	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e521	The Biotechnology Act regulates very many important aspects of biomedicine, research and development with an enormous impact on many people. Good legislation in this field should balance important ethical considerations and the right of the population to good, safe healthcare. It may seem like a dilemma and a demanding balance, but historically, these challenges have proved to be something the world has solved in a good way; that's my claim. We are living today with safe medical advances would have been ahead of us. Norway, like other parts of the world, has made strict demands and has taken value considerations into account in what is possible and what should be allowed. Fortunately, the scare images we know from previous years, about the cultivation of genetically perfect humans, cloning or sorting, have not come true. The world has proved to be more responsible than the fear of the opposers, and inequality in humans has a self-esteem that not only we in the Nordic countries or other Western countries will hold back. The development of biomedicine has turned in the direction that we want to help people to live as good a life as possible based on their natural assumptions. For people with hereditary, serious or fatal diseases, it has meant new hope, new opportunities for treatment and relief, or a chance to produce their own children without fear of further serious diseases. The Labour Party believes this is a positive development that is not about stopping progress, but ensuring that the ethically strict requirements we set for research and development are maintained and respected for the benefit of people. When the Biotechnology Act was adopted in 2003, Stortinget decided that the law should be evaluated after five years of practice. The government we have today delivered the message at the end of the spring session in June 2017. It's probably an expression that in these questions there's been a standstill because of a slightly different majority of the Biggest. The communication highlights the different themes of the law, which the case-rapporteur explains well, but the government has not ventured to take a decision, leaving it to the majority of people to conclude. The attitude we are discussing today reflects well the majority of the Stortinge in matters that have been discussed for many years. For the Labour Party, this means that today we are involved in the formation of a majority in order to lift the ban on egg donation. We believe that egg donation of unfertilized eggs is basically about equality between women and men, because in couples where the man, for example. is infertile, has since about 1930 been able to receive help in the form of sperm donation. For many years now, we have had safe, good methods of harvesting eggs from women, and there are no longer rational reasons why women should not be able to help others voluntarily by donating. The fact that women can be exploited in vulnerable situations by pressure for egg donation would be very effective through strict restrictions on possible financial compensation, a question that is important for the Stortinge to come back to when the law comes to retreatment. That, moreover, women should be less able to choose for themselves whether to donate eggs away than men who have been able to donate semen, bottoms in attitudes that the Workers' Party does not stand behind. The working party wants egg donation to take place under the same conditions as sperm donation, with the child’s right to know its origin, which means that any donor child has the right to know its origin at the age of 18. We see no need to change the exact limit of sperm donation. The Labour Party will maintain the ban on surrogati in Norway and support the government in the fact that the ban on surrogati is a sufficient indication of Norway’s position on this and that the use of surrogati should not be punishable. This is for the sake of the eventually quite many surrogate children growing up in Norway. It is difficult to imagine how parents can be punished without this having negative consequences for their children. That is the basis of the Workers' Party's position. Other representatives from my party will speak in the debate on reproductive health. But for us, in particular, the question of foetal diagnostics and foetal medicine – and I'll talk a little more about it – will follow the good tradition of the country's competent foetal medical profession, namely the ability to save lives and start effective treatment as early as possible, where there are known and effective ways to help. For the Workers' Party, the opportunity to help and treat has led our approach to the Biotechnology Act. Preventing pain, suffering and early death for hereditary disease by using new medical methods has been important for the Workers' Party's attitude to this law. We believe that, in the past, we have managed to balance important ethical considerations against each other and yet are clear to get through changes that are right, even though the debate towards that conclusion has often been difficult. Many of us still remember the Mehmet case – the bleeding boy who was dependent on healthy stem cells. Finally, in the Workers' Party, we allowed parents to try to make siblings – a healthy child – to Mehmet via the PGD method, preimplantation diagnostics. These were not easy debates. If we were to make the fresh sibling as a medium just for others, the opponents said at that time. But parents aren't like that. Everyone who has children knows that you're going to love the new child just as much, and that the new child will live his whole life in the certainty that it saved his big brother's life. The danger of having a new sick child also weighed heavily to allow parents to use this method in their time. Only this one difficult case shows that there are many ethical issues that arise in the development of biotechnology, and the question of biotechnology is rarely black and white. In this setting, Stortinget is still moving a few spots to give better help to families who are involuntary orphans, but also to families who have serious hereditary diseases. The Workers' Party is pleased to contribute. Then I'll bring up proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, SV and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e556	The representative of Ingvild Kjerkol has drawn up the proposal to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e563	The Labour Party notes that the new Biotechnology Act must allow for mitochondrial donation and that the medical profession must assess when it is to be implemented in practice. I wonder if we can interpret it so that the Workers' Party has finished talking about the ethical issues of mitochondria donation and the fact that it gives children genetic material from three parents? Is it the case that the Workers' Party has concluded – that we do not need to discuss it anymore, now there is only a practical question of mitochondrial donation to take place in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e568	The working party has discussed this question carefully. I might share with the representative of Stensland the implicit description that there has not been a large public debate on this in Norway. The Labour Party has tried to raise that debate. The Health and Welfare Committee was in London two years ago. Then we followed this discussion in the United Kingdom, which has now done so legally. I mean the description that these children get three parents, is a misunderstanding, because there are very few genes going on, and that you also prevent it, in the way you have chosen to set this up in the United Kingdom, by the fact that boys don't carry this on in inheritance. For us, the ethical assessment here is that these children are born in Norway today, with prospects for short lives filled with suffering, pain and all that comes with them. For us, the ethical assessment, by saying no to a hope and an opportunity for treatment for these families, will be what weighs most.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e577	The government suggests that you lower your age to know the donor's identity from 18 to 15, and the Labour Party is probably the only party against that change. Today, a person must be 16 years old to be allowed to change legal gender. At the age of 16, a self-determined abortion is also permitted. I see that the Labour Party argues in the matter that one thinks that a 15-year-old is not mature enough to receive such information, and that it is a good principle that one must be legal awakening. Isn't this the way to make grown - ups take care of your children? How can the Labour Party defend itself at an 18-year limit in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e584	I do not think the comparisons made by the representative Toppe are relevant to our position of not changing this age limit now. In the question of legal sex, there is a process that happens with children and their parents, at a time when the gender expressions come out in their full flower, and then it is natural that there is an age limit associated with the development of gender expressions. Firstly, we believe that it is not well-founded and justified why this is in the child’s interest. We believe that this is a break-in time for children, and that it is natural to link this to the usual authority age, which is 18 years old, and that it is well justified in our comments. We also do not think the representative Toppe has the basis to claim that we argue that children are immature when they are 16 years old.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e591	The working party wants all women who want it to be offered early ultrasound. The working party will also conduct the NIPT test for pregnant women entitled to foetal water diagnostics. At the same time, the Workers' Party's programme states that the Workers' Party will'refuse a development in which parents can choose characteristics for their children'. The Christian People's Party believes that NIPT testing and foetal water diagnostics can be good when we look for conditions that can be treated, for example. different types of blood in mother and children. The Christian People's Party is for everything that can save lives, and we find it a challenge to hunt for qualities and conditions that cannot be treated. Does the Workers' Party agree that there is a difference between using a method of saving lives and using the same method with the aim of detecting chromosome abnormalities, properties and conditions that cannot be treated?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e600	What is important for the Workers' Party is to ensure good health care when it is available. For my part, I just want to say that the meeting with the foetermedical profession at the National Center for Foetal Medicine at St. Olav's hospital was the one that tipped my point of view on early ultrasound. We have a state for twins today that can be treated, what is called transfusion syndrome – Oluk V. Bollestad is a professional, she knows what I'm talking about. If it is not discovered in week 12, it is too late to apply treatment, a treatment that Norwegian twin parents receive today via Germany. There are 24 twins each year because of this disorder. It's an entire school class. That alone is enough to ‘back’ my position. As long as these are offers that are used, and as parents visit in private, we believe that it should be for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e607	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e612	Biotechnology creates both new opportunities and ethical dilemmas. In the right, we assume that ethics and values should set the framework for the use of technology, not vice versa. At the same time, ethical considerations and values need to be discussed and weighed up in the light of societal developments and the opportunities offered by technology. All people have an inherent and inviolable self-value. This is the basis of all the Right’s position in this matter. As a result, all humans have the same value, regardless of their characteristics, abilities and level of function. Human life cannot therefore be graduated or ranked. It is also due to the fact that no human being is to be used as a medium for other humans. We want a society where there's room for everyone. At the same time, the Right places emphasis on the individual's freedom, personal responsibility and the right to determine his or her own life. This is particularly true in matters relating to private matters. The state must give room for different choices in life and not unduly restrict the individual’s or family’s right to shape their own future. Although the individual should have great freedom in private matters, it is legitimate to regulate matters which also affect the rights of other people and important social interests. Biotechnology and genetic engineering include: the protection of the rights of children and the consideration of the living conditions of future generations could imply restrictions on the individual's self-determination. Another aspect that needs to be taken into account in this debate is the administrative responsibility that we as politicians have. This implies that today's generation must seek to give future generations at least as good living conditions as today. The policy must therefore ensure that the medical and technological advances that we allow will benefit people. Pre-precautionary considerations must therefore guide issues where medical treatment may have adverse and irreversible consequences for our descendants. Right will develop a policy for biotechnology and genetic engineering based on an assessment of relevant ethical considerations and values, in the light of medical and technological opportunities, international conventions, national and international social conditions. Regulations of other countries may also be a relevant consideration, but one must always consider them in the light of our own views on ethics, values and what is an appropriate national regulation. The fact that something is allowed in another country should not only be a decisive argument for something that otherwise violates what is considered nationally to be fundamental ethical considerations. The evaluation we are examining today also addresses questions related to gene therapy. Gene therapy involves making changes to our genetic material to treat disease or affect biological functions. The right is in favour of gene therapy and re-editing providing better medical treatment for a variety of diseases and conditions. The use of somatic gene therapy, which involves changes in the patient’s own cells without being inherited, must be subject to a regular assessment of the medical benefits, costs and risks to the individual. This implies that a serious disease need not necessarily exist in order to apply this technology. On the other hand, we will not allow gene therapy and re-editing which do not have a medical purpose, but which only aims to improve human abilities and properties. This will break with the value of man's inviolable self-esteem and undermine the goal of a society with space for all. Genotherapy in germ cells, embryos or fertilised eggs involving permanent changes in heritable facilities involves a significant ethical dilemma due to the potential risk of incalculable and unfortunate consequences for future generations, despite the fact that such treatment could potentially provide better health and living conditions for humans. Therefore, in cases where gene therapy and re-editation lead to changes in heritable facilities, the Right will place crucial emphasis on pre-war considerations. This implies that such treatment should be allowed only if the risk of undesirable effects can be excluded, including for future generations. At the same time, more research on gene therapy should be opened up in order to provide us with more knowledge and a better basis for decision-making. A fertilized egg is the seed of a human life. This suggests a need for a framework and regulation of how the fertilised egg is treated. Right-wing believes that fertilisation of eggs for research purposes alone will mean an instrumental approach to human life that cannot be accepted. Under some conditions, research into fertilised eggs that are prolific and in any case to be destroyed may be legitimate. The right considers that this can only be allowed for up to 14 days after conception, as a new development of an embryo starts from this stage. Within this framework, genetic modification of surplus fertilised eggs to be destroyed may also be permitted by a Right-View if this may provide knowledge essential to contributing to better health and living conditions. Right-wing believes that embryo research will cross a fundamental ethical boundary that is important for the protection of human inviolable self-value. Such research will make one life a means of another, and we therefore oppose allowing such research. Many technological advances make it possible for the involuntary childless to have children. Right-wing believes that individuals should have great freedom to mold their own family life and to make choices for themselves and their own. However, the regulation in this area must also be based on the rights of the child and the need for protection. Individuals should have the freedom and responsibility to make good choices in life for themselves and their families. The family is an important foundation of society, and there must be room for different forms of life and family life. At its national meeting in spring, the right decided that the offer of assisted fertilisation must be extended to the same extent if the conditions for providing the child with safe and good growth conditions are met in the individual case. This requirement must apply mutatis mutandis to couples offered assisted fertilisation. This view is also evident from our comments in the position of the case. At the same time, each human being has the right to know his biological origin. This can be of fundamental importance in understanding and knowing its identity, its background and its history. All donor children born by donation in Norway should therefore have the right to know their biological origin at the age of 15 years. Therefore, the right considers that only semen donation with a known donor should be allowed. Fortunately, lowering the age limit from 18 to 15 will have a majority in committee. Egg donation can give women and couples with fertility problems an opportunity to have their own biological children. Egg donation means that a child has both an egg standard and a mother who has brought the child forward. Allowing egg donation will contribute to equal treatment of couples where the man is infertile, and couples where the woman is infertile. Technological developments have led to low-risk intervention and treatment associated with egg donation. This is also a choice the woman takes herself. In the case of egg donation, which in the case of normal pregnancy, a biological relationship is established between mother and child through pregnancy. If the donor egg is fertilised with the partner’s sperm, the child will have a genetic relationship with the father and biological relationship with the mother. In the case of semen donation, the child is only genetically related to the mother. Egg donation is therefore not directly comparable to semen donation. However, the right considers that the differences are not large enough to justify that one should be prohibited, while the other is allowed. Therefore, the right will allow egg donation in Norway, which is agreed by a majority of the Health Committee. Egg donation must be allowed, as in the case of semen donation, only with a known donor and parents of children born after egg or semen donation, obligations to tell the child about it as soon as it is advisable. The conditions for egg donation must be regulated. Important questions to clarify are the age of the donor and the recipient, the combination of egg and semen donation and economic conditions around donation and treatment. Today, the storage of unfertilised eggs and ovaries is reserved for women meeting the requirements for assisted fertilisation or for women undergoing treatment that may impair fertility. In the Biotechnology Communication, the Government proposes that the right to the storage of unfertilised eggs and ovary tissues on a medical basis should also include medical conditions that may lead to infertility at an early age. This is supported today by a unanimous committee. On the other hand, there is a question of egg and ovary storage should be allowed for all women, including on a non-medical basis. It is widely known that egg quality decreases with the age of the woman and that women have a shorter reproductive period than men. From the age of 32, female fertility is gradually reduced. This process accelerates from the age of 37 and women cannot be expected to be fertile after age 45. The right considers that the storage limit for frozen ova and embryos after assisted fertilisation should be considered, but that an offer of storage should not be allowed for all women, as it could lead to a materialisation of reproduction and contribute to the development of pressure on the woman from e.g.. employers or others to postpone pregnancy to a more ‘appropriate’ time. With this, pregnancy will be seen more as something that can be adapted, deferred and down-prioritized. In addition to being negative in itself, this will contribute to a further increase in the mean age of pregnant women. In general, it is assumed that the risk of complications during pregnancy and childbirth increases with the age of the woman. It is believed that it is also better for the child with parents who are not much above fertile age. The evaluation also addresses the question of surrogati. Surrogati can give childless persons an opportunity to have children. However, the right considers that surrogati breaks the natural bond between the child and the mother who gives birth to it, in a way that can impose a significant burden on both the child and surrogacy mother. This poses a risk both to the child and to the surrogate mother that cannot be balanced for the sake of adults who want children. In addition, commercial surrogati involves an unacceptable instrumentalisation of the pregnancy that makes both the body of the surrogacy mother and the child a potential commodity. This can be particularly problematic when surrogacy has few resources, which limits her real freedom to make a choice that involves major ethical dilemmas. Another question relates to foetal diagnostics. Foetal diagnostics can provide important information on the health or genetic properties of the foetus. This must be distinguished from studies in the context of maternity care, for example. routine ultrasound examination. The right considers that there should still be a provision for routine examinations as part of maternity care, where the intention is to follow the development of the child. On the other hand, the public shall not facilitate routine screening of the characteristics, conditions or disease of a foetus without a specific risk to this effect. The right considers that the public offer of foetal diagnostics must be primarily for medical purposes with a view to diagnosing serious conditions in the child who can be prevented or treated or who requires a specific follow-up by means of maternity care. The current legislation on the provision of foetal diagnostics only exceptionally, taking into account the life situation of pregnant women, should be continued. An extension of the offer of study and diagnostics without medical justification could lead to a pressure to sort away fetuses based on characteristics, which would undermine the value of a society with space for all. In addition, such offers would imply that the scarce resources of healthcare are used for offers that are not necessary on the basis of a medical justification. There will not be enough professional competence or capacity in healthcare to provide all a routine offer of an examination of all foetuses with a view to detecting possible diseases or conditions. When foetal diagnostics are offered, the most gentle and effective diagnostic method should be offered to pregnant women. Pregnancies and couples who choose to accept offers of foetal diagnostics shall be offered genetic guidance. The prohibition on disclosing sex before the 12th week of pregnancy, unless there is a risk of serious sexually transmitted disease, is maintained. This prevents the child’s gender from becoming a relevant consideration in the assessment of abortion. The Committee's position makes it clear what the Committee believes and what the parties think about the various questions we have been asked to discuss. I look forward to a further debate on the matter, which will have its final outcome when the bill is presented. That's when we change the legal position of these questions. Today we come with our opinions to the government for the further work on the billing proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e663	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e668	Despite the fact that the Court’s national meeting earlier this year said yes to egg donation, the Right will not today support the proposal to ask the Government to come back with legislative proposals that allow egg donation according to the same guidelines as for sperm donation. My question is therefore as follows: Can the representative of Stensland confirm that the Right will support egg donation even if they vote against today, and is there any other thing in the communication where one can expect that the Right will take a different position when the legislative proposal itself comes? For example, can we expect the Right to vote for assisted fertilization to be unanimous when the law comes to treatment? In short, what is the Right for, and what are they against?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e676	I am very pleased with this question, because then we can ask whether the Labour Party believes everything they do not vote for in proposals, where they only have comments. Because that's what's the usual procedure. Of course, right means what I have said from the pulpit, and what has been put into notes. That's actually our view of these questions. What is adopted today does not change anything for women, for the doctors who work with this, or for those who want to have children, because it is when the law is treated in the next instance that the legal position is changed. We have usually promoted our vision in the form of comments. Of course, the right considers what is in the committee position, and what has been conveyed from the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e685	First, I would like to say that the representative said that egg donation should only be allowed with a known donor. I would think he meant unknown, not anonymous, so that one is not uncertain about it. In fact, the right and the centre parties are a little close to each other in this matter, and I appreciate that there is a certain civil propensity in the field of biotechnology, and that one does not go along with the major liberalisation proposals that the Committee has otherwise come together on. I have a question about assisted conception for singleness. I have noticed that the representative in the media – not in the setting – has said that there will be a solid feature, much higher, for assisted conception for the individual than for other health services. Can the representative elaborate on this? Is it on the line of semen donation, or does he see that there's a completely different level of the property?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e694	It's always nice to share civil decency. To the extent that it still exists at the Center Party, we have to enjoy the moment. In the case of excesses, there is, in fact, a significant excess even in assisted fertilisation in the way permitted today. So in light of that, it's natural that there'll be a significant excess even when one allows egg donation, and also for lonely. That makes sense. At least it's not going to be lower. As far as I know, today there are almost 20 000 kroner in excess of assisted fertilisation in Norway. In the case of loneliness, my point is that insofar as a person offers this to women without a diagnosis, the priority criteria must be based. Today, only those who have an underlying diagnosis are treated. So the question comes, when should one give this to lonely women who are not infertile and have no medical diagnosis: is it not logical and in line with the prioritisation message – where the Centre Party and Right did not agree in all – that one of course opens up for a higher self-payment if it is an otherwise healthy person?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e703	Recently, the donor child has stood up and called for a voice and consideration for children in the debate on egg donation and assisted conception into solitary. In an article in the Evening Post, a donor child writes that he feels that the debate is influenced by politicians who seem to legislate the most that can make it easier for people to have their own children. "The children's thing is getting a little alarming," this boy writes. The setting does not include any comments that say that children’s rights should be fulfilled in order to know who their mother and father are. Does the Right agree that this is essential, and even more important when the Supreme Council answers that he does not always know where the donors come from. It is more important to contribute to the majority in order to increase the number of donor measures in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e710	First of all, there is a shortage of sperm donors in Norway. I think most parties agree that we need more sperm donors. I do not agree that we do not agree with any comments regarding the children's need to know. Among other things, we are a strong defender to lower the age limit from 18 to 15, and we are opposed to everything that is about no one knowing the donor. In my post that I have just made, I was quite clear several times that the child's concern should weigh heavily, so I do not know myself quite again in the description. We're not together in every note, but I'm glad that the Christian People's Party and the Right stand together in so many comments. Then we separate a little bit of layers when it comes to egg donation and this right here.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e719	As a result, the string shift has ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e724	I think I should start by thanking the case rapporteur for a good review and summary of the proposals that lie here, and of the great differences in the matter – where there is disagreement. I am very pleased that today we are going to deal with the paper on the evaluation of the Biotechnology Act. That's about. 15 years ago the current Biotechnology Act was adopted. At that time, it was actually assumed that the law would be evaluated after five years. It is therefore almost ten years in overtime that we are now finally going to deal with the matter. Both I and the Progress Party are therefore very pleased that the matter will finally be dealt with in Stortinget, and that it is in fact the Right Party – the Left Government, which will ensure that the Stortinget is now dealt with this important matter. I note that some other parties believe it has taken too long and that it should have come a long time ago. They sat in government a few years after you were supposed to have the matter in Stortinget, but now it is here, and now we get to deal with the matter. Of course, it's important because today's law is over-mature for changes. Technology and opportunities have become completely different from what they were just a few years ago – or most of all, 15 years ago. It's happened a lot. I want to say that it is very interesting to work on this matter because it gives a lot of new knowledge and learning. It has shown that there are many dilemmas and many opinions and breaks that should actually be challenged by such a debate. Essential ethical issues that remain in the debate on biotechnology are issues of individual autonomy, information, consent, the right to know, the right to not know and the status of embryos, foetuses and future generations. The debate also addresses fundamental issues relating to the relationship between parents and children. Therefore, on behalf of the Progress Party, I would like to stress that the regulation of medical use of biotechnology and the use of genetic information must be based on key ethical values in our society. This is also clearly stated in the purpose of the law today, which is also supported by and established by a unanimous committee. The Committee has held two hearings, in which many of the challenges, challenges and opportunities in this important area were well highlighted. Evolution in this area is very fast, but nevertheless we must dare to address the difficult questions. That's why we've supported that we should look at how we can follow the law more often in the future. It can be about the right to know, but also the right to not know. It makes it visible that this is a difficult matter, which can have major consequences for future generations, regardless of whether you go for one or the other. I also know that for many people this matter is about where you stand planted in your own opinions, beliefs and outlook on life. I would therefore like to show that in the Progress Party we have had good and broad discussions, and there are divided opinions on several of these issues. I would therefore like to explain that the Progress Party in this matter has clearly stated in its programme that we are against surrogati and will therefore not open it in Norway. As far as egg donation is concerned, we have opened this up in the party programme and will therefore support this. For us, this is about equality. A majority at the national meeting of the Progress Party at the end of April clearly agreed to support the possibility of being able to assist in fertilisation. But the principle programme of the Progress Party is based on the release of our representatives on this issue. It will therefore be possible for individual representatives to make use of this option and vote against it. Before I briefly outline some of the views of the Progress Party, which the Progress Party supports, I look at the clock, President. I was supposed to have 10 minutes, and now I've only got 5 minutes. I don't have much time left if we're going to follow it, but I hope I can keep going a little further. Before I briefly explain some of the things we are going in for, I would say that both for me and for the Progress Party, John Alvheim was a person who was ready for where he was standing. He was also at the time he was on the Stortinget, an older gentleman. But he was very clear and clear that it was important to be forward-looking, look and take advantage of opportunities in genetic and biotechnology to help sick people and make people healthy. Many here probably remember the 2004 Mehmet case, which created a huge commitment. But for the Progress Party, being forward in such matters is important, and we see many positive opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e747	You're going to get your 5 minutes extra.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e752	Very good, thank you, President! I would like to briefly explain some of the things we are included in the setting. I would also like to remind you that there are several possibilities towards the final processing of the law when it comes to Stortinget in a little while, or perhaps in a little longer time. We hope it comes as soon as possible. In addition to the clarification about surrogati and egg donation, which I mentioned earlier in the article, we are now very clear that in case of assisted fertilisation the donor should be known in the sense that one should be able to find back. And when you're 15, you should be able to get the chance to know your biological origin. The Progress Party supports the need to move forward, including: store eggs longer than what you are doing today. We are more concerned about how long to offer assisted fertilisation, and this is agreed by a majority in the Committee. But after talking to professionals, you're a little uncertain about where that boundary is going. I think it's important that the Minister of Health and the Government maybe take a look at this. Where is the limit of how long to be offered for this? Now you're just saying that you want to look at the possibility of assuming that it's age. And as the representative of Stensland from the Right picked up, there are some dilemmas about how long you can have children. That's why I think it's important to keep looking at it until the law comes, and that maybe you should be clear about setting an age limit. It is also about costs when allowing longer storage. At least the Progress Party believes that a greater part of it should actually be paid by the individual. So to the age limit. We want to make it clear that there should be a 15-year age limit on the basis of which you should be able to know your origin, because it's important. And it's important that there's a non-anonymous donor -- I have to be careful so that it gets right here -- precisely because you have to be able to figure it out if there are diseases, hereditary diseases. It may be important for the child or the person concerned to actually be able to get help, to prevent illness. I want to stop here.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e767	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e772	I have a question about egg donation, for which the Progress Party goes in. In this setting, multiple batches are used for embryo donation, i.e. the donation of a pre-fertilised egg. At that time, parents will have no biological connection with the child being born. I do not see that the Progress Party has joined this in its comments. They also don't have any comments that they're against, so I want to ask what the Progress Party actually means about embryo donation. Are they for, or are they against? And in both cases, how do they justify their position?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e778	We believe that this is a challenging question. Our starting point is that we're positive, but we also want to spend the time until the bill comes, to look even more closely at this. But our starting point is that we're positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e783	To date, the Biotechnology Act has required approval for the use of gene therapy. It'll be even more important, because there'll be more gene therapy in the future. Norway shall be managed from Norway, according to SV. We have to decide for ourselves how we want it in our country, and what we want in our country. However, the Progress Party proposes to lift the Norwegian authorisation requirement and will instead support over-management by the EMA in Europe. Why does the Progress Party think it is wise to deprive the Norwegian people of the right to control what kind of gene therapy we are going to have in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e788	It's probably that SV and the Progress Party have different starting points. We're concerned that you should initially be allowed to do it if it's legal, if it's approved, even internationally. That's not the starting point for the representative Wilkinson to choose, where he's later like this is about being allowed to do more. The starting point for SV is probably rather that you want to limit the possibilities for people. We believe that it should be opening so that you can have the opportunity to use this if you want to. It's actually the way you choose to do this anyway. Many people choose to go abroad and take these tests, and then we think it's right to say that this is international.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e793	The Progress Party, together with the Workers' Party, wants to provide a public offer of early ultrasound, as well as an NIPT test for all pregnant women over 38 years of age. The knowledge centre said in 2012, and the Norwegian gynaecological association in 2013, that there was limited medical benefit and usefulness of early ultrasound. It's about, according to the Norwegian Gynecological Association and the Knowledge Center, to a large extent finding anomalies and chromosome errors. Then we talk to the seventh and last about trisomy 13, 18 and 21. It's trisomy 21 that's Down's syndrome. Does the Progress Party increasingly want a sorting society – when there is no health benefit in early ultrasound?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e798	No, we don't, but we're busy knowing if there are diseases and other things. That's why we're positive with what's in the comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e803	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e808	So today we are going to deal with the biotechnology notification, an evaluation of the biotechnology law. The government has been producing this message for nearly one year. The government provided a message where they did not take a position at several important and central points, as the government did not have any meaning. Councillor Bent Höie let the responsibility go. He has since left the government partners the Progress Party and the Left have got multiple numbers across the Stortinget, often opposite what the Right itself has stood for. This is rarely a diet, and it's unusual. This now leads to strong liberalisation of the field of biotechnology. The field becomes more individual law. It's more about the grown-ups' right to have children and less about children's rights to parents. The objective paragraph will not be changed, and that is a good thing: Medical use of biotechnology should be exploited for the benefit of people in a society where there is room for everyone, without discrimination on the basis of heritage based on ethical standards laid down in our Western cultural heritage. However, even if the purpose paragraph exists, its content is significantly altered. The intention behind the destination will be weighted. That a plurality of the Storting will open for egg donation, has been known, at least after right's national meeting. The center party thinks this is unfortunate. It violates an important principle that the child’s birther is the child’s biological mother. A new principle is opened where eggs are moved from woman to woman. We don't think it can be compared to sperm donation. This isn't about equality, which many people want to minimize. But what's even more eye-catching is that a multiple on the Stortinget seems to be misleading to allow double donation, i.e. to donate both eggs and semen at the same time – donation of ready fertilized eggs, embryo donation. Parents will have no biological connection to the child. What, then, is the big difference between surrogati and surrogati? The majority ignore biological association, which is the framework for assisted fertilisation. It is deliberately designed to give birth to children without biological ties to parents in Norway. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child Article 7 states that children have the right to know and care about their parents as far as possible. The plural does not mean anything when it comes to the problem. The Center Party makes suggestions along with the Christian People's Party not to open up to egg donation or donation of fertilized eggs in Norway. Surrogati is still a chess supported by most parties, except Left. The center party thinks today's ban is not real in Norway. We think it needs to be clarified how the introduction of criminal response for individuals who enter into an agreement on commercial surrogati can be designed not to punish the children. A multiple will allow assisted fertilization to occur alone. The centre party disagrees. We think that this still has to be a couple's offer. Admitting this will challenge the priorities of our healthcare system. Right says they will solve it by introducing a significant property, but everything can't be solved by high properties. And is it so important that there will be a public offer for single women to have children? Without having partners and without having toil with disease and infertility, it is difficult to understand that this should then be an offer for those with resources. The majority write in a note that there is ‘property’ to determine whether an assisted fertilisation is available if one is single, but it should be a bit of a judgment job the state takes on when the health care system defines and determines which of the single women who have well enough networks and resources to provide assisted fertilisation. The important thing here is that a break with the principle that assisted fertilisation should be an offer within certain frameworks for those who are struggling to have children, i.e. that it is a medical issue. Being single is no disease. Children have the right to two parents. The State should make no provision for anything else. The Government proposes that all persons who are to be offered assisted fertilisation should be evaluated both medically and from the point of view of the couple. Clearer and common guidelines for this evaluation of care shall be introduced. The centre party supports this. However, we do not support the introduction of child-care certification requirements for assisted fertilisation. According to the government, this is a police certificate indicating whether the person is sighted, accused, has taken counsel or has been convicted of crimes against several criminal orders, such as the police. sexual law offences, murders, drug law offences and gross violence and crime. A child care certificate is so extensive and not a certificate that should only be able to detect sexual offences. We thought that the border rise would be difficult: where does the border go? What types of previous crimes and convictions are not consistent with being a parent? Is that right? Is it drug law? The centre party suggests that no such requirement for a child care certificate is introduced. So to the proposal to let healthy women get the right to store egg cells completely regardless of whether there is any medical reason for it: Fresh women will be offered from the state to freeze eggs, such as in the case, so that one can have young and healthy eggs in reserve – fun to have when a later in life is considering having children! First, this is at most a driver to make children an order item. Secondly, there are many other things the welfare state should spend its resources on than providing healthy women with this. Talking about a big asset, as the Labour Party does, doesn't help. If it is so important for the Labour Party, the Progress Party and the Left to make this a public offer, then it is a paradox that only those who can afford it should be involved. However, it is obvious that a multiple will open for mitochondrial donation. That means that the child will receive genetic heritage from three parents. That it's a little genetic material, I thought it was quite obvious that a person argues with. A gene is a gene. And it's a professional discussion whether the method is medically safe. A layer of genetic changes in germ cells either before or after conception. I didn't think Norway would allow this. But no, the Labour Party, the Progress Party and the Left in the driver's seat ask the government to look to the United Kingdom to learn more and to introduce this in Norway when this is safe. But where did the principle come from? Is there no limit anymore, no frame around it to create a healthy fetus? When it comes to preimplantation diagnostics, the Centre Party is concerned not to liberalise, but we still support the proposal that PDG can be granted even if the applicant has not demonstrated carrier status, if one parent has 50 pst. probability of serious hereditary disease that cannot be treated. For us, this is about the right not to know if one will get sick in the future, and about respect for the parents who do not want to test. The center party is ready that we will not allow research on fertilized eggs. We want to keep up with today's requirements for foetal diagnostics. We'll go against providing the NIPT blood test for all pregnant women. We want the early ultrasound offer to be regulated as today and not become a routine offer to healthy women. We know that only has a medical purpose to diagnose if the fetus has trisomi and Down's syndrome. It does not lead to better health for mother and child, and it must be a central premise. So to genetic self-tests: the Biotechnology Council's plurality suggests that genetic self-tests with diagnostic or therapeutic purposes should only be allowed in the health care system. We also mean that, so we're doing this again in a proposal. Otherwise, we'll support the reduction in the age limit for getting a white donor's identity, from 18 to 15. We do not support a generic extended egg storage time, but we open it so that it can be applied for in some cases. With this, I will present the proposal of the Centre Party in the setting. Then I would also like to inform you that we are going to support proposal No. 20, the Labour Party's proposal which is pending in the Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e852	The representative Kjersti Toppe has drawn up the proposal to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e859	Torbjørn Eggebø, head of the National Treatment Service for Advanced Invasive Foetal Medicine, says in the Medisin Day that all women should be offered early ultrasound. He goes on to say that the 38-year limit was set in 1983, based on how many foetal water tests the health care system had the capacity to perform. Gynecologist Peter Molnar of the Majorstua Clinic states the following: «In the 15 years I have worked with ultrasound in Norway, I have noticed an explosive increase. Very many pregnant people use early ultrasound, at least in the cities where the offer is large.» Is the representative Toppe concerned that women in districts do not receive an equivalent health offer as women in cities?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e869	No, I'm not at all concerned about that, because the health supply in the cities that the representative is talking about is not a real health supply. It is not an offer that will ensure better health for mother and child. In my first period at Stortinget, this was a big deal. Then there was a Minister from the Labour Party who organized a large consensus conference, because there were so many trade unions that meant different things. Some trade unions were overestimated about one thing, others said the opposite. They organised a large consensus conference, and the report agreed that it was not advisable to introduce this as a routine offer for healthy pregnant women, because it had no health benefits for mother and children. That's what I'm still supporting, and I'm really sure that's still the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e874	As the representative Toppe was inside his post, the Centre Party is the only party that does not want a Child Care Certificate. But in the rationale, the representative elegantly overlooks the fact that we are now talking about pregnancy where the state and the public are an organizer, unlike most people, who do it by the nature method. She also does not reflect that an adoption imposes similar requirements. I have followed this debate carefully, for there have been good arguments in both directions. But I particularly noticed in the head of the Biotechnology Council, who thought it was a good idea that we now made as strict demands as becoming a mother and a father as an already committed to becoming a football coach. Does the representative Toppe think it is special that one argues so strongly against such a certificate, as one actually must have in many other parts of society?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e882	I admit this is a not entirely simple debate. It's an assessment -- that's argument for, and that's argument against. We've made it clear that it's not as easy as comparing a police certificate for a football coach. This is a treatment provision for couples who have a disease, and it will not be fully comparable. We could have been on a child care certificate, but I thought what was proposed by the government is so extensive. If one in his previous life has had a conviction for drug crime, should one not then be entitled to assisted conception? I thought there would be a hard border there, and that's the main reason why we're voting against what is now being proposed by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e889	I thank you for the introduction to the representative Toppe, who places his party where I expected to find it – on a conservative basis, albeit something old-fashioned. Then I want to correct an obvious misunderstanding. It's not like the left goes in for mitochondria donation -- we don't. But my question is related to assisted fertilization for lonely. Does the Central Party not see the dilemma that those who are interested in it today just need to sit on the Danish ferry to get an anonymous donor to their child?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e898	Thank you for calling me an old-fashioned conservative. I'm often owed to be both radical and socialist, so that's what it is. To this end, one can go on a Danish journey: It is a good comment at the beginning of the committee setting, where one says that one can get an offer in another country, not be decisive for how to make it to our law. Then it almost didn't make sense to have a biotechnology message and a private law. We have to mean what Norway thinks is good for our health care and our inhabitants. So it will always be so that one can travel abroad and get a different offer, and especially in this field. I think we have to look away from it and determine what we think is the right thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e905	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e910	We make laws and regulations to secure people's lives and create a good society for everyone. Today we are on the wrong road. Health inequalities are increasing. There are now eight years' difference in life expectancy between the best and worst urban areas in Oslo. The differences in power and wealth are increasing under this government, and it affects our health. Where differences go down in the rest of Europe, they increase in Norway just because we have a blue government that has chosen a policy that affects the many but helps the few. That is why it is important to discuss the biotechnology notification, that SV wants to have a principle on its back, and that is the opposite, that it should be a policy for the many, not for the few. New technology offers great opportunities, but often it's very expensive. This means that if it is left to a private market, only a small elite will have access to important treatment. Then there is a responsibility for us here at Stortinget to consider what everyone should have access to, and how we should regulate it, that we stop things that could harm society. One of the things that can be very daunting about biotechnology is that we can't just get growing class differences today, which we have under this government, but we can sement the differences in our biology itself. If we have private gene therapy against something that's hereditary, the richest can pay to genetically modify their offspring to be superior to everyone else. That's why SV is very happy that we have with all the other parties to say no to being allowed to do re-doping, i.e. private use of money to improve the genes of their offspring, and that it should not be allowed to create heritable changes – which will result in an upper class that is not only rich and gets more tax cuts from the government today, but which increases the differences, generation after generation. In order to bring down the differences, it's also important that we provide medical help to all those who can't afford to pay off their own pockets and travel around the world to get help. It is a public responsibility to ensure equal access to medicine. That's why SV is happy that we're now going to be clearer about opening up important gene therapy where it can save lives, that we're not ethically opposed to mitochondrial donation, but that we have to wait until it's medically possible to do so. But we don't think the code should shut down anything that can save many lives. Perhaps this will not be done in Norway at all, but that we will cooperate with the United Kingdom – which has already started – when they get better. But we believe that our legislation must be used to ensure equal access to medical treatment for people who need it, regardless of the size of the wallet. Therefore, we will also have research on fertilised eggs, which can provide knowledge that can save lives, but then with strong and strict limitations. Then SV is also a feminist party. The female body can give life, and there's always someone who wants to exploit and override. Therefore, SV will maintain the ban on surrogati in Norway. We are on the proposal to stop the exploitation of women in the international surrogatiindusty, and we are proposing measures to stop the use of commercial surrogati abroad. We are for PGD and testing like the NIPT test – because it is cheaper and better and stops forced late away, which is much worse – if women first want it. We want women themselves to have the right to determine their own bodies. That's why we want to give knowledge, and we think it's wrong to reject the woman's knowledge, but we support more help. We think that's the right way to ensure diversity and opportunities in society, like that. the fight SV ran for the care allowance, which makes it possible to have sick children. Because we are in favour of diversity in society – but through help, not by depriving knowledge. We're in favour of egg donation with excess eggs, and sperm donation and assisted fertilization to lonely, because we think it's good with more love and more children, if the parents have care. Finally, I will take up a serious matter. It is that the government parties and the Workers' Party will now remove the requirement for gene therapy approval under the Biotechnology Act. This is very serious, because until now there has been an agreement that gene therapy and how we should do it in Norway should be managed from Norway. Instead, they will move this to EMA in Europe, while in SV we believe that Norwegians should be governed by the Norwegian people and from the Norwegian big business. Then I would like to comment on the proposal No. 17 and 18 from SV, and indicates that SV will support the Workers' Party's loose proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e931	The representative Nicholas Wilkinson then addressed the proposals to which he referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e938	Taking a choice to donate an egg or semen is a deep personal choice. When SV wants to limit egg donation to excess eggs from couples who themselves have had problems with fertility, I wonder what the representative from SV thinks about the pressure you can feel to donate their excess eggs just because you were incidentally infertile yourself. Isn't this a big burden to put on a small group?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e943	This was a very strange argument, I think, as the Workers' Party also wants to open up for people to donate excess eggs. So the same question I can put back to the Workers' Party. There is a shortage of eggs in all countries that have open egg donation. We're facing the same challenge. Yes, it's difficult, but it's like today that we don't have enough knowledge, we mean -- and many people in the hearing answers too -- to know exactly how egg donation and the heavy hormone cure you're going through affect the human body. SV is very open to look at this further when more knowledge comes, but we think it's wise when we're going to make big changes, to start with one step at a time. That's why we want to lift the ban on egg donation and say that we want to start our experiment with those who take out eggs already, and let them donate excess eggs. I think it's rather scary that the Workers' Party chooses to break all the barriers at the same time, but we don't know enough about how this affects the female body over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e948	I note that the representative Wilkinson chooses to spend his due time discussing health inequalities when we want to talk about biotechnology. When first mentioned, smoking is the main factor in health inequalities in Norway. There is smoking that causes people to get many diseases, and there is much more smoking among those who are socio-economically disadvantaged in Norway. Why, then, did SV vote against several of the restrictions in the Tobacco Damage Act that will just have an impact on the factor that is most important to health inequalities, when we last dealt with the Tobacco Damage Act? Was it a socially good position to take; that SV actively counters the most important measures we have had to reduce smoking — and thus less inequality in health?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e953	Now it is actually so that SV has just made a suggestion in Stortinget to tighten up the whole smoking law, among other things. together with the Christian People's Party. We have put forward proposals for tightening up right now, which are under consideration in the Committee. And then I understand that the Right gets really stressed when we talk about inequality in health. It may not be so strange, because under this government, the differences in power and wealth increase dramatically. A major issue today in Health-Norway in all media shows that the differences between life and death in Norway increase sharply during the Right-Registration. In fact, the biotechnology notification that we are dealing with now affects the differences in health. The fact that we in SV say that we do not want heredity and re-doping affects the differences in health in Norway. That's why it's important when we're talking about something that's so ethically important, that we're also clear about what our ethics and morals are when we're dealing with ethical issues. For SV, it's this. We want a policy for the many, not for the few, where everyone has equal opportunities, also based on the Biotechnology Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e960	The leader of the Biotechnology Study was very clear in hearing the proposal for the storage of eggs without a medical basis. I am somewhat surprised that the SV in the setting has not been able to conclude in this problem. One refers to both the advantages and disadvantages and believes that this has not been thoroughly assessed, and one asks the government to assess these advantages and disadvantages by opening up for the storage of unfertilized eggs when there are no medical reasons for it. Doesn't SV think this is going beyond the limits of what a welfare state should spend money on, when it's not connected to disease?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e966	This is not true. SV has concluded, and we have concluded that there is not enough knowledge. I don't think that's a hoax. I think that is a rather serious matter. We are dealing with a biotechnology law that will last many years in the future. When we then receive a proposal for the storage of unfertilised eggs where it has not been concluded well enough, where there is no knowledge, it is not just that I have removed it. I'm quite proud that SV is the party that stands up and says, here we need more knowledge to make good decisions. I agree with the representative Kjersti Toppe that there are limits to what the welfare state should do. It's important. But for SV, there's one very clear goal. It's that we're going to use the biotechnology message to create a society for the many and not for the few. If we get knowledge that storing unfertilized eggs without a medical reason can help the population, can give people a better life, we can consider opening it up, but we won't consider opening it up today. We're voting against it, but we want more knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e973	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e978	First, I would like to thank the committee chairman and the case rapporteur for an unusually good and balanced presentation. I know this takes her personally, and therefore there is even greater reason to give her thanks for the article. Laws are often said to be stronger ethics. In this way, the Storting is today invited to draw a snapshot of an ethical development that goes faster than many of us like. Biotechnology offers great opportunities to cure and relieve, but it also asks us eternal questions about what it is to be human, and how far we can intervene in the ecology of the body and the soul, to use such a concept. Yesterday we discussed an adjustment of the inflation target from 2.5 to 2 p.m., but as I followed the debate, I realized that we would like to see a downward adjustment of the inflation target of biotechnology, so that we could take on more of the rapid changes that are taking place. It is a symptom of this rapid development that we have had to postpone this spring's deadline for the submission of the Committee's position in order to allow a few party meetings to address important ethical issues – before they soon become larger in legal texts. Now that we're going to review the law, some say it's high time. It has not been revised for 15 years. There are many controversial and difficult questions here, so it explains that neither the red-green nor the current government has been able to provide an evaluation for the Storting before now. Those who follow this debate, and there are probably many, will discover that the dividing lines go somewhat across the traditional right-left axis of Norwegian policy. I think this is a health sign. Then I will ask the medical professionals – and the average interested audience – to carry with us non-medicines in the Health Committee, which, while the legal text is being drafted, could get us far into all the irresponsibleness of heavy, sad human creatures, where the legal texts may seem to set far too strict limits. There is clearly a need for strict regulation and a controlled development, properly enough. I think, for example, there is no one in this room who wants to open up to modify traits that could be inherited, or that gene therapy could be used to improve human properties, for example by re-doping. Nevertheless, most people believe that gene therapy and re-editing that can provide better medical treatment and cure serious illness are of the good. Fortunately, many of us agree that we are going to use the technology to combat disease, whether it's gene therapy on the foetus, or later by modifying somatic cells. The left says yes to gene therapy on the foetus, and we say yes to gene therapy research on fertilized eggs. Exploratory treatment is uncertain, and some research is ethically challenging, but without it we would not have moved on to treating or eliminating serious illness. In the case of mitochondria donation, the Left did not want to open for this now. We believe there is a need for a broader debate on this in Norway, as they had in the United Kingdom before they allowed it there. The rapid progress in this area underlines the need for a continuous and dynamic evaluation of the law, as we are proposing here today. Before I go on, I would like to stress that the Left is uncompromising about putting children's best ahead of everything else. The best thing that can happen to a child is to be brought into a family that longs for the child, who goes through fire and water to do its best. The greatest change in the moral reflection on biotechnological themes has probably been the upgrade of the child's social environment in recent years, while the importance of genetic origin has been reduced. The world is full of examples of betrayals against children who have two biological parents, parents who fail the task and expose their offspring to indescribable abuse. Children have no guarantee of a good upbringing, even if everything has happened according to the nature method – with one man and one woman present. As a result of the ethical and technological developments in the years to come, we are going to see an abundance of family constellations, relationships that we today find unfamiliar and strange, but which are going to hear the normal state in a few years' time. The advantage of having lived for a while is that I know how short a time since it is that a child with one caregiver was stigmatised and looked down on. We are currently in a situation where more and more people see it as completely natural that even families with two parents of the same sex have children. All children, regardless of the family constellation, must be guaranteed a good childhood.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1001	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1006	I know the Left as a party occupied by the rights of the children and have long traditions for it, and I think it's very nice that the Left goes in to ratify the third supplementary protocol in the United Nations, etc. However, in biotechnology issues, it seemed that there is no concern about allowing a supply where children — for example, children. Through egg donation and sperm donation in combination, i.e. embryo donation, there will be no biological ties with their parents, with whom they will be trained, and one in annotations debats the argument about the biological relationships. Is it true that the Left is not concerned about this in the biotechnology field, about the rights of the children?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1011	Of course, the Left is busy with it. As I said in my post, what I think is the greatest difference from the past to the last few years is that we upgrade the social environment around the child – perhaps at the expense of the biological – and that much of what happens to children of evil in the world today is completely unrelated to biological origin.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1016	The left is on a proposal for a decision asking ‘the government to return to the Storting in an appropriate way to limit the use of donor semen to the number of families per donor, not the number of children per donor’. How many children does the Left really think each donor should be able to have? One thing is the challenge is that there are a lot of kids who get half-sisters, but doesn't the left also see the challenge that the donor should be familiar with, that he might have to relate to the x number of children at some point? My question is, how many children should each donor have?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1021	I had expected this question from the representative of Bollestad, we have been involved in this earlier. Now it's like the left-hand side looks at the family constellation as especially important here. We experience that children's right to have biological siblings within one family constellation is important, and that therefore we do not set limits, beyond what we have already talked about in terms of the number of children. I experience the problem of the representative who is actually a little up-to-date and a little bit theoretical.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1028	But in Sweden they have – and they are about. 10 million inhabitants – set limits to this because it is actually a challenge for the kids that there will be a lot of kids to relate to one donor. Doesn't the Left see that issue – on behalf of the kids?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1033	Of course we see that problem, but I think we should cross that bridge when we get there.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1038	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1044	Today, the Stortinge can finally debate and decide how the biotechnology field should be regulated in the future. I want to thank the committee for doing a good job with the setting. However, this debate has been delayed for ten years. The red-green government was supposed to have evaluated the law in 2008, but was unable to do so during its eight years in government. The Solberg government delivered today's big-time message, which is being debated, in its first period. Some have criticised that the notification does not conclude in all questions and that it is left to Stortinget to conclude. I do not agree with that criticism. The communication raises all issues with arguments for and against, and it provides a good basis for debate in the United Kingdom. Some of the themes are quite correct that the government has not concluded. It's simply because we're completely open that the two parties that then put in government had different views on many of these areas. I believe that big business politicians are able both to debate and to conclude for themselves, although many of these issues are ethically difficult. Biotechnology offers many opportunities for human benefit, but it is the Stortinget that should determine where the ethical boundaries are to go for the opportunities offered by technology. I agree with the majority of the Committee that this limit should be assessed in our view on ethics and values in Norway, regardless of what may be permitted in other countries. I am particularly pleased that the Committee insists that the aim of the law is to continue to be to make use of biotechnology for the benefit of people in a society where there is room for everyone. It is also good to see that most of the government's proposals have received broad support in the committee. This will include, inter alia: strengthen the legal status of children by reducing the age limit for the right to know who is the donor from 18 to 15 years of age, by giving parents the obligation to inform their children that they have been made by donation, and by improving the rules for assessing the suitability of couples seeking assisted fertilisation, inter alia. by introducing an obligation to provide a child care certificate. It is also good, and in a high time, that women with medical conditions that may lead to infertility at an early age are entitled to retain unfertilised eggs. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee supports the government's proposal to allow genetic testing of fertilised eggs in some cases, even if the applicant does not wish to be shown carrier status for, among others. Huntington's disease, which is a serious hereditary disease. The few couples involved should be able to get help to have children while not knowing whether they are likely to develop a serious heritable disease for which there is no treatment option. It is good that the majority of the Committee supports the proposal to harmonise and simplify today's rules on gene therapy. The rules will be easier to practice while maintaining strict regulation of the field. I am also pleased that the majority of the Committee supports the proposal to provide clear rules on when the Biotechnology Act applies to research involving predictive genetic research, i.e. tests to show whether you have a particular genetic defect that will increase the risk of disease during your life. Assisted fertilisation for solitude and egg donation are two questions that have been much discussed. A majority of the Committee supports this. However, I am surprised that a majority in the committee consider allowing embryo donation, i.e. the donation of fertilised eggs. Embryo donation is not recommended by a majority of the Biotechnology Council. I believe that embryo donation only takes into account the needs of adults. The child will have no genetic connection with any of the parents. I think it can be called into question whether this violates the purpose of the law to exploit biotechnology with respect for human rights and personal integrity. It is not relevant to argue that adopted children do not grow up with their genetic parents. The purpose of adoption is quite different and meets the needs of a born child for parents. I would also like to stress the importance of early ultrasound not being introduced as an offer to all pregnant women. Early ultrasound for all healthy pregnant women is not recommended by the Institute of Public Health. There is no evidence that this will bring health benefits to both mother and child. In addition, routine early ultrasound is not closely related to the purpose of the law that biotechnology should be exploited for the benefit of people in a society where there is ‘space for all’. As is well known, an offer of early ultrasound for all healthy women will lead to fewer children being born with e.g. Down syndrome. I have also noticed that the majority of the Committee proposes that restrictions on the use of donor semen be linked to the number of families per donor and not to the number of children per donor. I believe that this proposal will work against its purpose. The proposal gives some families the opportunity to get a larger sibling with the same donor. I do not necessarily agree that this should be given priority over sperm donation to as many childless couples as possible. The proposal may also lead to fewer children being born through sperm donation, because the total number of children being born will depend on how many children each family can have. In my opinion, therefore, the government's proposal in the communication to increase the number of children per donor from eight to twelve, divided into up to six families, is more appropriate. The proposal will meet both the family's needs for siblings from the same donor and provide an offer to as many children as possible. It can also be assessed whether the restriction of 12 children per donor can be waived when it is important for the individual family. This can help more children in one family to be biological siblings. However, it is important that this is further investigated in order to ensure that there is no risk that the half-sibling will have children without being familiar with its genetic kinship. I have followed and will, of course, follow this debate carefully, and I will follow up the decision of the Stortinge after today's discussion. In some areas, there will be a need for professional investigations. There may also be prima facie clarifications that remain after Storting's treatment. We will prepare a legislative amendment as soon as possible, which, of course, will have to be consulted in general before it is promoted by the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1069	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1074	The Minister of Health chose to criticise the previous government for using himself the entire previous period to provide an evaluation of the Biotechnology Act, without also addressing important issues – but leave it at that. One of the changes that now follow as a consequence of the setting is that egg donation is going to be legal. I have been in discussions with the Council of State on that issue and know that he is not one of those who think it should be legal. My question to the Council of State is: How will he in the further legislative work follow up the lifting of the ban, and what frame does he think is the right one in our common health service when this is going to be an opportunity for childless couples?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1081	The debate on egg donation I have taken both in the public room and in my own party, and I have lost both places. I respect that. Of course, I want to look very carefully at what is in the setting, and the leads in the comments there. There may also be some issues that have not been clarified in the vote and that we need to investigate and get our views on through the consultation process. But when we're going to work on this matter, we're going to base our work on this in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1086	I also hear that the Council of State is very sceptical that a majority is now in favour of Norwegian professionals following developments in the United Kingdom, where the correct experimental treatment of mitochondria becomes a reality. What will the Council of State think about exactly that when he gets the responsibility to implement it in our common health care? How will he ensure that Norwegian professionals follow medical developments in the United Kingdom when, hopefully, during 2018, we wake up to the news that a healthy child has been born as a result of this method in the United Kingdom?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1093	This is an entirely new method, and the Biotechnology Council has, in the light of a leading commodity, said that it should not be used. Here one could arise in situations where the changes one makes in the genetic material could also be passed on to future generations. That means that one here is facing a whole new situation. Of course, we have to ask the professional questions about this. Then I am absolutely sure that the Norwegian trade unions, regardless of what you adopt politically, will follow up on what is happening in this field internationally. New knowledge can give rise to new assessments. But when it comes to questions about changing man's legacy for generations to come, I think it's important that a layman lead the sense of whereabouts.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1098	The United Kingdom’s health authorities have assessed this approach and concluded that it is not a genetic method, because the genes being donated away are so few that it does not affect germ cell genetic properties. Does the Council of State consider that health authorities in the United Kingdom have made an incorrect assessment of this method?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1103	I believe it is on the basis of this whole big message and the Norwegian Biotechnology Act, which is an idea that Norway should make its own assessments of these kinds of questions. I believe that we should do the same in this case. We know that this is a question where it is necessarily not possible to put two lines under one answer. Then we have to make our own decisions before we draw a conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1108	I thought it was nice to listen to the post and what the council said about embryo donation, early ultrasound and the proposal to limit the number of families per donor. I hope that there will be a good end to some of the questions that the Committee has not been very clear in the configuration. I have a question about assisted fertilization to solitary, for which the Storting has gone in, right too. There is a shortage of sperm donors in Norway today, also for couples. If now it is also allowed for single people to be assisted by conception, how should one be given priority? Does the council see that single women should be given priority over couples, or vice versa, when there is a shortage of sperm?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1115	In this area, I feel that it will be that solitude will be assessed on the same line with others based on the criteria being made. If you have the right to donation, a get the offer. Then someone like today will be put in a line. It is then the waiting time that will be decisive. I don't think there will be a ranking of the two groups. There are arguments for and against this. I even voted against our own national meeting, but also lost that case. However, in view of the child’s right to know its biological origin, it will obviously be beneficial for the child to offer this in Norway, because then a few will receive this offer with a well-known donor. One will not have to do what many lonely people do today — travel abroad and get a donation from an unknown donor, which also deprives the child of the opportunity to know its biological origin. So from a child's perspective, this will be an improvement.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1122	First, I would like to thank the Council of State for its communication. He was sorry that someone had criticised that we had not adjusted everything. I won't. I think it's very nice, because I think there's a lot better parties on the Storing than it is in the government, so we like to take that job. When it comes to surrogati abroad, we in SV are very concerned about the exploitation of the female body in the international surrogati industry. The Progress Party, the Center Party, SV and the Christian People's Party have joined forces on a proposal to ask the government to stop the exploitation of women. The Party of Workers, the Right and the Left choose not to support that proposal. I would like to ask the Council of State an open and neutral question about this – because we are concerned – about what the Council of State thinks he can do to stop the female body and women being abused in the international surrogacy industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1132	I do not think there is any doubt – and my impression is – that all parties in Norway are concerned with this issue, that this is an area that has major challenges, and that one should not facilitate the use of surrogati. What becomes a very rapid discussion is whether it should be made criminal in Norway to use surrogati abroad. There is the government in the message and also the Right very clear that we do not think that is right. Starting a parent, starting a life with parents being punished for what caused one to be born, we don't think it's right. All children are welcome, regardless of how they have come to life. We are committed to giving children the best possible start to life, and it is not by punishing their parents for the method they have used to have children.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1137	I heard State Council Höie say what he doesn't want to do, but I asked what he can do. SV agrees that we should not go directly in for punishment for surrogati abroad. There was recently a case in the VG that a surrogate mother – someone was going to buy children from her body – died in India. It's a very serious situation. Rich people travel to poor countries and – I would say that at least some people – they take advantage of women. After all, SV proposes to ask the government to promote measures to limit the use of commercial surrogati abroad. We probably don't get the majority for that. We also promote proposals together with the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the Christian People's Party to stop the exploitation of women in the international surrogati industry. Neither do we get a majority because the Left and the Right are against both proposals. I ask again, for this is a very serious situation, in which people lose their lives: what will the Council of State do to stop the use of commercial surrogati abroad?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1154	As I said, there is a cross-political consensus on that, and Norway's position internationally is well known. I also believe that the representative sees that there are limitations in our ability to enter and govern the regulations of other countries. At that time, a quick discussion of the types of reactions to be taken in Norway against those who use this offer will lead to a rapid conclusion. I answered that in the previous question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1159	During the proceedings, the Christian People's Party has asked a number of questions to the Council of State. One of them is the fulfilment of donor children's rights to know their origin. The Council of State has replied that the child’s right to know its origin is not so important that a need for own control procedures – we just trust that all, both foreign and Norwegian, private actors comply with the rules, even if we do not have control. Is the Council of State comfortable not having an overview of how many and which countries donor semen comes from? How can the children then have the right to know and know their origin?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1164	As I have said, we assume that those who are actors in Norway relate to Norwegian law, that's what we're thinking about. Having specific control systems for this is not considered appropriate. I am also not aware that there have been problems related to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1169	It belongs to the units of rare people that I take a line at the Council of State, but I want to challenge him, since in this matter we are relatively free as parties to have opinions and opinions often go across government boundaries. The Council of State noted that he does not see embryo donation in relation to adoption, that embryo donation has to be assessed in many ways other than, for example, adoption. I could imagine the Council of State deepening it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1176	The background is that it is argued that none of the parents have a biological relationship with the child, is not a problem, and then one refers to adoption. Then I think you compare two completely different situations. Adoption is carried out because a child is born to have grown-ups and secure frames around him. Assisted conception is something society now offers couples, in the future also lonely, who want children who are not yet born. If one then looks at what is the purpose of the law, I think there's reason to ask questions about whether it's right to do so in a situation where none of the parents want a biological relationship with the child.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1181	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1186	First of all, I have to say that it is with humility and gratitude that I have managed to deal with this message. As a politician, I've reflected on the fact that we often deal with issues that concern a lot of people, but still don't have the ability to engage in the big heights. With biotechnology, it's different. Problems that really concern only a few of us directly have a high level of involvement in the population. Rarely are matters as important to them as to biotechnology. A few weeks ago, I met Tina and Linn. Last year they became mothers of little Imre, and they want to give him a whole sister the next time they're going to have a baby. They have fertilized eggs frozen at the LIVIO clinic here in Oslo, but today's rules stand in the way of Tina and Linn. They have been told that their eggs must be destroyed because the sperm donor has reached the roof of other families. We in the Workers ’ Party believe that families must decide for themselves how many children they will have and that they should not be met that other families were first at the mill. So we're glad that today we get a majority that there are the number of families that have to be constrained per donor, and not the number of children. When you can use the eggs you already have, it also means releasing a new round of hormone treatment and extracting eggs. It then becomes less intrusive for the woman. As far as possible intervention is a heading that fits well with the Workers' Party's approach to biotechnology. We want to use methods that are less invasive for both mother and child when it comes to conception, ultrasound and foetal diagnostics, etc. The working party believes it is unfortunate that assisted fertilisation by insemination now counts as an IVF test. Insemination is more gentle for the woman, but more people now choose to go straight to IVF because you have a better chance of succeeding. We have to keep on line that there are three IVF trials that count as the three public trials, and that insemination has to be kept out of this, or at least counted in a different way. We are proposing this today and hoping for cross-political support. The working party wants to provide all the early ultrasound, not only those who can pay for it, or those who live urbanly and have private offers easily accessible. The working party wants to give women access to the more precise and less risky NIPT test, rather than the KUB test that has been used over several years. It's about risk to the child and less stress to the mother. The working party wants to provide families with serious hereditary diseases with so-called pre-implantation diagnostics. We believe that this should be equated with foetal diagnostics. We believe it is far better for these women to have the opportunity to put in a fresh egg from day one, than to tell them that they have to try pregnancy after pregnancy, and then to have abortion offers after proven illness in the child after week 12. We believe it is less intrusive and more worthy to ensure families with serious hereditary disease in their families this possibility already from conception, rather than exposing their mother and the rest of the family to the mental and physical stress of a latent. It is important to stress that this is about women who can carry on seriously ill children who can risk a short and painful life if they survive their mother's stomach. Finally, I would like to say the following: In the Workers' Party, we keep our tab high and say that everyone is going. It's worth stressing in such a context as well. The opportunities offered by biotechnology and the majority now created are about giving the woman the right to know and then the right to make the choices separately. But it's just as much about the right not to know, or about the right to bring forward a child who will need the support of the big society throughout his life. I started my post by saying that it is with humility that we are dealing with many major questions in the hall today. I think it's okay to end with the same recognition. Finally, I would like to make it clear that there will be a change in the proposal that we have made today. The new wording will then read as follows: ‘The majority believe that insemination should not be counted as the use of the three official assisted fertilisation trials.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1219	Then the representative Tuva Moflag has drawn up the proposal she referred to. The President will take note of the submission of the proposal after the deadline specified in the first paragraph of Section 40 of the Storting Rules of Procedure. The President will therefore come back to whether the proposal should be put to the vote at this meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1227	Biotechnology itself is not new; for thousands of years, humans have benefited from micro-organisms and developed knowledge and use. Baking bread, brewing beer and cheese is today old knowledge, but it's actually also biotechnology. Biotechnology has influenced and will still be able to change our everyday lives. It offers us many possibilities, such as knowledge of why we become ill, more accurate medicines, better treatment options and more possibilities for diagnosis. We should continue to play with micro-organisms and facilitate medical and technological progress. At the same time, we have a superior responsibility to carry out the fundamental values and ethical considerations – this is where bio- and genetic technologies become difficult for real. Knowledge development has been an important part of the innovation in modern medicine. Today, we have new and basic knowledge of how healthy and sick cells and organisms work. So we have e.g. have been identified as changing the genetic structure of many hereditary diseases and cancers. Another example is vaccines; human hepatitis B vaccines are now produced based on the formation of one of the surface proteins of the infectious organism. As I said, biotechnology offers many new possibilities and tools to cure many diseases or states, and it is continuously developing. Today, use is mainly slowed down by resource access or ethical problem settings. The field of biotechnology is broad and has undergone significant medical and technological developments since the existing legislation was adopted. Nevertheless, the potential of biotechnology for us in assisted fertilisation, which may have gained the most attention in the treatment of this biggest message. It might give a little bit of an idea of how extensive genetic and biotechnology really is. Assisted fertilisation is clearly an important part of what assessments we need to take into account the legislative development of biotechnology. That children who come to the world as a result of assisted conception are both highly wanted and loved, there is no doubt about it. At the same time, this does not mean that all new methods should be embraced without good, balanced assessments. I have doubted that a yes to egg donation, which today is also the Right's position on the question, and which we signal through our remarks in the matter. Egg donation is a good answer for some with fertility problems and helps to equalize men and women more than what we see today. I look forward to the government being able to draw up a legislative proposal to facilitate the desired development of holistic biotechnology – which can be for the best for humans, with room for all.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1242	Today's debate shows that we are really in a politically flammable area. This Act, which dates back to 1994, and was revised in 2003, was to be submitted with a new revision in 2013 following a long and thorough process. But because of internal disagreement, it was not promoted by the previous government, as mentioned by the Minister of Health. Today’s debate shows that there are many and different opinions on individual issues, especially in relation to reproduction technology, but also in other areas. Technological developments throughout the field of biotechnology are moving very quickly, especially in the field of genetic engineering, and technology provides us with opportunities to prevent and treat serious illness, help the childless and prevent severe disabilities and suffering in many families. As legislators, we obviously have a great urge to regulate the choices that individual human beings can take that are just linked to the paragraphs of this law. The changes made in each revision of the law do not come mainly as a result of our ethical fundamental view – that it changes – but because there have been technological innovations that we did not foresee in the previous revision of the law. Legally, a law that has expired in a number of areas, as the current biotechnology law is – and was already twice, with intervals of 10 years – to be characterised as a bad law. I would therefore like to raise the fundamental question of whether it is necessary to regulate in detail as much as we do with today's legislative proposals, knowing that other countries have not found this necessary, and that in a few years' time we have to carry out a comprehensive revision of the law. I'm sure this can happen without us coming into conflict with fundamental values in our society, and for the benefit of those to whom this law applies. So let's think about it the next time the law has to be reviewed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1253	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1258	As the child's representative appointed by the Children's Ombudsman of the Christian People's Party, I have committed myself to seeing the policy through children's glasses. As far as biotechnology is concerned, I would like us all to be children's representatives, for several of the issues that are being addressed today, to be crucial for future generations, for the children and grandchildren of our children. It's a big paradox that at a time when we know more than ever what genes have to say to who we are and become like people, it's constantly promoting a rhetoric that completely undermines the children's need to know their origins. The Convention on the Rights of the Child states that all children have the right to know and care from their parents. Then we all agree that adoptive parents or non-genetic parents can be just as caring and good as biological parents. But that's not the question. The big question is how we will facilitate children's growth conditions when we, as a state, lay the groundwork, because that's exactly what we're doing with biotechnology. Even the most liberals lay some framework for who should get assisted conception, whether it's about fitness, age or other criteria. When I put on the goggles, there is no doubt that the best thing for the child is to grow up under safe and loving conditions and – yes, if possible – with his biological parents. Then, of course, reality is not ideal, and fortunately, children who grow up under other conditions are doing very well, even with children who grow up under destructive conditions. But the fact that many children are doing well under such conditions is not an argument that we as a state should thus throw our hands into the weather and say: look, it's fine even if children grow up with just a mother or just a father, or with someone who is not a genetic mother, just a biological mother, or other different constellations. Of course, it can go well, but that's not the question. The question we should ask ourselves is simply: if all other conditions are the same, that is, that the care and the material factors are the same, what is the best thing for the child? That they get the safety and care that two parents can provide, versus a parent? Of course, it's better for the child with two parents. And likewise: given that care is the same: is it better for the child to grow up with his biological father and mother, rather than grow up as a donor child? Yes, and we must dare say that. I hear politicians hiding behind lack of research – we haven't done enough research on this, so we shouldn't say anything about what's best for the child. But I wonder what kind of research you're waiting for to be convinced that it's better for a child to grow up with two parents than a parent. The Christian People's Party will always stand on the child's side, and we think it's going to be completely wrong when adults' needs and wishes are going to trump what's best for their children.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1269	The hunt for the perfect human being is not over. As the Christian People's Party sees it now, we are on our way into a sorting society where the human diversity of society is gradually being erased. By sorting, the Christian People's Party believes that we choose away from the community because there are some who have special properties or diseases. The majority of the population chooses to take steps in the liberalising direction of biotechnology. Already today there is sorting. We choose children who will be allowed to come to the world, and we choose who should not. The Christian People's Party believes that foetal diagnostics should only be used when studies can lead to a health benefit for mother or children, and not when the aim is to find deviations that will lead to selection and selection. We're all alone in saying that. The Christian People's Party also believes that the PGD, which is allowed to disease fertilized eggs in order to hatch germinal life with qualities that society defines as incompatible with life, opens up to sorting already in our laboratory. The Christian People's Party is concerned that when we say no one is to be sorted away, when we say that we want a society that has room for everyone, then there's a society of diversity we're occupied with. We're concerned that the kids have a self-esteem, regardless of their characteristics. That is why this has been an important matter for us. The question is, what kind of society are we going to have, and who is perfect in that society?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1278	Despite the fact that the Christian People's Party is in a minority in this matter, there is a lot in the Committee's attitude that is encouraging reading for a KrF, for example. this section: ‘The Committee assumes that all people have intrinsic and inviolable self-value. As a result, all humans have the same value regardless of their characteristics, abilities and level of function. Human life, therefore, cannot be graduated or ranked. It is also a consequence of this that no human being is to be used as a medium for other humans.» Biotechnology is not just about science and medicine, but about what kind of view we have of man. Is man the sum of his genes or the sum of his characteristics? Or is man more than matter, more than its level of function? The Christian People's Party's policy is based on a human vision that is expressed precisely in the intrinsic self-value to which the committee refers so beautifully in the section I read. Such a view of man is not just ideology, but is seen in practical politics. And in the case of biotechnology, this human vision urges us to apply the precautionary principle. Realising all technological opportunities does not necessarily contribute to making our society a warmer and more inclusive community that preserves the inviolable value of individuals. Rather, on the contrary: we already see the consequences in a neighbouring country, where almost no children are born with Down's syndrome anymore. But if you do something about it, someone's going to object. Yes, for us who believe that all human beings are born with inherent human dignity, regardless of chromosome numbers or other pluses in the recalculation, the sort of sorting is a frightening signal of where we're going as a society. I think President Helga Byfjällien gave us an important reminder in her consultation response to the Biotechnology Act earlier this year, when she said: ‘And probably many of the answers are in the genes. But we must never lose sight of the unconditional human dignity as the starting point for all legislation...» With unconditional human dignity as the starting point, it is my call today that we are restrictive in terms of changes that promote sorting, and progressive where technology can help us to make life better for people who already exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1299	I record that we have entered a voice of speakers from the Christian People's Party here. I very much appreciate that, because you should always listen to the Christian People's Party in debates like this. Then I record that the representative Bekkevold promotes a fundamental cantarian view of the ethical approaches to this. The representative probably knows that the left has more to do with the consequences of the case – to use some professional concepts in this context. It leads me to address the question of surrogati, which I know is far from the Christian People's Party in this debate. Opening up altruistic surrogati was not a simple matter for the Left, precisely because it was important to prevent social pressure against those who might be asked to contribute to such a process. This is not unproblematic. That is why it must be strictly and properly regulated. We are alone in promoting this proposal. At the same time, the woman herself should be able to control her own body. If a woman wants to help the childless, it is a sister or a sister-in-law, it should be far inside to forbid it. The left, therefore, through a thorough debate that altruistic surrogati in Norway will in any case be less problematic than commercial surrogati in poor countries. We know that, even if it's forbidden. The trend seems to be increasing. This offence is difficult to prosecute, because it is impossible to do so without the child who is already born. I know that the critics of surrogati think it is morally wrong to break the biological and psychological ties between the pregnant and the child. I think these tapes have a meaning, but the world is full of children who don't grow up with their biological parents for far worse reasons than being strongly wanted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1308	Biotechnology offers as many opportunities as possible. But many of these possibilities can also give rise to a development that we don't want. A good starting point should therefore, in our opinion, be that we use biotechnology for the benefit of people in a society where there is room for everyone. Many may suggest that it has become a goal to get a society without sickness and suffering. Does this mean that we are getting less and less room for diversity? If so, what does it do to us as human beings and society? It's important questions to ask. Some think it's a right to have children. Is it also a right to have healthy children? A number of methods allow both components, such as preimplantation diagnostics, foetal diagnostics, egg and sperm donation. When the bulk of the population opens up egg donation and assisted fertilization for lonely, the Christian People's Party believes that the majority puts the wishes of adults for their own children ahead of the child's rights to know their mother and father. Then we say in the Christian People's Party that we stand on the side of children. The Christian People's Party fights for a warmer society, and we want to talk to the children's cause in this context as well. Therefore, the Christian People's Party challenges the other parties to children's rights. Recently, the donor child has stood up and just called for the voice of children and the consideration of children in the debates on egg donation and assisted fertilisation. In an article in the Evening Post for a short time back, a donor child writes that he feels that the debate is influenced by politicians ‘which apparently will legislate most of the things that can make it easier for people to have their own children. The case of children is, as it were, becoming alarmingly small». The Christian People's Party believes it is absolutely essential that all children of donors be assured that they can gain knowledge of their biological origin. One of the sperm banks, Cryos, writes: The donor has agreed to be contacted by the child. But Cryos is not responsible for whether the donor will actually do this in the future. Who takes responsibility for ensuring the child’s rights? When the other parties want to facilitate several donor children, it is alarming that only the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the SV will have a further effort to secure these children's right to knowledge of their biological parents. The Christian People's Party believes that the child's right and real opportunities to know its origin must be taken seriously. That is why the Christian People's Party also asks: Is it really best for children to plan with one parent? The majority now believe that lone women should have access to assisted fertilisation in line with couples. The Christian People's Party believes that the requirement for an established couple relationship is reasonable based on the assessment that all children should be able to have the opportunity to grow up with two parents when this can be planned. It is not because we have doubts about the individual’s care ability – it is about giving the child the safest possible starting point.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1326	I think it is time to give thanks to my great colleagues who today dare to put several important issues on the agenda, and who courageously engage in a very demanding debate. I am very much in favour of the offer of assisted fertilisation also being valid for lonely. The Progress Party has also programmed that we support egg donation, but then with a premise that the donor should be known. This is a fight that many women have been in for many years alone, and today I also think it is right from this pulpit to give thanks to all the men who have actually dared to stand with us. Each year it is born approximately once a year. 60,000 children in Norway. 3-4 pst. of which they were born by assisted fertilisation. Today's legal text on assisted fertilisation says that only married people or cohabitants are entitled to the offer of assisted fertilisation. This also applies to gay couples. On the other hand, we don't have a similar offer for solitude, despite knowing that it happens abroad. The family is the most important building block in society, and there must be room for different forms of life and family. As long as the child’s best interests are always taken into account, the Advancement Party wants to open the way for single people to take advantage of assisted conception. The community has moved, and is moving, forward. As of today’s date, Norway is the only Nordic country that still has a ban on solitude through assisted fertilisation. The Progress Party therefore believes that we should go ahead to ensure that single people can also have the opportunity to have children. The fact that the Progress Party supports assisted fertilisation for solitude does not necessarily mean that we have taken a decision on how this should be financed, and that is something to come back to in a later debate. The most important thing for us is that the ban on assisted fertilisation for loneliness is lifted. That is how individuals can choose to avail themselves of this option without a ban being in the way. The most important thing for me and the Advance Party is that the child is wanted, that the child is loved. We know that in no way do two more to be good parents, and if this can help on the Norwegian birth figures, it might be an extra plus.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1343	It is at the end of a long debate on biotechnology, a subject that is demanding, but it has been a respectful debate. This is about what communities we want in the future. I was in a TV series called "On the Away" where I got to look at the possibilities of just biotechnology in the United Kingdom. I see that some of the possibilities that are given in the United Kingdom are actually opening up in Norway too. Although there has been a respectful debate, I feel that human dignity is to some extent 'on the road' when we look at the outcome of what is happening today in Stortinget. But there's one party I want to praise, which has stood up for human dignity, and it's the Center Party, which has raised that perspective, together with the Christian People's Party, in a way that I'm very happy about. This gives you possibilities. I also think it is important to stress that the Christian People's Party believes that NIPT and foetal diagnostics can be good when looking for conditions that can be treated, for example. different types of mother-child blood. But the Christian People's Party believes there is a difference between using a method to save lives and using the same method with the aim of discovering chromosome abnormalities and properties – conditions that cannot be treated. In the evening post today Morten Magelssen and Professor Jan Helge Solbakk write: ‘Food diagnostics in the form of ‘early ultrasound’ and maternal blood tests are intended to estimate the risk of chromosome abnormalities in the foetus, such as trisomi 21 [[Down's syndrome]] Magelssen and Solbakk write about the Workers' Party and the Progress Party's comments in the setting that the good intentions to save lives are based on misinformation. I also liked that the Working Party, Progress Party, SV and Left write in the setting: ‘The majority acknowledge that the debate on the introduction of the NIPT test, yes foetal diagnostics in general, can be perceived as offensive to those who have different children and the fear of misuse of knowledge and the sorting society is extremely real. The majority recognise the many dilemmas by developing technologies that can both be used and abused.’ It is important to be involved in these debates, no matter what conclusion we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1366	In Stavanger lives Anne Hansen. She's the mother of Magnus in 13 years. Anne and the family live with a brutal conviction that their son may not have a very long life. It will also be associated with pain and a difficult health. Magnus is born with a severe therapy-resistant form of epilepsy, but the family still has a lot to enjoy. They see it as a victory, and the doctors see it as a wonder that Magnus still lives and can even go himself. But the family also knows that Magnus can at any time be hit by a severe epidemic that makes him bedridden, or can kill him. Anne is the head of the Mitokondrie Association in Norway and fights to prevent other women from transmitting such serious diseases to their future children. Mitocondrine is inherited from mother, but now the researchers have found a way to replace these mitochondrines that do not work, in the eggshell of mother, and replace them with fresh cells from a donor egg. The Labour Party, together with the Progress Party and the Socialist Left, wants this treatment to become legal in Norway and that our professionals should be able to follow developments in the countries in which this treatment is being carried out. We have come to the conclusion that saying that this should be illegal in Norway means defending that children are born with a known, serious illness when we know that it is possible to do something about it. The mitochondria is called the power plant of the cells. When they are not working properly, severe failure of energy-intensive organs such as the heart, nervous system and muscles occurs. The earlier you develop the disease, the worse the symptoms get for those who are affected. There is very little to use from this donor egg shell for a mitochondria donation. The very nucleus of the cell remains untouched. It's in the cell nucleus at 99.99 pst. of the DNA of man, that is, all genetic properties. The child still inherits Mom's freckles and Dad's curls. Claiming that this gives children three parents is a misunderstanding. The United Kingdom, as mentioned in the debate, has debated this thoroughly and opened up the method because it safely prevents genetic disease that can cause children pain, suffering and early death. The first children to be born during mitochondria donation are expected to be born in England later this year. This is a development of the Norwegian professional community should follow and contribute to Norway. In the Workers' Party, we are pleased that the Socialist Left Party and the Advance Party also contribute to a majority to explore the possibility of helping these families.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1378	I want to say that I believe this with human dignity is something everyone who has dealt with this message has been concerned about, not just representatives of one or two parties. The reason I chose to take the floor again was the representative Gruvan, who talked about putting the needs of adults ahead of the needs of the children. I think I'll put myself in the place of the children, the children who are actually born: would it have been better if they weren't born at all? These are people who get good caregivers and get the opportunity to live a maybe very good life. Would it have been better if those children were not born at all? I think it's a little bit weird to put those perspectives up against each other. I think there are many ways to a good life and to a good human dignity.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1385	The representative Count of the Christian People's Party demanded that others speak the child's case, as if no other parties were concerned about it. So then I get to say something about what SV goes in for. We propose a health certificate to be a parent. We are proposing to ensure knowledge of our own parents, even if you are involved in assisted fertilization abroad – together with the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. SV proposes to lower the limit for knowing that assisted fertilisation has occurred, from 18 to 15 years. SV proposes to maintain non-anonymous sperm donation. So we agree on the child's best. Where the ways of the SV and the Christian People's Party are separated, the belief is that it is against the best of the child to be able to have a single parent, if you are born by assisted conception. We separate layers with the Christian People's Party when they think it's against the child's best to be at egg donation. And SV separates layers with the Christian People's Party and all the other parties in the position and instead stands together with the majority of the Biotechnology Council when we believe that everyone should have the right to assisted conception regardless of the legal sex of their parents. I think that's going to happen in the future anyway. I am very sorry that parties that have otherwise been with SV in the fight for LHBT rights, such as the Workers' Party and the Left, are failing here, and rather go for the solutions of the past. SV believes that love for children and care is what determines whether people become good parents, not if their parents are the ones who happen to have produced the egg cell or sperm. We want people to have knowledge of their biological origins, but love and care are most important. Then the representative Hareide of the Christian People's Party took up the human dignity, as he praised the Center Party to promise, as if the other parties did not lift the human dignity in this matter. It is a description that I very much disagree with when we deal with an important matter such as the Biotechnology Communication. SV promotes human dignity, but what was specifically taken up by Hareide and the Christian People's Party was abortion and the NIPT test. Today, a woman can get the KUB test to a late-away, which in practice is the Christian People's Party today. Then you get the information so late that if you have to choose, it becomes a distance away. It's serious. It's an ethical dilemma. Instead, if you get the NIPT test, you can get the knowledge sooner, and we can avoid senaborts. I think that's important. For SV diversity is good. That's why we've taken the fight for care money, which makes it easier for parents who have children in all shapes and shapes, no matter what they struggle with. We cheer on that diversity. But we fight for that diversity and human dignity by giving help, not by denying women information, not by forcing the woman to bring forth a child she might not have wanted if she had more information. The roads are separated by the human world. We believe in knowledge and help instead of denying knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1400	I just have some comments for the representative Kjerkol, who said that mitochondria donation could be the future, and she referred to a guy from Stavanger. 14 of the 15 members of the Biotechnology Council believe that we do not have enough knowledge of this. There's only one person who thinks we have it. There is one country that has opened up this – no more. Then there is a great risk of introducing this particular method. The British Ethics Council also asked major questions in coming generations, and that little was known. I just had to say from this pulpit that this is no simple matter. Then, as the rapporteur and committee leader, I would like to thank you for the debate and for the way we have had the debate in the Chamber today, and for the way we have had discussions in the Committee. Having a high level when we're discussing, and having respect for each other's views, is incredibly important. I want to say thank you for that. So to the proposal that came a little late from the Workers' Party. As the latest version is available – this case we are actually coming back to – I am not sure whether this is in law or in regulation, but at least you are raising the issue. It will support the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1409	I want to make a final article, as a comment on more articles, that goes on with the children's right to know their parents. What disappoints me most, in fact, in the treatment of this matter, is that the plurality is so clear in the remarks that the biological principle is not so precise. The comments make a very clear point, for example: from the Labour Party, Progress Party, SV and Left, that we have a long experience in Norway with sperm donation where father is not a genetic hazard, but this has given us further problems. It's said from the pulpit, and one argues, would it be better for these children not to have been born at all? It is said that the most important thing is that children are wanted and loved. Yes, of course, but it's incredibly important for me to say that children have courts in Norway, that we have the United Nations Children's Convention that states that children, as far as possible, have the right to know their parents and get care from them. Then I can understand and respect that one can still conclude otherwise, but I think that the committee in the setting and in the debate here ignores these basic rights of the child, up to what is then the adult's right to have children. I'm actually disappointed, I'm going to have to say that. The same applies to the provision of embryo donation, which the Council of State quite rightly argued against in its statement, where a now not only allows sperm donation and egg donation, but where there is a likely multiple number here in the hall to allow a combination. Then the child won't have any biological connection with his parents, and at least it's much more liberal than what I thought the Stortinge would go into this round. So I just want to have a brief comment on assisted conception for single people, for whom several people have spoken and spoken. It is clear in the setting that there are certain conditions that must be met, including: that you have to show that you can give your child safe growth conditions. I don't know how to evaluate it, it's going to be a healthcare service. It's also about a big asset, so if one makes this as if it's about to be allowed in Norway, I think some people out there are mistaken. For this is with some rest, as I experience the decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1418	Now maybe the debate is starting to get closer to the end. I think it's been a very good debate. I think it's also made clear some of the dilemmas that we're in the middle of, which are challenging here. But I just thought I had to say that with regard to my reply to the representative Wilkinson, I talked a lot about genetic testing, but I understand that what he was concerned about was this that went on the authority's ability to make national assessments in relation to special considerations, and that not only should you use the European Medicines Agency to approve this. However, I believe that the majority of the committee's comments, on which we are involved, sum up what we believe to be important: that we support the proposal to repeal the authorisation system under the Biotechnology Act and believe that the authorisation granted by the pharmaceutical authorities and the REK is sufficient and good enough. So to the Labour Party proposal that has been put forward today. It's a proposal that I initially have a great deal of sympathy for and really could think of me as positive to support, but I think it's a little late, and without really having the opportunity to look at the economic aspect around it. But I expect that there will still be some hours until we're going to vote, so there might be a chance that we can go a little round to see if you're going to support the proposal or not. Because initially, I very much agree with the proposal, but it is a little bit a shame that such proposals are coming so late, at the tamp. But that happens, and then I think it's okay to take a little round. So we've signaled that we're very positive about this, but we have to look at the economics and go for a little round before we choose whether we're going to support this proposal tonight or tonight.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1425	The President can assure the representative that it will be several hours that you can use for a little different purposes. The representative Carl-Erik Grimstad has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1432	I think we should go along with the Progress Party to get back to the Workers' Party's proposal. I would like to make a small comment on the exchange of lines I had with the representative Bollestad here instead. The correct wording in the setting is that Stortinget asks the government to return to Stortinget in an appropriate way to limit the use of donor semen to the number of families per donor, and not the number of children per donor. I think we can agree on that wording. In the end, this debate has become exactly what I hoped for: low-spoken, reflective and with room for doubt. I really appreciate that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1441	To the proposal that was put forward today a little over 1 p.m. 9: The revised proposal got better than the first. However, we are voting against, but we can support the intention of the proposal, and this is something you have to come back to. It may seem to be a good idea, but I suspect it also has a cost that is not reflected and discussed carefully enough for us. But the fact that we're voting against it doesn't mean that we're against it. Also in the rest of the setting we have clearly shown in our remarks what we mean, and I am glad that there has been no more theme here around it. No one should be in doubt about what the Right believes in these questions, it's just reading the setting. So now there's been a little round about kids and taking care of the kids. It is important, and it was good that it was included. But now we must not make this a debate about who is most concerned about children and the best of children. I am reasonably sure that all parties are concerned with the best interests of children, and that all parties want to care for children in the best possible way. Nevertheless, there is an important perspective, which was lacking for a while in the debate today, even though I myself was involved in it in my post. What I agree with is that in some cases this debate is a little bit much about parents' wishes for children rather than about the child itself, and that is why an important point was raised, among other things. by one of Barna's big business representatives here in Stortinget. Let's remember one thing: no children have asked to come to the world. There's always someone else who puts them into the world, and it impresses me in both this and other questions when we discuss children's best. So it can be suggested that because something is possible, it's okay to do it. I am very concerned that in the future too – and it also bears the debate and the setting off – it is not the opportunities that should govern us in biotechnology, but the ethics. Like many others, I would like to thank you for a fine debate, both internally in my own party, in the committee, and not least here in the Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1460	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1476	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1485	Differences in power and wealth are increasing in Norway. They also do that in Health-Norway. The NRK reports that 133 out of 141 health business managers have wages of more than 1 million. kr. 22 out of 28 managing directors in health enterprises earn more than the Prime Minister, and 27 out of 28 earn more than the Minister of Health. But especially unfair and bad for the morals of health professionals, nurses and doctors who stand every day, it is that even when these leaders are kicked, there are many of them who receive millions of wages for years. We have guidelines for management pay. They have not been followed. For example, the Committee: to the work and final agreement of the Director of the UNN in Tromsø, who resigned from his post in February 2018. The director was to be guaranteed both a salary for the year and a right-wing position of 85 pst. of the salary at the time of retirement. The Committee agrees that this violates the guidelines. Leader pay shall be competitive but not pay-leading. The emphasis is on moderation. Termination payments should not be used when the manager himself has initiated the termination, and the general rule shall be that the right-wing position shall not be used. The majority of the Health and Welfare Committee considers that health businesses have not complied with national guidelines on management pay and other remuneration. The majority believe that the government should have done more to ensure that these guidelines are followed by health businesses, and expect more to be done in the future. The majority of the Committee, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the SV and the Christian People's Party will now have a majority for two proposals, among others. that we are going to review working and final agreements for the managers of all health care businesses in order to determine whether the agreements are in accordance with the rules. Here the government parties say that it is difficult to go through already concluded agreements. I and SV agree, but when the government has not managed to keep control – yes, then the Stortinget must go in and make sure that there is control, including over remuneration and right-wing positions. The majority also support a proposal to ask the government to assess the practices of health enterprises with termination benefits and compensation and to ensure that they do not use termination benefits when the managers themselves take the initiative to resign. It's only when they have to be kicked that you need to pay back, to get control and clean up. Then there are also some suggestions that don't get a majority. The Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party are proposing to stop fees for employment which in any case result from the job as a hospital director – they already earn well. The Central Party and SV want legal positions – where appropriate, already in place – to be within the core tariff agreement, and SV alone wants no one to have a higher salary than the Prime Minister. Then I will take up the suggestions SV has in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1502	The representative Nicholas Wilkinson then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1507	Health care managers have demanding tasks and heavy responsibilities. Our hospitals are complex organisations, and healthcare is in constant development. The State guidelines on government wages include, inter alia, the following: that management salaries are competitive but not pay-leading and that moderation is to be emphasised. There is a unanimous agreement, and that is good, because these are the rules that apply. As I said, these are post vacancies, with low job protection and a high level of responsibility. Of course, we must also consider that. It has also gradually become an additional dimension related to the large exposure that managers in Norwegian hospitals have to expect – an additional load that appears to only grow. However, developments show that management salaries in health enterprises have increased more than significantly. The management salaries in Health Nord increased by 24 p.m. from 2010 to 2015 and this cannot continue. We are pleased that a unanimous committee has decided. Termination benefits and compensation, i.e. what is involved in parachutes and large after-paid contracts, are not to be included in our common healthcare service either. It's unreasonable, and there can't be any major differences between those who lead, and those who do the service to the patients. Then the leaders will lose legitimacy, and leadership will be difficult. We don't earn on such a development. We're losing it. Therefore, there are some extra signals to the health minister in this setting. Then the representative from SV has taken up the proposal that we in the Workers' Party have to stop fees.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1520	As has been the case in the past, a high proportion of managers in health enterprises have a high wage. Wages in excess of one million are not uncommon. It is also closely linked to the salary level of medical specialists, who are highly employed in these jobs. In its claims for ownership, the Council of State has clarified that the guidelines for directors' salaries and allowances in health care establishments are to follow the State guidelines and, inter alia, it states. wages and salaries are to be competitive but not wage-making. The emphasis should therefore be on moderation, but at the same time it is important to involve competent health care managers. There seems to be a consensus on this in Stortinget. We have to remember that many of the country's leading medical specialists, surgeons and other professional groups are already making a very good profit, they are working long shifts and they have a competence that is requested. If we are to interpret, inter alia: In his statement, is it the case that the majority would like them to fall into pay to take on executive duties? Is it that a public sector leader is not worth as much as a leader in other sectors? There's a question you can ask yourself. I understand the intention of the proposal, but when one goes so hard, it may seem that a manager of a health company is not worth as much as a manager of other companies. For example, Health South-East is one of the largest enterprises in Norway, which is larger than most listed companies in Norway. Then it is not illogical that wages are relatively high, with such a great responsibility. In addition, Wilkinson mentions that the government has not controlled this. I guess he also believes that it is the government that ruled when the UNN-director mentioned was appointed. A lot of the leaders we're talking about today were added a few years ago, so one has to be a little careful so that one doesn't go wild in their own rhetoric. In terms of remuneration, both in the media and also here, in comments, I have agreed that it has developed a culture that we must limit, and there we agree that part of the after-paid schemes is not good enough for us – they are certainly good enough for those who are employed. Today, the parties to the government are voting against a majority proposal, namely that the government should go through all existing agreements and check for compliance with existing guidelines. It's not very difficult to check the conditions, because they're in the annual reports, so there's no big exercise, but what's a little unclear is what the majority thinks you should do if it doesn't match. Should one cancel the agreements, shall one renegotiate them, or shall one stand here in the hall and criticize the Council of State? I am excited about the continuation and reminds me that these are work contracts concluded between two parties. It is not up to Stortingen to cancel these agreements, and I would like to believe that it is not good if we instruct the Council of State to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1535	I don't think it's strange that this debate is coming, given that we've seen some things about pretty good paybacks. I think it's important to be careful, and it's important for health companies, and to everyone else, to have both wages and salaries – or if you get laid off, to have arrangements afterwards – that are not unmusical and that people most react strongly to. So I realize that the debate is coming, and I understand that the proposal is being promoted, but when I hear the rapporteur's suggestion here that the Council of State has not taken action and has not done anything to address this, it definitely does not. There has been a clear message – I believe it was in 2015 – to health companies to ensure that they follow the guidelines that the State has set for public wages. Then I think that the representative of Stensland points out some things that are important to bring with him, that many of the people who enter these senior management positions also have a high salary in the positions they come from. We also see that there's a lot of pressure on leaders in the health sector, and there's a lot of attention around it, and that means you have to have wages that allow you to compete to get good people. But I'm also a little excited about how the majority here sees you going to deal with it after taking this review – as you can find in the annual reports – of management salaries, and how you're going to follow it up. But I agree, and I assume that health care companies are following up the clear and clear signal that the Council of State has given, that they should have competitive pay conditions, but that they should definitely not be the one who goes ahead and raises the general salary level. I am concerned that we must ensure that we do not have agreements in the future, new agreements that are concluded, that people experience as very unmusical, and that cannot be defended. So it's true that many of these agreements were concluded while there were some other parties that ran and had the Council of States, including the Council of State. SV was part of the parliamentary basis. But now you put the lead on what's going to happen in the future, and then it's important to pay attention to it, and I also perceive that the Council has given clear messages that he wants to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1544	This situation with very many directors who feel disproportionately good, came — and has accelerated — with the health service model. There are multiple parties that have responded to this before. In 2010, the impending representative and party leader Erna Solberg said to the VG that she was critical of the lucrative wage agreements in Health-Noreg, and that one should go closer to them. The Prime Minister has not wanted to comment on this matter now. It may be understandable when we are put to the vote in the committee on this matter. One thing is that one has one, two, three, or four health leaders in Norway who seem good, but the point is that there are so many who feel good, and there are so many underdirectors who charge million wages. It is also a problem when you just lose your job and continue in another position with the same salary or almost the same – that a director's salary is passed on without a director's job. This is about trust in our common health care system. When we put forward the proposal for a representative, it was up to the case that the CEO of UN left off in February this year. He had an agreement where he said he would keep the salary of almost 1.9 million. kr out the year, and then 85 pst. of the salaries until he himself chose to retire. We believe that this is contrary to the revised guidelines of 2015. After that, it has become apparent that there are other health leaders who can ask questions about whether the State guidelines are followed. It is clear that regional health professionals are included in the defined companies to which the guidelines apply. I am pleased that we have received a majority in the Committee to review these work and final agreements and to assess the practice of health care professionals with termination benefits and pay. However, the almost most important proposal we do not get multiples, and that is to ensure that one in the case of right-wing arrangements is paid in the main tariff agreement that is adapted to the new tasks. It's reasonable to require. One should be able to have a good salary when one has a great responsibility. If you get another job, you don't understand if you want to keep the pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1557	What has emerged in the last few months and years about management wages and after salaries in the healthcare system does not create good reputation or trust. It is also not musical; it is unmusical, as the representative Hoksrud said. I think we all agree that it is important that the money in health care is spent wisely. I believe that there is reason to be sceptical about this sky-high level of pay and about today's use of final agreements and legal positions in healthcare companies. A must and should follow national guidelines for both wages and salaries. When we see that health companies have not followed the government guidelines on management pay and other remuneration, we believe that this should have been done to ensure that these guidelines are followed in healthcare companies, and we expect more to be done to stop the use of final contracts and legal positions for health business managers. So it's important for me to say that many of these agreements are not the responsibility of today's State Council. These are things that have happened over time. I agree with the representative Toppe that it is part of the business model. The level of pay must be high in order to get people with the necessary skills in place, but it should not be higher than that either. As it looks from the agreements now, it's not just to get people in place, but there's an incredible amount that's been negotiated afterwards. We need to be clear that the level of pay should not be higher than that we always ensure good managers with good skills, because we have a health service that needs money, and we have people who need good services. That is what the money has to do first and foremost, it must not be that we feel that an excessive share of the money is going to be paid by the manager.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1568	The State Guidelines were established by the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries with effect from 13 February 2015. I have stated in the business meeting that the guidelines will apply both to regional health businesses and to health businesses. Today’s guidelines replace the guidelines laid down on 31 March 2011. They continued the principle that management wages should be competitive but not pay-leading. Another important step taken at the same business meeting was to adopt the amendments to the statutes. It was clarified that health regions are required to draw up an annual statement of salary and other remuneration for the Executive Director and other senior staff. The declaration shall be included in the annual accounts and therefore also be publicly available. It is the responsibility of the Management Board to employ the Executive Director and to establish the entity’s framework for the remuneration of senior management. The agreement concluded shall be in line with the guidelines of the State, competitive but non-remunerated. Moderation shall be displayed. The principles of national guidelines do not provide a facilitator of what is the right level of pay. Compared with the corresponding other state-owned companies, so-called categories 3 and 4, the salaries of the managing directors in the health regions are not paid in any way. According to the Guidelines, reasonable termination payments may be agreed for senior executives. The termination fee should not be used when the manager himself has initiated the termination. Termination and pay during the period of notice should also not exceed 12 months’ remuneration. In practice, however, many health business agreements are limited to 12 months. Legal positions are not directly addressed in the State guidelines. When health business boards recruit managers internally, these managers often have to interrupt clinical careers. Their closest local job option is exactly the same health care provider. They then need a guarantee to go back to clinical work if they do not succeed as leaders. It is important that the boards have sufficient room for action to recruit good managers. Good managers are an important prerequisite for success — both in relation to their own employees and in terms of providing services to the population. In the light of the issues raised in the last few months, I would like to ask regional health companies to review their practices in the field of final agreements and the use of legal remedies.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1587	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1593	It was probably the case that the Council of State also asked healthcare professionals to review their practice three years ago. My question is whether he accepts that nothing has happened, since he has to ask again. And how will he follow up on this, after he has to ask healthcare professionals again to review his practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1598	I am somewhat uncertain about what the representative believes nothing has happened, because there is an indication that agreements have been concluded after the introduction of the new guidelines that are contrary to the guidelines. I'm not aware that that's the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1603	I have a question that goes on at the time of the State Council's intervention, that these national guidelines do not say anything specific and concrete about the correct level of pay. Among other things, we have see an article series in the VG which compares the salaries of health managers with those of other members of the country. It's not quite comparable, but there was an example of an economic director in a half-sized Norwegian hospital lighting more than the head of defense. Does the Council of State think it's a proper salary level?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1608	What is the policy is that wages should be competitive, but not pay-paying, and if one compares state-owned, whole-time companies – as health enterprises are, in categories 3 and 4 – it is definitely the way health enterprises are not wage-leading. The representative also knows well that managers recruited in healthcare often come from clinical practice. A large number of our clinicians in the hospitals have wages that are above what leaders have. Should we also be able to recruit skilled doctors to take this kind of leadership position, which I think is wise, I think it would be unwise to have a pay structure that made us exclude good clinicians from being leaders in hospitals. It had meant that they had fallen significantly in wages, in addition to having settled their clinical development during that period, which also creates challenges when they are going back into clinical practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1615	I hope this will be the last round of this, and I think the Minister of Health will do that too. We all probably want this to be controlled – I think – but this has to be controlled by the rules from 2015, which SV supports. That is why I will now ask the Council of State whether he can guarantee that no new agreements will be concluded with remuneration of more than one year or post-paid even if the managers themselves choose to leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1620	I do not accept the representative's premise that there is no control over this. As I also said to the representative Toppe, I am not aware that agreements have been concluded that are contrary to the new guidelines. When it comes to the question of one-year pay, I am also not aware that it has been given it. Some of the questions that I want to look at are whether there is a need for further leadership, because I see that it has formed a practice where everyone lies down at the maximum limit of 12 months. I do not think that is necessarily in line with the intention, and that is why I am working on that question. With regard to own-initiative legal positions, I see that the majority of the Committee proposes that we have a more stringent practice for health businesses than for the rest of the country. I don't know if it's wise. In many cases, it will not be easy to define who actually took the initiative to end one. We have strong job protection in Norway, and it also means that a person often has to reach a good consensus in such situations.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1629	Yes, you have to come to an agreement, but some of the things that I have talked to – health professionals, nurses and doctors – have been cursed about are really quite simple: it is that when the leaders really have to go because they have done something very wrong and done a bad job, they are allowed to choose it for themselves, so that what really happened is not on the CV – namely that they have been fired. It's not very hard to solve this. This can be done by making the reality finally visible, that once you have made a very serious mistake and have to go, it also has to come out. It's about justice to everyone else in the health system. But I really want to thank you, because even though the Council of State did not choose to guarantee that there would not be any new agreements like this, although I think we could agree here, I interpreted his answer there. But I didn't quite understand why the Council of State thought that it would now be more stringent in health services than in other parts of the state – whether it was the demand for compensation – and why the Council of State believes that people who choose to leave their own post should be entitled to millions of taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1638	It is because the State guidelines say ‘should’ and not ‘should’. It's simply because you have to have a room to evaluate the individual situation. In Wilkinson’s world, either you get fired or you don’t get fired. In the real world, it's not that easy. In the real world, there may be good reasons for a leader to leave, but it is not necessarily that the good reasons are good enough for them to stand in a labour court case, precisely because we in Norway have chosen to have a very strong job protection – fortunately. This means that a person is often in a situation where, although there is a good basis for resigning, for example: in an assessment by the Board of Directors, it is not necessarily the case that the legal assessments indicate that undertakings would have a good case in legal proceedings. Then it's often like you have to come up with a solution. Therefore, one should also have guidelines that provide a basis for this, so that one is not forced to spend large resources on lawyers and lawsuits in situations where one could use less resources and come up with an amicable solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1645	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1650	Right Sveinung Stensland spoke of leaders not being as valued in public health if they get lower wages. If the value of a human being is measured in the salary they receive, I'm a little excited about what the Right thinks about health professionals or nurses, who didn't get even with a word in the post – only these poor leaders who will get a maximum of one year's pay if they get fired. Where is the exposure for those who need it? You're asked to have control. Again and again it is said: Why does SV say this when they have also been in government? Now the Right has been in government for five years, and they still have to refer to the Red-Green Government. So it's a 2015 legislation we're talking about. If the red-green government were to follow that code, they would have to be psychic. It's okay that the Right Party and the Advance Party believe that we on the left hand side are awfully capable, but so capable are we ourselves not. The important thing to talk about here is recruitment. We are not struggling with the recruitment of health managers. There has been no case for us to have lacked the ability to put in place sufficient skills in general among the managers of health companies. Nevertheless, this is where wages and salaries are galloping up with after-sales agreements, right-wing positions and million-dollar salaries – far above what the Prime Minister serves – for the vast majority of health business managers. There is one place where there is a lack of recruitment in health businesses. We need doctors and regulars. We lack nurses to take care of our elderly, anaesthetics nurses to secure our operations, and we lack health professionals. Almost none of them even get a full, fixed position. It is another proposal that we have to deal with. It might seem that SV is going to promote many important proposals that we're not sure if we get a majority in favour of. Here's a lack of recruitment. We hear a lot of crying and grief over how hard it will be for these leaders when they can only make a few million and not get many years of pay. I think that's very special. I would like the right parties to spend more time talking about those who do the real job in healthcare every day – doctors, nurses and health professionals. That's why I'm happy and proud that we're getting a majority today to go after pay agreements and stop paying back to those who choose to go off. Here we are talking about a heavy job. SV agrees that these leaders should serve more than others. They have to earn very well for us to be able to recruit good people. But there are limits. There are limits to how many years you should be able to be paid out of taxpayers' money once you have actually been fired. We in SV are happy that we can use that money for health professionals, nurses and doctors.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1667	There's a code for public companies that's been adopted here, and there's a number of grievances that have come here in the Great Britain about how a person practices it, but repeatedly we learn that what happens in practice is something other than what is our intention. The reason I take the floor is that I have had this experience for many years and so it is necessary that one should also address this matter in connection with the situation in North Norway. As one of the proposers, I have to say that I am quite upset that there is a culture in which you can keep a director's salary without a director's responsibility. In all other activities, it is the responsibility to follow the salary. It has been clarified by the Council of State that new guidelines replaced the 2011 guidelines, but it is clear that the guidelines you now have are formulated in such a way that there is room for interpretation, so there is more to a draw than fixed rules we are talking about. These are unclear guidelines. All agree that there should be a competitive wage without being paid for it. The private will be the payroll, that's a natural thing. When the representative Hoksrud says that what happens doesn't have to be unmusical, I have to say that this has nothing to do with music. This has something to do with money. It's pretty strong to characterize it as unmusical. The same representative says that it is wrong when things happen that are undefendable – defendable with whom? Is it possible that what happens can be defended by those who are otherwise in health care? The answer is simply no. What's most interesting is that not a single committee could be involved in what a majority is involved in I and II. Why is it so difficult for government representatives to review the practice of working and concluding agreements for managers? It should be an obvious matter that someone went through it and got a clear overview of them. I want to say that it is perfectly obvious that the Storting must get harder in the pinch. We cannot afford such agreements. The level of costs in Norway is high. Manager’s salaries and final agreements help to drive it up further. That is why the line of the Centre Party is soberness and clear rules – and therefore the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1685	After hearing the representative, Lundtigen, I couldn't stop myself. He doesn't see 'unmusical' as something you don't want. For me, at least something is unmusical, something I don't like, something I want to do with, and something I want to remove. Governments have sent clear instructions to health businesses on how to behave. I fully agree with the representative Lundtägen that after-sales agreements, which we have seen examples of now, are agreements with which one is not satisfied and which one does not want to continue to be there. But there are some agreements, and then it's a little difficult to do something about it. But I understand that we have a government council that is very clear about what he wants to do in the future, and that gives clear signals to health companies, where this is clear and clear. So I don't think we're so disagreeable, and then it'll be a little strange to listen to the representative Lundtigen's canonade from here, because we'll probably agree. I can reword ‘unmusical’ to ‘what I don’t want to be there’. This is about the fact that it's important for the people's confidence, and that's why we, on the part of the Progress Party, are concerned that we have agreements that will ensure it in a good way. Nor should the representative Lundtägen forget that he has been part of a basis for a government that has been in place for eight years, and that was put there when there were other agreements, and there were also clear signals from the Council of State in 2015. For those who are concerned about not wanting regional health businesses: the Progress Party is one of the parties that did not want them, but there is a large majority in this Chamber to continue them.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1696	When I take the floor, it's precisely because the same unculture worked under the red-green government. As a member of the Control and Constitutional Committee at the time, I was among the foremost people to point out that we don't want it that way. So there's a relationship between what Lundtigen has said earlier, and what he's saying now. I don't think this is going to be the last case, because it's an inherent culture of public leaders to formulate and make agreements so that one somehow comes within the scope of the interpretation room and the grey zone of the agreement, and that results in others – in this case health care employees – feeling that benefits are given to someone and that they create working conditions for those who are in charge of the practical exercise of health care, which is much, much harder and worse. It creates a bad working environment. It is then essential to know where we stand, and I am surprised that the government parties cannot support the desire for an overview of where we stand, so that one can learn from it and thus clarify what is today's practice, today's judgment exercise, so that one can clean up the matter – in the light of future agreements. But, as I said, I doubt that this is the last time we're discussing this, because it's an inherent force in strong people who demand high pay, to constantly exploit the system in spite of what is the attitude here in the Storting, and that goes out at the very opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1705	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1719	Many suggest that today we are dimensionalizing new Norwegian hospitals out of unrealistic leadership. An underestimates the area demand. An overestimating utilisation rate. It is planned that the local health service will take over many patients and that the need for daily treatment will be reduced. New hospitals in Norway are happy to fill the day they open. We have experience from Ahus, from Kalnes, and from St. Olav's hospital, but apparently we don't learn. Soon, perhaps, the same thing will happen in the Drama, in Gaustad and in Hell. Professor Sven Erik Gisvold at St. Olav’s hospital says to the Tidenskråg 14 April this year that the capacity of all small hospitals in Norway is needed. He thinks that a bedcut in a Norwegian hospital has gone too far. I'm in agreement. Health bureaucrats claim that several patients can be treated in day surgery and/or outpatient clinics. They may, but the truth is that more and more elderly and fragile patients with complex and resource-requiring disorders will require longer lay time than foreseen in the dimensioning of many of the new hospitals. The need for new hospitals won't go down, as many might think. Difor will be the new Norwegian hospital dimensioned for Corridor Asians. The average cover in Norwegian hospitals has for the longest time crossed a defensive limit. The coating in hospitals has been high for many years. Many have had a coating of about 100 pst., sometimes. There is one reason why the OECD and our own health directorate recommend an average coating of approx. 85 pst. as an upper defensive boundary. The high occupancy rate in Norwegian hospitals leads to a reduction in quality and care and poses a risk to patient safety. New research has shown that an over 92.5-fold increase in the delays in patient progression, the incidence of hospital infections and mortality among patients and lead to more disease among those added. The government itself writes in the National Health and Hospital Plan that there is a need for an increase in the daily capacity of Norwegian hospitals in the years to come, mainly because there are many more elderly people. Also Torgeir Bruun Wyller, professor of geriatry at Oslo University Hospital, asserts in Tidens Requirement 14 April that regional health professionals sub-dimension the number of bed places deliberately. The fact that new technology is to be found at the hospital is used as an argument. But we know that the situation also leads to more cleaning. Many of the new hospitals have had presidencies that I think have been totally unrealistic, such as the Sjukehuset Østfold, which would reduce operating costs by 150 million. SEK per year, including: because one would have a less need for manning. At the same time, it would increase its activity by 117 million. SEK in additional patient income. According to the Minister of Health, Kalnes was the new hospital model in Norway. Last year, there were 3,860 patients on the corridor there. In fact, on the same day that the king opened the hospital, Sarpsborg Arbeiderblad could document that there were patients on the corridor, and that there was no purchase of a screenplay. Trustees at Kalnes believe that tougher requirements for more efficient operation are a main reason for excessive taxes on many of the added and high sick leave. At the heart department, it is known that 47 employees ended last year as a result of what is described as unsustainable employment. The Health Authority has opened a case on the department. The emergency room has been detonated, and the board has decided to assign both more and more nurses to the medical clinic to stop the flight of personnel and to avoid further increases in sick leave. The patient community in Eastfold has stated in the Annual Report that they perceive that overall there is a significant risk to patient safety as a result of the current situation in Kalnes. That's not how we're going to feel when we build a new hospital in Norway. The same professionals as plana Kalnes are now planning the new common hospital at Health in the municipality of Molde. The consultancy has arranged for one to cut 106 mills, equivalent to 98 million. Compared with the crew in today's two hospitals, in Kristiansund and in Molde. When the long-term budget was rolled last time, last summer, pay was fixed to be added to Health Møre and Romesdal the first year of operation of a new hospital with a budget of 290 million. Compared to today’s operation. There were about the same number of normal beds planned in today's two hospitals. It would cost between 5.6 and 5.8 billion. The hospital now adapts the financial framework and reduced from 77 000 m 2 to 66 000 m 2. It's going to have 139 normal beds, towards today's 185. Such underfunding of new hospitals means that health professionals need to cut staff and operate vigorously in order to be able to afford to build new ones. At the same time, the government has presented health services to a red tape and productivity reform. Herlof Nilssonen, Managing Director of Health West, is quoted in Dagens Medisin in May this year as saying that the red tape reform has gone beyond patients. She's been waving Health West at 251 million. kr over 4 years. Nationally, it's about 1.3 billion. kr. The Medical Association is among those who warn against assuming that it is possible to obtain many more efficiencies through an additional reduction in the number of beds. Norway already has short lay time in hospitals and few entrances. According to the last report I read, only Israel and Turkey have had shorter lay time than Norway in the last few years. Norway is much lower than the OECD average. Nevertheless, developments have only continued. I agree with the Legeforeningen, Norway has reached an upper limit for heavy hospital efficiency over operation. UK health authorities see 85 pst. coating as an upper limit of defence. Norway should have done that too, but all hospitals in Health South-East are planning new hospitals with a high rate of exploitation, a 90 pst coating. and the maximum number of opening days, the maximum number of opening days, the maximum number of opening days in contravention of the SINTEF proposal to set rates of use and efficient operating hours at a moderate level. This cannot be done without the need for patients to be kept in the municipal health service, such as at Oslo University Hospital and in the plans for a new large hospital in Gaustad. Here one takes into account the need for more daily space based on projected needs, but then a reduction in need is added: 150 000 daily treatment per year, almost 50,000 of which are to be transferred to the municipality of Oslo. The problem is that the municipality is not yet aware of it – they will read about it in the press. In addition, about 46 000 daily treatments should be streamlined and the same number transferred to a non-scheduled patient hotel. We see the same thing in maternity care. When Health Bergen plans a new children's and youth hospital there 40 pst. of the births to be home after 6 to 24 hours, that means a reduction in average lying time. It's the municipalities that are going to take delivery of nannies who are going home early. The problem here, too, is that the municipalities have not shown anything about the new plans of the health care agency for the transfer of tasks. They read about it in the press. The National Audit Office’s report on the interaction reform, on resource use and quality, concluded that, following the interaction reform, the municipalities accept patients who are sicker than before, they have slightly increased their capacity or strengthened their competence. The National Audit Service asked the government to follow developments closely. The government cannot have done this when new hospital buildings are sized so that it is the municipalities that have to pay the bill. Studies show that, while the number of entries has been very small since the introduction of the reform, there has been a decrease in the number of entries, particularly among the elderly. The total number of hospital lay days has been reduced by 308 000 from 2010 to 2014. It's a 7 pst reduction. Nearly half of this reduction has come for patients over 80 years of age. My question after this problem description is: Can the Council of State do something about how the government will ensure good hospitals in Norway that facilitate an increase in bed capacity and a professional standard that ensures patient safety?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1753	Demographic developments with an increasing number of older people in the population will characterise the picture of the disease and the need for healthcare in the decades to come. Without any change, we may experience a sharp increase in resource needs in the coming years, as the national health and hospital plan forecasts show. The representative is concerned about the appropriate capacity for day care in hospitals. There are a lot of factors that affect a future bed requirement. This makes it difficult to estimate a precise figure for the required bed capacity. Demographic developments in the elderly and more people living with complex disorders may increase the need for bed capacity. At the same time, new treatment options, changes in organisation and better logistics could be counterproductive and reduce the need for daily treatment. It is the task of health regions to plan the future service provision. As a follow-up to the National Health and Hospital Plan, I commissioned them to develop regional development plans. These plans shall include, inter alia: show possible changes in task-sharing, capacity needs, organisation and operating economy – and their consequences. A model has been developed for predicting the activity and capacity needs of hospitals used by all health businesses in the work on development plans and planning of new hospitals. The model shall take into account, in addition to demographic projections, disease development, medical technological development, patient expectations, expected day-to-day transition and use of observation beds and patient hotels. When the regional development plans are presented in 2018, we will for the first time have a comprehensive picture of service development and overall capacity needs in Norway. These plans will also provide an important basis for the next national health and health plan presented in 2019. A number of investments have been made in new hospital buildings in large parts of the country and further development is being undertaken to a large extent in order to meet future challenges. In the past, hospitals were built to an even greater extent than they are today based on the need for bed capacity. However, in recent years, there has been strong growth in outpatient activity and day care. New, gentle treatments allow patients to be discharged from hospitals more quickly. In addition, technological developments facilitate the decentralisation of specialist health services and more patient-related treatment. It is good for patients, and it will also affect the future need for bed capacity. The development of St. Olav's hospital can illustrate this. Health Mid-Norway has informed that when planning new St. Olav's hospital, there was great uncertainty and discussion related to the dimensioning of beds. In 2003, the hospital had 889 beds. It was decided to build 770 beds in the new university hospital. In addition, it was arranged for a possible extension with 72 beds. Today, St. Olav's hospital uses 722 beds. It is less than the lowest estimate in the planning process and 184 less than in 2003. The activity at St. Olav's hospital has increased significantly since then – with fewer beds. New hospitals are adapted to developments in medical technology and are designed to rapidly implement new methods of investigation and treatment. Furthermore, it facilitates the utilisation of bed capacity across sections and flexibility in construction, and it is organised for building. In some hospitals, it is possible to re-disposal rooms used for other purposes — for example: offices and patient hotels – for bed rooms, as a spare capacity. Providing greater flexibility in this way in combination with new organisation provides more effective patient logistics, resulting in better use and increased capacity in hospitals. Akershus University Hospital has done a major improvement work on optimising operations in the last year. Activity has increased significantly over the same period due to population growth. At the same time, there are now fewer Corridor Asians in the health business than in many years. By using experienced doctors in the emergency department, acutely ill patients get a more accurate diagnosis at an earlier stage, and treatment starts faster at the right place. This reduces the duration of treatment and thus the length of bedtime and the need for bed places. The new Eastfold Hospital has had a high number of Corridor Asians after the opening, and they have faced challenges at the emergency reception that the hospital is now working to repair. The experience from Eastfold, Akershus and other hospitals shows that it takes time before operations are adapted to new hospital concepts and the benefits can be taken out. Good health care for an increasing population of older people is an important issue for the government. Most people want to live an active and meaningful life in their own homes and in the longest release of hospitalization. That is why we have just launched the reform Life throughout our lives, where activity, food and health are at the centre. Prevention is as is known the best medicine to avoid disease and reduce the need for specialist health services. Furthermore, we are committed to improving the provision of municipal health services, where we will try out primary health teams and follow-up teams. Services that lead to closer follow-up of chronic sick and elderly with a complex need for services will contribute to past efforts and prevent disease development. One of the objectives is to reduce the need for hospitalisation. Many of these patients have long hospital stays, and many have unwanted cleaning. The use of beds in municipal emergency units and intermediate beds is a good offer for these patients. It may also reduce the need for bed capacity in hospitals. The new national health and health plan shall be submitted during 2019. The objective will be to implement the patient’s healthcare in a sustainable way. In order to achieve this, the rate of conversion needs to be increased, which we are doing well. The identification and analysis of unjustified variation in consumption, quality and capacity utilisation facilitates local improvement efforts by the service. Improvement of workflow, logistics and streamlining of patient pathways, e.g. related to studies and trial responses, is good for the patient and could reduce bedtime and needs. We are all engaged in realising a healthcare service that has the necessary capacity. The response to the necessary capacity depends on many factors that need to be seen in the context. We're getting more, and we're getting older. It requires increased capacity. At the same time, technologies and better work processes allow patients to be treated more quickly and to a greater extent outside hospitals. There is not one figure that answers what is the right capacity – either today or in the future. The most important thing is that we have good processes to plan and convert – at all levels, from the Storting to the individual hospital ward. In any case, all patients should feel safe and safe when they need treatment and follow-up, including in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1793	In the national health and hospital plan, the government says that there is expected to be an increased need in the future for both daily and daily treatment. It says that for those over 65 years, a 60 pst is expected. increase in daily and daily treatment by 2030, meaning ‘increased need for bed capacity’. This is the word of the government itself. Now no one has spoken in this debate, and perhaps only the centre party is concerned that new hospitals in Norway are being built too small, and that new hospitals are constantly being minimized because one does not have the economy in the enterprise to build adequately. When I listen to the Council of States, he defends today's practice. He's apparently not worried about what's happened at Ahus, and he's not worried about the experience of Kalnes. And when a draft of St. Olav's hospital was like the big example, it was among the hospitals in Norway that had the biggest problem with overcoating. There were many stories about patients not being well cared for at the time of printing because there were very short lay times. So it's asking you what you're comparing to, and what you're adding that a hospital is a rental star. Kalnes was also used as a good example of it, but then the other side came out. So that you now have an older reform, and that you should try to avoid hospitalization. Of course, everyone is a few in that we're going to try to prevent hospitalization. If one can do it without the installation, it's the best. But we know that when there are so many more older people, and the elderly are major consumers of hospital services, it will, when a cut bed capacity, go out on the elderly, and most of those over 80 years old. We have several new hospital buildings in progress – in Bergen with a new children's and youth centre, OUS here in Oslo, in More and up in the north – and I am concerned that it is not dimensioned according to the professional principles. Yesterday we had a seminar at Stortinget, which was also not well visited. But the big impression from there was that the hospital building, the rental, had a completely different description of reality than the professionals on the floor and how their experiences were with construction. Will the Council of State listen more to the professionals in the future to ensure good hospital construction in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1804	Yes, professionals are involved in all these planning processes, from the preparation of the new development plans, which will also end up in a new national health and hospital plan. This is put in a completely different way now, precisely to provide better planning tools and better ability to predict what will be needed in the future. I have also established Hospital Building HF as a joint-owned health company, just not to build hospitals in Norway as if every time it does it for the first time. One must gain experience, so that when one has positive and negative experiences from Eastfold hospitals, they are taken into account in planning, for example. the new hospital in the West Viken. That's the way we have to work. Corrections are always needed, for example: that we see that this new way of working requires better capacity at the emergency receptions. Interestingly, the representative chooses to draw up the old statements on Corridor Asians at St. Olav's hospital, and it illustrates my point in a very good way: all predictions at that time were very critical that St. Olav's was built too little. We now see that the bed use at St. Olavs is far below the lowest estimate when the hospital was planned. At the same time, St. Olavs is one of the hospitals with the lowest number of corridor Asians. If I don't remember completely wrong, they were down to 0.1 for major periods last year. Ahus is a good example of the same, a hospital that, after its opening, had a continuous look-up — just as Eastfold has today — about a large number of corridor Asians. Despite a significant population growth in the region of Aarhus, they are now in a completely different situation. It shows us very well that building hospitals today is not counting beds, as it might have been 30-40 years ago. Building hospitals today is about implementing completely new technologies, new ways of working, new ways of organizing work. It's hard. It is difficult because it presents completely different challenges linked to the fact that it is not just a construction project, it is an organisational project, and it is a conversion project. We have to recognize that working in new ways, using new technology, organizing new work, is not something done overnight. Although Østfold hospital did put a lot of work into e.g. To give the employees the opportunity to train in advance, we see that it takes time. It took time at Ahus, it took time at St. Olav's hospital, but hopefully, through the new way of working, this conversion time will also be shorter for the new hospitals because to a far greater extent than before one has the opportunity to learn from past experiences, precisely because it's put better in the system now.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1815	No one else has taken part in the debate. Does the interpellant wish to take advantage of the occasion of a three-minute closing installation? That is not what the interpellant wants, and the debate on substance. So 4 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1831	At the request of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1840	I would like to start by thanking the members of the Committee for a good and constructive cooperation. The Committee delivers a unanimous opinion on the Stortinget. In this management report, the National Audit Office has focused on the extent to which data from national health registries are used to achieve health policy objectives. Health records store health information and are a generic term for both statutory health records and medical quality records. The medical health records are established to provide systematic evidence of treatment outcomes. The statutory health records shall perform nationwide tasks such as health surveillance, prevention, preparedness, financing and health care management. The background to the study has been that some health records do not have sufficient data quality and that there is a risk that information from the registers will not be used to achieve their purpose. There are many actors involved in the work of health registers, and there is a risk that work is not well managed and coordinated. The investigation period is the years from 2015 to April 2017. The following are the points made in the report: Many of the registers have data that is little used. Many health records have not sought quality and are not suitable for comparisons over time. Regional health establishments do not meet the national requirements for registers. Norway lacks a health record for several major disease areas, such as Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders, mental disorders and psychosis. The Ministry of Health and Welfare’s use of instruments has not been adapted to health records’ objectives and challenges. It is important that the health records have the quality necessary to capture disease cases and compare trends over time. We need good medical quality records to document treatment outcomes systematically and to know which treatments have the best effect. Such data are an important basis for quality improvements and for research. Regional health establishments are responsible for the establishment, operation and financing of the national quality registers. The establishment of new national medical records depends on the local initiative and the agreement of all regional health establishments. The report states that since 2016 one of the health regions has been opposed to the approval of all applications for new national quality records, with the consequence that no applications have been submitted to the Health Directorate, even if the health care records consider it necessary. Such a practice cannot continue. The Committee agrees with the National Audit Office’s strong recommendation that health businesses should address this issue and establish a system to address the need for national medical quality records across health regions. The Committee also supports better coordination and cooperation between health regions on the national medical quality records, in order to achieve the objectives of the registers. The report refers to major deficiencies or uncertainties in 26 of the 64 examined records that capture all cases of disease. In one third of the registers, own data are not considered to be sufficiently up-to-date and in nearly half of the statutory registers, the data are not considered suitable for comparisons over time. What also emerges is that there are no health records for several major diseases, such as musculoskeletal disorders, mental disorders and drug addiction. These diseases are the main cause of disability and falling out of work. Therefore, health data and good medical quality records are particularly important in these health areas in order to identify the effects of treatment and follow-up. It is also important to be able to make comparisons within their own country, and also across borders, for example. Here in the North, where we live quite equal lives. The Committee asks the State Councils to take seriously the findings of the report and to follow up the recommendations of the National Audit Office. The development of new health records, the improvement of existing and the closure of out-of-date health records must be a priority and a continuous work. In its observations, the Committee calls on the Government to inform the Storting of this work annually in an appropriate manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1875	Medical development, improved patient treatment and an increasingly effective healthcare system are not self-evident and are stated health policy objectives. It requires that we constantly develop new knowledge, and then our health records are important sources of knowledge. Through better practice and research, we improve healthcare, and we want the results of research to contribute to better public health, both in the short and long term. The evaluation carried out by the Norwegian Research Council concludes that several Norwegian research communities are world leaders, but that research communities are not allowed to take advantage of their comparative advantage in research, based on both Norwegian biobanks and not least our health records, both the quality registers and the medical records. There are great opportunities in Norway’s consistent healthcare services through population studies, biobanks and health records. The data in our many health records are mainly used today for health research at universities and colleges and in healthcare itself. If the material is also to be used for the development of better diagnostic tests and new and better medicines, which are also health policy objectives, it is also necessary to cooperate with industry. This has been the initiative of Stortinget: to improve the availability of our health records in this way. The government is also among those who have pointed out that our health records are the new oil. That's what many people have done. The Minister of Health has also said that these are opportunities that should be exploited. Unfortunately, the framework for achieving this today is not very effective, and there is a lot of administrative and regulatory research available to each researcher. We in the Workers' Party believe that we need to make this data available through a national infrastructure and a law that can be manipulated in an ethically sound and efficient way. The National Audit Office points out a good deal of the same thing. Therefore, it is a little discouraging to read the attitude of the Control and Constitutional Committee, which explicitly assesses the objectives of health policy to be achieved to an excessive extent by using these effective and accurate health records. It is noted that some of the registers are of poor quality, and a number of improvements are noted. Here I just want to say as a health politician that I hope the Minister of Health will follow up the ambitions of the Storting in a better way in the future, and that the position of the Control and Constitutional Committee is taken seriously and made the recommended improvements.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1888	First, I want to thank the case spokesman for good cooperation and good work, and one can for the most part join the points she had. Just a few points: one sees that there are challenges with these health regulators – getting a system that works. I think that one of the goals set here is to make sure that there is also an economy in the work being done. And when you now see that a lot of health services use health regulators as a quality indicator and management tool, when the National Audit Office actually points out that there are only a few of the registers that are of good quality, there is a concern that this could lead to misassessment and incorrect development of health work in the future. For this reason, it is so important that a carer can take care of this, and that one is careful to use these records for the management of health services before one is able to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1893	I am referring to the fact that the Ministry of Health and Health has taken a clear grip since 2016 on the strategic management of the health registry field. Furthermore, the Executive Board for eHealth from 2017 has been responsible for monitoring and coordinating the development work through the Health Data Programme. The central tasks of the Health Data Programme are the development and use of common solutions for registers, the establishment of a health analysis platform, harmonisation of codes and terminology and the contribution to the further development of legislation. The Programme shall contribute to better privacy and information security, better availability and increased use of data, better data quality and more efficient registry management. I would like to stress that through the role of national authority and through the national eHealth management system, the Directorate for eHealth has introduced the health registry field of new tools and new competences, which provide stronger development and which contribute to new solutions and better coordination in the future. The health record field is subject to ordinary account management and ownership management. The governance dialogue reflects the new priorities through mission, management parameters and performance requirements. The Directorate for eHealth has prepared a separate governance document for the Health Data Programme. The Directorate has also been entrusted with the task of investigating and proposing a model for national portfolio management of health registry measures. Overall, I believe that these measures contribute to better and more effective management of the health register field. I am concerned that more use of health data can bring great benefits to the individual patient and to the Norwegian healthcare system. In today’s system, access to health records data for quality improvement, health analysis and research can be both resource- and time-consuming. This was the background for the establishment of the Health Data Committee by the Ministry in June 2016. The Committee has proposed legal, organisational and technical measures for easier and safer access to health data. Several of the recommendations are followed up by the Health Data Programme and the development of a health analysis platform. Health regions are responsible for developing national medical quality records in areas where there is a need for knowledge. In 2017 and 2018 I have commissioned them to: develop a plan for the development and establishment of new medical quality records in priority disciplines; ensure a governance model that promotes quality records and contributes to the development of new cross-regional medical quality records; draw up an electronic status report for the national medical quality records with the aim of achieving the coverage and use of the quality records; The Health Directorate decides which medical quality records are to have national status. Each year, the registers shall be assessed in accordance with the criteria laid down and the Directorate shall decide whether the registers continue to qualify for national status. Continuous efforts are being made to improve the quality of national medical quality records. In the strategy for work on medical quality records for 2016-2020, health regions have set concrete efficacy targets related to coverage, the provision of results to data reporting entities, the presentation of results from clinical improvement work and the presentation of patient-reported data. In 2017, the results of 48 national medical quality records were published on quality registers.no. I would also like to use financial incentives to increase the coverage of the quality registers, and I would like to put in place a separate regulation on medical quality records that could have an impact on coverage and quality. As regards the need for better data on major disease areas, I believe it is right to give priority to the development of an infrastructure of health registers that overall will provide a better data base. Firstly, it is about prioritising the development of key key registers, such as municipal patient and user registers, which are established this year, the further development of the Norwegian patient register and the Cause of Death Register, and the development of a directly identifiable pharmaceutical register – based on the current Register of Recipes. Secondly, it is about making it easy and secure to compile data across existing registers and data sources. In this way, we can get better data in large disease areas, such as: Psychiatric disorders and disorders without entering the path of new registers. Further development of the health register field is continuous work. The Government will therefore inform the Government each year about the status and progress of the State through an overall review in the budget proposal of the Ministry of Health and Welfare.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1933	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1949	At the request of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1958	I would like to thank the members of the Committee for their good cooperation in this matter as well. The aim of this study has been to assess whether the authorities facilitate a good referral practice from the stipulators to the specialist healthcare service, so that the resources in this area are used well enough. The referral practices of decision-makers have a significant impact on the activities of hospitals. Norwegian healthcare is organised according to the LEON principle, i.e. The Lavest Effective Care Level Principle, which means that a greater part of the patient’s course should take place in the primary healthcare service. According to the Riksrevision report, much indicates that today’s referral practices are not working optimally and that healthcare resources are being wasted. More than every four regular laymen regularly refer patients to specialist healthcare even if they do not expect any medical benefit from it. At the same time, every third hospital doctor acknowledges that they regularly include patients for investigation even if the referral indicates that the patient should not have been referred to. This violates the LEON principle. The survey covers 650 hospital doctors who have evaluated and prioritised referrals in selected disciplines from 2014 to 2017 and nearly 700 permanent practitioners who have answered each of their questionnaires. The report shows that many decision-makers and hospital doctors do not cooperate well enough on the referrals. There is often a different understanding of what is necessary information in a referral. Reference is made to large variations in the number of references between municipalities and between permanent agencies. It is not the municipality size, the central location of the municipality, or the proportion of older people who can explain the differences. Both the medics and the hospital doctors say they lack tools for simple electronic dialogue with each other. The national audit suggests that the introduction of digital dialogue messages will hopefully improve the quality of referrals. It points to unclear responsibilities between primary and specialised health services, especially in the case of mentally ill and those with drug problems. The Council of State says that he takes this into account with the highest seriousness, and that new models for the interaction and organisation of the services offered to this patient group should be tested through different pilot projects, such as: municipal operation of DPS, district psychiatric centres, testing of follow-up teams, etc. The Committee believes that this is a good thing. People with mental or drug problems often require services from both levels of administration at the same time. That is why good interaction is important here. The National Audit Office considers it important to involve the decision-makers in the development and concreteisation of cooperation agreements between municipalities and health businesses. The report states that the Council of State does not agree with the Riksrevision's claim that the municipality's care-for-responsibilities towards the decision-makers and their referral are unclear. The Council of State refers to the provisions of Section 7 in conjunction with Section 24 which gives the municipalities a clear responsibility to ensure good referral practices by their decision-makers. Although it is so clear in the regulation, the Committee feels that this responsibility needs to be clarified and that the Ministry should support the municipalities in this work, so that the intention of the Storting can be fulfilled. The study shows that the referral guide is not known to the permanent doctors. Only half know the content. The National Audit Service assumes that the quality of referrals to the specialist health service will improve when the supervisor is in place and implemented in the medical records systems of the decision-makers. A unanimous committee expects the Council of State and the Ministry to take the report seriously and to follow up the recommendations of the Riksrevision. It is important that the municipalities understand what is in their care-for-responsibility regulations, and that good follow-up systems are facilitated. Municipalities need to know what measures they can take in their follow-up to their decision-makers. Health enterprises also need to take their share of responsibility and systematise information on the quality of referrals made by the local authorities in order to be able to pass them on to local authorities and the local authorities. It is recommended that good systems be developed for regular feedback to the decision-makers on their own practices and those of others. The National Audit Service recommends that the Ministry should clarify the responsibilities of patients in the field of mental health protection, and in this context examine how the specialist healthcare service can best provide training and guidance, so that the local health service is better able to provide a good offer to this patient group, and ensure that healthcare companies and municipalities clarify what conditions actually give the right to specialist healthcare for this patient group. Finally, I would like to make a small comment on the matter. The National Audit Office's report is about findings and recommendations. The majority of the Committee, the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV, have expressed their views on health policy in a separate comment on the cause of the findings. This has chosen the Committee's minority, the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, not to comment because we believe it does not belong in the consideration of this report.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1986	In general, we can join the case spokesman and the work she has done in this matter, but I just want to have some comments to make that we have picked up some things and pointed out some things. I think it is important, when we deal with national audit reports, that we also dare to look at causes and see how we should improve our work in the future. I notice that the minister thinks there is nothing unclear between the firmaments and hospitals, but it does little to help when it is perceived as such by the municipal health service. I think it is important that a local health service is actually seen both professionally and economically able to deal with a much larger proportion of patients – more of the work, faster printing – and make this interaction work much better. I also think it is important that we be able to lift ourselves up so that a few smaller differences between the residents of the municipalities, and that the fixed and hospitalized people clearly lack a tool to get a better electronic dialogue with the other party. There's been a lot of work to do, and there's been a lot of spending on e-health. It's high time that a person manages to do this, so that one gets an effect that allows one to get more effective use, where both fixed and hospital doctors actually have the power to work together for the benefit of the patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e1995	I thank the National Audit Office for a very interesting report, which, in my opinion, could have been favourably sent to the Health Committee for an opinion, because it also says something about the situation of decision-makers in Norway. I assume that poor referral practices have something to do with work requirements and the strain that the prescribers have received recently. Now we look forward to the evaluation of the fixed situation in the time coming, and maybe we can get back to this in this regard. When I take the floor, it is because I register that doctors and hospital doctors do not cooperate well enough on referrals, which often lack the necessary information. And then I wonder a little bit about the methodology of this report. I record that the medical team that has stood for, earlier at least, 30 pst. of the outpatient referrals to the specialist healthcare service have been withdrawn from this report. I did not find a good answer to that before I read the report and came to page 39, where it says that the contract specialists have been taken out of this report because the statistical basis is not satisfactory to the NPR and Helfo. I think this is strange, because if there is something that has been bothering the doctors lately, it must be the reporting requirement. I think this omission of the contract specialists slightly weakens the value of the report. I hope the Riksrevision remembers that and maybe comes back with an answer to that very thing. I find it a little bit more than funny, really. Now there are several contract specialists, the government has promised us. It's on the Jeleya platform. And there may be reason to take a closer look at this question because the contract specialists often — of course — have a very special relationship with their team members. The decision-makers like to have a one-to-one relationship with the contract specialists in their districts, and it's a much better relationship than turning to a large and often impersonal hospital where you don't know which hospital staff you get. I spoke to a contract specialist yesterday, and he said, "It never happens that I refuse referral from a permanent practitioner. I'd better get a phone.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2010	Only a few additional comments, after first joining in the presentation of what is agreed in the committee by the rapporteur, and to the extent that Nils T. Bjørke's contributions. One of the questions is how clearly care-care-responsibilities are in the community health service. I would like to stress what the rapporteur said that when it is clear that the message has not come forward, it can be said that the message is clear, but what defines whether the message is clear is whether it is understood. And it's obviously not. It is important, because we are talking about some of our best resources in the health sector, that the specialist health service is not abused simply, that there are wrong references – because there are scarce resources, and they need to be used as efficiently as possible. So I'm just going to be allowed to associate some comments with general health policy things, there's been some comments. This is part of the interaction reform, and it has several sides. Now we've looked at the reference to the specialist. But it's also a page that those who have been in the specialist health service have to be printed again, and it's a familiar situation that many municipalities feel that printing earlier than before is also a burden on the first level, i.e. the primary health service. We have seen reports that too many people who have been printed have to be put back in. There is no doubt that the Minister of Health has a challenge, we have a common challenge in getting two levels of government to interact. That, I think, is a challenge. But precisely because we have that challenge and are going to keep the patient in focus, it is important that the Council of State follows up the recommendations of the Riksrevision, which are underlined and have been endorsed by an overall committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2020	The National Audit Office’s study provides important knowledge that can be used in further work on developing and improving health and care services. I share many of the National Audit Office’s assessments and recommendations, and several measures have already been taken. The report of the National Audit Office is useful both for health authorities, for municipal health and care services, including emergency doctors, and for specialist health services. The report shows that we need better data from the care services. Reference practices should be seen in the context of other medical practice. The Ministry of Health and Welfare has now established a municipal register of patients and users, KPR. This will provide better data for planning, governance, financing and evaluation of municipal health and care services. The fixed medical scheme shall be evaluated, as requested by the Stortinget. When we get the overall results of the evaluation, we will complement an information that may affect referral practices. Recommendations have been made in the report that point to what the Ministry of Health and Welfare should do. I will do my job, but in order to follow up all the recommendations, I also depend on the local authorities, the local authorities and the specialist health services being conscious of their responsibilities. It is clear from the decree that the municipality is responsible for good referral practices. Municipalities may set up systems to follow the referral practices of their decision-makers and may set up systems to follow up decision-makers who do not meet the requirements of the regulation. They may also follow up when they depart from professional recommendations without justification. A national guide has been drawn up to refer to the specialist health service with which all permanent practitioners should be familiar. The Directorate for Health must continue the work of making known to the supervisor so that it is used by the prescribers. The Ministry shall also make it clear to health-care establishments that they are responsible for making available their knowledge of the referral practices of decision-makers. It is also working to integrate the referral guide into the firm’s electronic record-keeping systems so that it is more widely used. Through the so-called EPJ promise, the State and the Medical Association contribute to solutions that provide permanent access to specialist advice and guide directly from the electronic patient record system. It is serious when the provision of services to people with mental health problems and/or drug problems is not perceived as good enough. Municipalities are required to provide the necessary health and care services. It assumes that the municipality will ensure that the local authorities are also familiar with the provision of municipal services as well as the provision of specialist health services. Work is in progress on packaging processes in the field of mental health and alcohol, and implementation starts until the autumn. From January 2019, the first patients in mental health and drug treatment will be referred to the package. This will be an important tool for improving the quality, coherence and interaction of service provision. Municipalities and health enterprises are required to conclude cooperation agreements which clearly identify the tasks to be undertaken at which level. Possible ambiguity in the allocation of responsibilities and responsibilities shall be clarified in these agreements. I now want to assess whether there is a need to investigate whether municipalities and health businesses are gradually complying with the leadership of the cooperation agreements. I agree with the Riksrevision that it is appropriate to examine more closely how the service can provide training in a better way and fulfil the mutual obligation of guidance. I want to address this with the health regions and with KS in terms of municipalities. In the next National Health and Sickness Plan, to be submitted in autumn 2019, mental health protection will be one of the main areas. Cooperation between municipalities and specialist health services, including referral practices, will also be considered. I see that the majority of the Control and Constitutional Committee links the challenges of referral practices to the interaction reform, recruitment to the fixed system, digitisation, prioritisation, patient safety, patient health care, free treatment choices and citizens' expectations. It only shows that everything is interrelated and that referral practices can be improved through all actions undertaken in several areas. The KS, the Medical Association and the State have resumed their tripartite cooperation and have ongoing dialogue with the parties on measures to improve referral practices. The National Audit Office’s report is helpful in making changes, and as Minister of Health, I will follow up on the measures in question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2037	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2053	In this article, I do not wish to go into the individual proposals to which the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs has commented, but I would like to start by stressing that the Storting has, through its operation, a picture of instructions to the government, and that the government is obliged to implement its decisions as far as it can. If a single Council of State or Government fails to fulfil its obligations in accordance with its decisions, it may and should have some serious consequences. If this important principle in our system is broken, I think we will destroy what is meant by the Constitution, namely that the power of the people is to be exercised through the elected assemblies. At the same time, it is quite clear that the government has a responsibility to ensure that the Stortinget guide and give the Stortinget the information necessary for the Stortinget to take the most appropriate decisions. It's not like all these decisions come to the table on the day that Stortinget makes a decision. As a rule, decisions are the result of a relatively long process, where the government and the members of the government are also aware of what is going on. It therefore requires actual members of the government to take note of it in the Stortinget, in the Grandningssalalen, if, in their opinion, a decision cannot be implemented, as the Storting has ambitions. Often, political victories are celebrated when proposals are passed in the hall. The degree to which decisions are actually followed up is often less noticeable. Report. St. 7, which we have here, represents an important reminder and provides a good summary of the state of implementation of the individual decisions. The fact that more than one hundred decisions taken in this room in the period 2015–2016 are still not implemented builds up under the need for someone to systematically examine how Stortinget’s call decisions are followed up. Some decisions may not, however, be implemented so easily. For these cases, there is reason to stress that there is only one way to rewrite a decision. It is by the Storting itself making a different decision, or by the Storting itself interpreting how the decision is to be implemented. So if the government doesn't find it possible to implement a decision The Storting has ordered the government to implement, there's actually an obligation on the government to come back to the Storing and try to invite the Storing to make another decision. Let me stress that there is reason to be concerned about the strong increase in the number of instruction decisions that we have received in recent years. It is quite obvious that the large amount with a decision point – a total of 459 in the period 2016–2017 – allows questions to be asked about whether the balance between accumulation and government is actually being rocked. When a government does not have a sufficiently strong parliamentary basis in the Stortinget, it will of course be possible for the Stortinget to gather a number of decisions across the proposals of the government. The danger is that there will be many such ‘request decisions’, or appeal decisions, as I would call it – i.e. decisions taken by the Stortinget and signaled that such a decision would, but not implemented. If there's too many in this category, I'm afraid that in the long run, this could lead to people losing control of politics and our people's regime. In my view, some of the appeal decisions that Stortinget has taken could, with the advantage of our wording as an "exploratory decision", or a decision of distribution, which should be referred to as a fairer measure in my case. There will then be decisions in which the government is asked to settle questions, put them into a larger context and return to the Stortinget either with proposals or with big messages in the understanding of the signals given by Stortinget. Looking forward to looking for a better practice, there is reason to wonder if the Stortinge may also be more aware of the way we take call decisions, what kind of decisions we take, and what direction we give them. In a longer time perspective, we should also discuss the relationship between magnificence and government and make sure that we set the situation straight so that the government actually dares say no when the government thinks it, and not pretend that it is, and then come back and try to erase the quality of the decision that is taken. Report. St. 7 on call and distribution decisions, which we have to deal with today, covers only the periods 2015-2016 and 2016-2017, and thus says nothing about any previous stays. The Committee therefore asked the Prime Minister for an overview of non-implemented decisions from autumn 2013 to spring 2015. The letter of reply from the Prime Minister states that 27 decisions from this period are still not followed up. Finally, let me repeat what I started with: there must be no doubt that once the Storting has taken an appeal decision, the government has to stick to this. If you don't want to, you'll get to Stortinget and ask the Stortinge to make a different decision. Finally, a explanations of vote: The Labour Party cannot vote for the proposal of the Central Party, SV and the Christian People's Party as it is now formulated, where it is proposed that the Stortinget ask the Government to base the proposal for a representative in Document 8:123 S for 2016-2017 on the follow-up to the decision-making process 1035,1036, 1037, 1038, 1039 and 1040. If the proposers change the proposal for the adoption of the decision to be taken, the Workers' Party will be able to support this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2083	Now the rapporteur has just gone through this matter in a good way, so I will be very brief, as the proposer. But I would like to make a comment on the proposal we are promoting together with the Senterpartiet and SV. In his statement, the representative, Mr Rommetvei, who is also the rapporteur on the matter, indicated that the Labour Party could support the proposal if one refers to the vote and not to the proposal. The point of the Christian People's Party is to ensure that the policy adopted by the Stortinget on the occasion of the case, and has its basis in Document 8:123 S for 2016-2017, is implemented in line with the intention. In this context, of course, it is the decision of the Stortinge to deal with, and for us, in this context, it is unproblematic to refer to the position and not to the proposal and precisely to what is the decision of the Stortinge. It is then to clarify the proposal as follows: 'The government is asking the Government to base option 427 S [[2016-2017]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2090	The representative Hans Fredrik Gruvan has taken up the proposal – with the correction made – he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2095	There is no need for a major review of this matter, it has been done in an excellent manner by the case-rapporteur, and I would like to pay tribute to the case-rapporteur for the very thorough handling of the matter. This is a demanding matter. As referred to in the Communication, there are many request decisions, and there are enough things we might need to discuss in terms of dealing with them for the future. It is an important document for us in the Control and Constitutional Committee to ensure that these decisions are followed up. It is also important that the technical committees, which have laid the basis for the policy adopted, be involved in these matters. I think we'll see about that in the future. With the change in the proposal of the Christian People's Party that was now presented, I think it is natural that the Right also supports that proposal. There was, of course, a unanimous committee behind that decision. Then it's also announced.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2102	I would also like to thank the President-in-Office for his good work and for finding a good principle in how to manage the role of the control committee in these matters. The general work of Stortingen is very central to the process of encouraging and distributing. It's an expression of the people's will. There's a big difference whether we have a minority government or a plural government. A multi-territorial government situation is much more reflected by what comes from the government. If we have a minority government, it's just through the appeal decisions and the distribution decisions this is expressed. One can see that developments here are very closely related to the parliamentary situation we actually have. Some decisions become too much water – perhaps already at the time of the introduction, i.e. at the time of the proposal, but also through the committee procedure, so that we end up with a call for decisions that are very unclear and only say that one should work out and evaluate something. So one makes it difficult for the Storting actually to follow it in a reasonable way, and it's of course easy for the government to get it out quite quickly. But clear decisions need to be followed up, and perhaps the biggest concern in the paleness we are dealing with today is that clear decisions are either not being followed up, being tried or understood in another way, or that it is taking a very long time to actually adopt them. If this persists, we are in a serious parliamentary situation at the next crossroads. It's totally unacceptable. This cannot continue over time – that we have a situation in which the Storting is perceived as being considerate. We have, quite simply, a basic law and clear rules in Stortingen's Rules of Procedure against the view of Stortinget as. And finally, I'm going to say that we have a lot of examples of different types of interpretation here. One example is that when the Stortinget asked the government to introduce annual reporting requirements in child protection, it was understood by the government that one should assess whether this should be legalised in one way or another. That's not what the Stortinget asked them to do, the Stortinget asked that annual reports on child protection should be introduced. We have a lot of different types of examples. The matter we are dealing with today is, of course, out of Rule 14 of the Rules of Procedure. 8 b. This is the matter of whether or not a call and exit decision should be accepted. It is not in the budget, in the revised national budget or elsewhere. There are, of course, discussions about the follow-up to the call-up decision, but this is a matter for receipt. In addition, I don't think we're going to have a reduction in the call and distribution decisions. It is only to look at the parliamentary situation, which probably will not change significantly during the coming year, and that situation will remain. Then I think it's important that at the next crossroads we look at the totality of this and see if the government actually delivers largely from the orders that come from Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2119	I would like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur for a good cooperation and a thorough job. I particularly appreciate the reflections the rapporteur had on the principle of our democratic function, which I think is very important that we take over. It's worth spending a little bit of time on, whether we're in position or opposition. Secondly, I would like to give an explanation of vote. The Progress Party also supports the proposal as it now exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2126	Request and investigation decisions are an option The Stortinget has to oblige the government to follow up some cases and investigations. The number of requests decisions has increased significantly in recent years, and in the field of the Ministry of Justice and Defence there are many requests decisions. Security and legal certainty for citizens and countries is a fundamental concern for me and my ministry to take care of. There are also fundamental prerequisites for a democratic rule of law. I therefore have a great understanding that Stortinget is interested in the broad field of business that includes today's field of justice and preparedness, and I respect the fact that the Stortinget obliges the government to follow up matters and investigations in the areas of the Stortingen are of particular importance. There are several request decisions that are not sufficiently supported or followed up, and I see that some of the criticisms addressed to the ministry are that there is too much time to follow up some request decisions. Of course, it is important that the various request decisions are followed up as quickly as possible and that the Storting get good feedback on the follow-up as soon as possible. We prioritise this work in the department and work to follow up decisions quickly. However, the number of request decisions has increased significantly, and this has administrative implications for the ministry. We need to understand that some request decisions may be complicated to follow up, and in order to meet qualitative requirements for content and process, individual cases will require the ministry to work on matters over time. I do not want to draw up any request decisions here, but I see that it remains to be confirmed, among other things. issues relating to the follow-up to police reform, the follow-up to the violence field and some issues in the foreign field. In the government's proposal for the 2019 government budget, I would like to return to the follow-up to new request decisions and individual request decisions that have not been sufficiently followed up. It is important for me to stress the decision of the Storting to be followed up and reported back to the Storting as quickly as possible in an appropriate manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2137	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2153	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines with up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up for the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2162	The main objective of the copyright law is to ensure that rightholders receive income, that creative and performing artists are more able to live off their business and that investments in creative content are facilitated. The interests of rightholders shall be balanced against the interests of users and society in having access to copyright. So the goal has been to arrive at a balanced work of the mind. Finally, the day is here! This is a matter that the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture has inherited from the Committee in the previous period. The previous committee chose not to deal with this matter, and one of the reasons for it was all the recordings that came, not least through the hearings. The previous committee decided to postpone the examination of this matter, and therefore this family and cultural committee has been the one who has tried to solve this problem ashore. We have carried out new consultations in this context, and almost as many hearing bodies have chosen to participate now. It turned out quickly that the same positions as the last time, also now became applicable – with quite steep fronts, I would say. I very much want to thank the Committee for the work it has done, thank you for choosing to go into this work in order to find out as much agreement as possible. And when you look at the final result, the copyright law now bears the mark of being cross-political in the sense that there are very few things here that we really disagree about. I would like to say a little about the different paragraphs that were at least mentioned in the hearings. I'll start with Section 67. This paragraph provides that authors shall not be regarded as having transferred a more extensive right than that clearly stated in the contract, which is referred to as the specialty principle. A law-making of the specialty principle implies a clarification intended to strengthen the position of creative and performing artists in unclear contractual relationships. This is a paragraph with which the Committee fully agrees when it comes to references and comments. Then we have Section 69, which was also brought forward in the hearing, right to reasonable remuneration. More input was received, including: a statement that there may be a need to establish a dispute resolution. I am pleased that a Joint Committee requests the Government to investigate a dispute resolution mechanism for setting reasonable remuneration and to return to the Storting on a case-by-case basis. This was an important input from several hearing bodies, to which the Committee has listened, and so it is an overall committee that asks the government to do so. So to § 71: That's the paragraph it's been the most noise around. Although the Ministry only intended to codify the applicable law and that the legal status was not changed, several of the hearing bodies were negative. Among other things, the authors feared that the negotiating position was weakened, and that one could be pressured to transfer rights to an extent that was not desirable. After an overall assessment, the Committee has then chosen not to promote the proposal for Section 71 of the Proposition, but we would like to be clear from the Committee's point of view that the law in force should not be interpreted as amended in the light of the fact that the proposal from the Proposition to Section 71 is withdrawn. Then I would like to say a little about Section 43, the so-called class room rule, which after much discussion is now included in the law as originally proposed. At the same time, Stortinget will take two different request decisions relating to this paragraph, one proposed by a Joint Committee and one of the opposition parties. Paragraph 43 implies that not only traditional transmission but also Internet transmission is defined to be within the private area when it occurs in the class. The proposers believe that the consequences of this non-reimbursable flow are deficiently investigated, and we welcome the government's review of both economic and other issues. We are concerned that the rightholders will in the long term lose revenue because of a change in technology, and ask the government to investigate and also consider what changes to Section 43 are necessary in order to establish a licensing system. [[The President clubs.]] I'm going to ask for the word again to elaborate on more things.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2183	That goes, but perhaps the representative should make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2188	Yes, I'm taking up the proposal we're on.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2193	Then the representative Geir Jørgen Bekkewold mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2198	The right to be paid for their work has been central to my party for all time. Whether it's craftsmanship or it's copyright, you should actually be able to live from your work. It is therefore gratifying that there is a broad consensus – as the rapporteur explained – that we should have a law to ensure this, even in a new technological age. But in addition, of course, the law has to facilitate a good and functioning industry, precisely to provide that income. It's a huge technical development, and we've had a lot of laps with this copyright law. I've been delighted to stand for something of it myself, in the Culture Committee earlier and as Minister of Culture. There is, of course, no broad consensus on these things internationally. We know that someone thinks that the benefits of being able to share things completely free of charge should be taken advantage of, at the expense of copyrights. The Pirate Party has been involved in this, the party of the Minister of Culture has been involved in this, but now we have a very broad consensus. Creating and sharing in this technological age is not exactly the same as in the political slogan of creating and sharing – we have to make sure that it is also shared with economic consideration, so that there are still some things to share. The rapporteur explained well to the balance sheet that we have found, and the reason for making some changes in the government's position. We do not have to repeat that, we join the case rapporteur. There are some individual elements that still have to be commented on. One is Section 21, where it opens up the possibility for different private actors to take over the collective arrangement as for example: Gramo has had within the music area. A majority of the Committee expresses concerns about this opening. We're going to follow that development closely. We believe that these collective arrangements have served the rightholders well. It has been unbureaucratic, it has made the money go to those who have copyright, and we are ready to make changes if it turns out that the opening that is now taking place is damaging these objectives that we have described. Another point in the same paragraph is a problem that has arisen in the last few days, after the Committee gave its opinion, and that concerns the issue of sound recording included in films. In the original government text, the consultation note, it was assumed that it was cleared when the music was transferred to the film. Now it is stated that these arrangements under Section 21 do not apply to ‘if the otherwise liable use of the sound recording has already been cleared upon transfer to the film’. This literally means that you have to map all of the rights that have been transferred to the film. In that case, it will be a completely inconvenient work, so it is very important that the Minister of Culture in the course of the debate clarify what is really meant by the wording that is here. Finally, we also have a split setting for this with the classroom scheme, the class room rule. We now see that instead of having a sample production in a classroom, it is usually directly digital from the web through streaming and other schemes – a very good and broad use of different mental works in teaching. It's something that an overall committee seems to be positive. It gives a good and varied teaching. But once again, we have to make sure that those who have the copyright are paid. That's why we ask the government to look at how streaming can also come under the collective arrangements, and we ask the government to come back with this. It is fully possible to do this in a very unbureaucratic way that ensures that teachers in classrooms can still use a variety of different kinds of mental works in teaching and at the same time ensure that, through the collective arrangements that we know well from the analogue world, those who have created what is being used are paid. In the end, we say that where there is doubt, this doubt is going to benefit the author, because it has to be clear what is being passed on. I think there's a good balance between maybe strong commercial interests on the manufacturer's side and artists who may not have the legal competence. But it has to be at the same time that this is a two-party collaboration. We have found in the setting that exists a good balance for both sides of the world's ability to create spiritism even in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2215	Today, we are going to adopt a new copyright law, and a lot has been said about this bill. There have been strong opinions from artists, authors and producers alike. The law is one of the most important cultural policy instruments we have, and we, as big-scale representatives and committee members, have a great deal of understanding of the commitment we have seen from all sides of cultural life. The assessments have been made after the hearing with them, and I am grateful for the big event we had at the hearing we had in Stortinget. It is important that those who work in the creation of copyrights or authors should understand the law. It was therefore very important to have a new and up-to-date law on copyright. Those who create a work of art shall be protected against abuse and shall be guaranteed fair remuneration. We in the Right are engaged in the protection of property, and copyright is property of copyright, and it shall be subject to legal protection and protection against interference in the same way as any other property. A primary objective of the copyright law is to ensure the income of rightholders. The law is a central instrument for the government's goal of enabling creative and performing artists to live more fully on their business, and the Stortinget Law establishes with this law the right to equitable remuneration for artists. We believe it is an important principle that everyone who does a job should be paid for the job they do, and this also applies to artists. Studies have shown that there has been a clear negative trend in artists’ revenues in recent years and that in practice there have been limited possibilities for artists to be paid a reasonable remuneration for the sale of copyright to copyright works. We hope that the consequence of the law is that performers will be better able to live by their art. It is clearly costly to settle consideration issues using the ordinary legal system. The Committee has therefore called for artists to have a real alternative, and therefore the Committee also proposes that the government establish a dispute resolution system to deal with claims for a fair remuneration. In the development of the copyright law, the focus has also been on new challenges and issues facing the industry. Rightholders experience that major global actors are excluded from legislation requiring them to clarify the rights to content they provide. This means that there is an enormous gap in value, where large global players make a huge contribution to the use of undeclared copyright. The proposal for a new EU Copyright Directive proposes to impose on network services that store and provide access to large quantities of user-loaded works to cooperate with rightholders in order to prevent unauthorised use. We believe that this is a major step towards rebalancing this crooked balance, and we believe that Norway should take up the fight with the major global companies, together with the EU and Europe, and that we are united in this to prevent the illegal use of copyright. That is why we want to wait until the EU has concluded in its work on the new copyright directive. At the hearing of the Committee, the Committee on Family Affairs and Cultural Affairs made clear that several actors did not wish to legislate on the principle of the transition of copyright to working conditions. We received several signals from performers suggesting that they themselves wanted to negotiate which rights were to be given in employment. We understood that in the committee, and therefore we chose to subtract § 71 from the bill. I do not understand the allegations that a statutory act would result in a total transfer of copyright to the employer, that it was a so-called purchase paragraph. I didn't see this as the intention of the government in handing over the proposition. Rather, such an understanding should be seen as a misinterpretation of the content of the bill based on a lack of trust between workers and employers in the Norwegian cultural sector. This is in practice not a perspective shared by my party, which went out early and suggested that the paragraph be subtracted from the bill. We have done that in our treatment and made it clear in our remarks, and then we also had a party, not a protest, about the conclusion of the bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2236	First of all, it is appropriate to thank the rapporteur for a solid work and the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture for a good cooperation on this position. The Breathwork Act is about so much. It's about radio, TV, music, books, data, mobile phones, pictures, etc. It's about the fact that we have to deal with conventions and agreements made all the way back to the 1880s. The Law of the Spiritual Work shall deal with art, business, politics, law and consumers, and then it is important to balance the interests — the interests of rightholders, contracting entities and consumers. In reality, the copyright law is the foundation of an increasingly large part of the modern economy. Then it is important that it facilitates a balanced and good market place for copyright, for the benefit of all actors and society for the rest. No one is served with a copyright that prevents good use and good finances. It is assumed that the copyright law is our most important cultural law and a pillar of cultural policy. I believe that creating new ideas should be protected. That's how the individual gets the motivation to create new cultural expressions. We can assume that technological developments have weakened the position of rightholders. Today, art and cultural products can be divided into much larger and simpler forms than they could before. My friends and I copied music on cassettes. Today it is much harder for a musician to know when and how the music is used. The changes in the law that we adopt today take into account what is happening in society around us. Because of digitisation, it is now easy for most of us to use and share content protected by copyright. It has become easier for rightholders to communicate their copyrights. That at the same time it has become more difficult to control how they are used and disseminated, we now take into account. The Law of the Breathing Works Act has become a law that affects more and more people – and not just professionals. Therefore, changes in the law have also been made so that the law is more easily accessible to those who are going to use it. Creators and performers are often weak today when selling what they have created. When cultural and media consumption is moved to digital platforms, established business models are changed. We also know that more work is being done in the EU to modernise copyright. After all, we do not have problems in Norway other than in other countries. The same technological and business changes come in all countries. It is therefore appropriate to await some of the EU conclusions. I believe that today's suspension respects the rights of creators and performers. It also ensures the need for clarification by manufacturers and the necessary economic predictability. And not least, consumers become winners when the copyright market works well. One of the many topics discussed in this revision of the law is the so-called class room rule, § 43. This is about making a mule in the classroom versus making copies. There is a long tradition of such a classroom rule even in our neighbouring countries. Therefore, a change in this area will now turn Norway into another country. Examples require a contract license — whether they are stencils, which were distributed in previous times, photocopies or other — while not performing. We all see that streaming from the Internet provides a larger and easier way to perform work in the classroom. Many are concerned that the development erodes the income of rightholders. Even I think that the magnitude is probably not going to grow to such an extent that it will be a real problem. Fortunately, there is work on a new EU directive, which will also deal with the use of intellectual property in education. It would be natural to look at the classroom rule and adjust it, if necessary, when we know more about how EU rules change. For a party based on liberalism, it is good to see that the copyright law is now being modernised, so that it benefits all parties in society. It is good to see that it will continue to form the foundation of the important market place on which copyright is offered.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2264	Today, the Storting is to adopt a new copyright replacing the 1961 Act, a modern law adapted to the rest of the world. digital development. The main rules and principle on which the current law is based have been passed. The aim of both current and new laws is to ensure the rightholder's income and that one should be able to live on his business. This is a law that concerns many — of course the legal entities, the purchasers and not least the users and the social interests. Of course, the exposure has been large enough. For the Center Party, it has been important to get a broad deal. That's one more thing. This also means that the law is overdue, but of course with the adjustments that need to be made, especially in relation to digital development. It has also been important for the Central Party to get a balanced law, which it has been. One shall ensure revenue for performers, authors, etc. At the same time, this must be balanced in such a way as not to lead to undue risks for media houses, theaters, production companies and publishers who are to invest in setups and projects, in addition to a balance in relation to social interests. The centre party and a number of members of the committee are critical that Section 21 of the Act makes it possible to enter into separate agreements on remuneration and thus depreciate themselves, for example. The Gramo compensation. The current system has been simple, collective and little bureaucratic. One is concerned that this will lead to parallel collection, less revenue for musicians and producers, and that it will be more resource-intensive to manage. The right to quote, § 29, is referred to by a joint committee as one of the most central features of the law. It is very important to our democracy that the media and journalism can carry out their social mission. For the Central Party, it is important that the legal text of Section 29 is not interpreted too strictly in relation to the possibility for the media to give visual works, and that one also here is based on a health assessment, as in other works. Paragraph 43, the so-called category room rule, has also been one of the most discussed paragraphs. The principle of the free use of works in teaching activities is fundamental. However, several legal organisations have expressed concern about future loss of income by the termination of contract licences by school owners. The centre party is therefore pleased that one in the proposal for Decision B I in the configuration states that one can review this if it appears that the use according to the specifications damages the legal entities in an unreasonable way. The centre party is also satisfied that there are multiple numbers to figure out how works transferred in the classroom, including Internet streaming, can be equated with so-called sample production in the classroom and thus become chargeable. In transferring the copyright § 67, the word «clear» has caused concern to the acquirers. Citation: ‘In the case of a transfer of copyright, the author shall not be deemed to have transferred a more extensive right than the contract clearly states.’;» The centre party would strongly stress that both parties have the same responsibility for reaching a clear agreement. Spiritual works created in working conditions and §71 of the bill is also a theme with great commitment and many listening recordings. The Ministry also wanted to legislate the illegal right in the area of origin. After an overall assessment, a joint committee has chosen not to present the proposal for § 71 in the proposition. The central part will state at the same time that the current right cannot be interpreted as modified, even if §71 is not claimed. In addition to what is already in place, the centre party will signal subsidiary support for the proposal for Decision B III. The proposal is less far-reaching than proposal No. 2 – the minority proposal from the Centre Party and SV, where one wants a case for the Stortinget – but at least it ensures a continuous assessment by the government. Finally, I hope that the new law will help to create, buy, produce and use even more copyrights. Art and culture are important to the Center Party. I take up the proposal from the Center Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2297	The representative of Olav Urbø has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2303	Today we are dealing with a very important law in this room. The Breathwork Act is there to protect something very special. The most important function of the law is to give exclusive rights to the Creator of the Spirit, because it is something of the Spirit that is inextricably linked to the Creator. It's different than other goods and things. But it's not just because of the peculiarity of copyright that this law is so important. It is also important because it is a very concrete reality for those who create and practice Norwegian art and cultural life. The Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Protection of Artists and Cultural Workers Spiritual works are to be made available to people, so you can experience a rich art and cultural life. But if we're to experience the music, the movies, the books and the pictures in the future, the artists have to get really paid when we use what they create. If not, it will not be possible to continue to create the rich cultural pressure that makes sense to us in everyday life. In recent decades this issue has become even more crucial, because in the face of new technologies, new platforms that give us new ways of exploiting a work of art, and not least in the face of the new global giants such as Google and Facebook, the artists' exclusive rights to their own works of spirit and the artists' share of the great values created have been fundamentally challenged. That is why SV, artists’ organisations and several years have been so concerned about putting in place a technology-neutral copyright that meets the future and ensures that artists’ rights are respected. Because we don't, there will be significantly less Norwegian-produced content, Norwegian art and culture. The interests of those who create Norwegian art and culture, and of us who enjoy it, coincide. We all have the same interest in taking care of our culture. Today we adopt a law that takes us there. That is why I would like to thank the Committee and the rapporteur, in particular, for very good and, not least, extensive cooperation. I would also, not least, like to thank the artists' organisations for their excellent efforts. We had never gotten this done without their efforts. SV has high ambitions for this law. It will face a challenging future. That's why we're pointing out some points where we'd like to go further to create a copyright for the future. This is particularly true of the so-called Gramo paragraph, which the government will change, thereby weakening the collective management of rights, and the provision that artists will not be allowed to take part in the revenue from new ways of exploiting works by contract date. SV has fought to preserve the collective management of rights and to ensure that, in some cases, even after the date of the agreement, developments are emphasised when reasonable remuneration is determined. It's obvious in the setting today, and we're going to keep fighting for it in the future. But basically, I'm very happy with what we're adopting today. The overall result has been very good after the Committee's discussion. I am particularly pleased that we do not adopt § 71, on the transfer of copyright in terms of employer and contracting authority relations. I am also very pleased that a joint committee is in favour of asking the government to investigate a dispute resolution mechanism in determining fair remuneration. Taking such cases to the court is both extremely expensive and extremely complicated, which weakens the protection of copyright. Therefore, a simple dispute resolution is so important. So I'm glad that the committee is addressing the value gap issue, that big actors like YouTube and Google are making billions through advertising revenue when they make copyright available, without the creators getting anything for it. But one of the areas in which we unfortunately did not get the whole committee together is the class room rule, as mentioned earlier from the pulpit. Such a provision is not for the future when more and more content is passed through streaming in the classrooms. SV believes that copyright should be made available to the students, but it is important that the authorities pay for this use through the simple and unbureaucratic contractual agency that already exists. I would like the government parties to take part in a clearer order on that, but at least we have the opposition to that. Therefore, SV is going to follow closely how the government follows up the majority decision on both that and other things, and do everything we can to get this matter fully to the goal, so we can have a copyright for the future that makes it possible to create Norwegian culture in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2328	Today, we are to adopt a new and better basis for a free, strong and vibrant cultural life, namely the copyright law. There has been a long process for a legislative proposal that was inherited from the previous committee, which did not come into the port at the time. This round has also been intense with negotiations for the last minute, but I'm glad that we can today stand together on most things and show that the Storting jointly takes the artists and this field seriously. Since the adoption of the copyright law in 1961, it has been patched up continuously, but never received the complete review it deserves – until now. The patching and adjustment has meant that the law has become much more complex and difficult to deal with than what has been desirable and necessary. Left wants artists to be artists. They're going to spend their time creating, not watching the paragraphs. You don't have to hire your own lawyer to understand what your rights are. Once non-statutory rules have developed over a long period of time, it is necessary to have them legally enforced, precisely to make the law available to those who are going to use it. Now we've got a modern and simplified law that fits the time we live in, that's easier to understand. For the Left Heirs on the artists. Many artists are self-employed. It often means long working days, few employees and high financial risk. But they're very important. Artists are the back margin of freedom of speech, whether they express themselves through images, lyrics, dance, music or drama. Without art, creativity and creativity, we're a dead society. Democracy needs free art to reflect, challenge and promise – to form. For many of the self-employed artists, or for those working in small businesses, predictability is crucial. With this great update of the copyright law, we take better care of them than we did in the past. A main objective of the work has been to ensure artists' rights and revenues. With an up-to-date work of mind, we ensure that they can live by what they create. For the individual singer, writer or any other artist enterprise, this will make a difference. It's easier to understand what rights you have and what rules you have to deal with. The Breathwork Act is one of the most important laws in the field of culture, and the aim is that it should last over time. By not promoting the proposition for § 71, we have listened to the artists and taken their concerns seriously. At the same time, we now legislate that the artist does not transfer more extensive rights than the contract clearly states, and investigates a separate dispute resolution system for cases where it is uncertain whether the remuneration is reasonable. One of the most important things for artists has been to ensure that you get paid when works are purchased and used. The artists who believe they have not received sufficient remuneration for their work will have a place to raise their case by means of dispute resolution. In the past, many people experienced that it was so expensive to take these kinds of disputes to the courts that they would rather be. A dispute settlement mechanism provides lower thresholds than the courts because it does not involve such a high financial risk. Hopefully this will mean that more artists dare to protest if they think they have been paid too little. Finally, I will raise the privacy issue. The law continues a number of paragraphs, from § 86 and beyond, which several hearing bodies have pointed out are challenging in terms of both privacy and the Internet as a free speech channel. There is no secret that for the Left, there should have been an even clearer frame of these paragraphs, an even clearer protection of both privacy and the free internet. At the same time, we in the Left are pleased that an overall committee in the comments addresses the concerns related to the processing of personal data and measures addressed to the website. There shall be strict conditions for the provision of subscription information and the Committee shall refer to an external limit on the scope of the intervention addressed to the website. At the same time, we know today that there are different processes that will affect these paragraphs, so that's probably not the last time we're discussing this in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2351	Firstly, I would like to express my satisfaction at the fact that there is an overall committee that has worked out a consensus on this matter. It was promoted before I joined the Council of State, and I'm glad that it's a very common big deal that has managed to work together this proposal. There have been a number of changes in the copyright law since it was adopted in 1961, but the changes have been made only by some parts, and the law has finally emerged as both quite fragmented, very difficult to understand and very dependent on various technologies that have made it difficult to balance rights. Now we have had a proper review that makes it easier to decide copyright issues based on different technologies, new markets and new business models, but which nevertheless makes it possible for a person to adhere to the important principles on which the copyright law is based. The law is a legal support in the administration of copyright in Norway. It aims to stimulate production — the desire for more people to produce art and culture — but it also aims to balance different interests in a society. One shall have the possibility to create a market that works both to develop and to disseminate art and culture. There are no changes to the basic principles contained in the original copyright law. It has always been the goal of lifting the weakest party, and the weakest party is most often the copyright producer – the creators of art and culture, and who often have the characteristic that they are better in the creation process than in the business model around them. We also have to remember that a lot of art and culture are our common property. From this pulpit, there are often quoted gullies from others. Sentences are often used, such as: are found in nuclear respirators known to Norway. Citing and using copyrights in current matters tells us a little bit that the copyrights also become our common property. We have a fantastic good system in the Nordic region linked to the agreement license. I believe that the system of contract licences and standard agreements is a good starting point for developing further good business models for the dissemination of copyright. I noticed that § 71 has been problematic. It has also been through the hearing. The fact that the committee has decided not to include a bit of this, I think it is completely unproblematic. This means that the current legal order and case law will continue to be used. We tried to make it a paragraph based on the legal order we've had. The Committee did not wish to be included. I think that's all right. Then we assume that it is the legal principle of the day that applies. I notice that there are many requests to follow up further. My message to the Committee is that we should follow up all the request decisions that lie here. I think it is right to admit that the copyright law is not a product that is finished once and for all. We must be involved in technological development, and we must also be involved in the development of the use of copyright in different areas of society. I believe that the Storting in its committee position has shown that in those areas where we see that there are going to be challenges in the future. We would like to follow it on and also follow the development of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2370	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2375	I am pleased that today's Minister of Culture has gone a long way from the debate we had on the same topic in 2009, and I am happy – like her – that there is now unanimity on the main principles of the copyright law. I have a specific question related to a problem that the musicians have raised. This applies to Section 114, which deals with who it is that should have paid as a remunerator, and who should not have it. We have a system where American music in Norway does not have rights to pay, but where the money instead goes to fund. But the limit is how many have participated in a music work from an EEA country, where we have a different practice from our neighbouring countries, which provides less money in the fund pool than in neighbouring countries. We have a unanimous attitude from the committee that addresses this problem and asks the government to look at it, and I want the Minister of Culture's confirmation that the ministry will do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2382	The representative Giske opens with a comment that it is too tempting to point back. The last copyright law was up for discussion, it wasn't rights and copyright that were for debate, but it was a belief that copyright and the dissemination of copyright had business models that made the main fight copy barriers, the fight against the Pirate Bay, and the fight against the ways of communicating that existed. That position I've heard that in fact the majority here have also taken on board, that the business models that need to be built must also be based on contract licenses, and that it is not the fight against the Pirate Bay that ensures the best intellectual property. Good business models ensure the best. With regard to the points made here, we will follow up on all the comments made by the Committee. [[President clubs]] We're also going to follow up on what was pointed out there. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2389	There's no time for speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2394	I'm sorry, President. There was a little bit to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2399	I'm going to give the Minister of Culture a chance to: Will she ensure that the practice of remuneration internationally, especially against American music, linked to perhaps one EEA participant, will be consistent with what our neighbouring country has, so that we get money in the fund fund fund fund fund and thus ensure the most possible return to Norwegian culture? The second question that has emerged is related to a problem around Section 21, where this sound recording determination was previously formulated so that it was assumed that this was resolved when the film was made. Now you can interpret the paragraph that you have to figure out, for each and every little audio file in a movie, who has clear rights and not – which will lead to a huge bureaucracy. Gramo and IFPI are very busy with this. Will the Minister of Culture also ensure that this is implemented in a good and unbureaucratic way?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2406	We're going to try to make sure that we get the most of that money into Norwegian practitioners too, but the international code is very EU driven. Now big processes are happening in the EU, and we're going to wait for them. We expect that in a year there will be great clarifications, and then we will also look at how we will implement it in the Norwegian legislation. In the case of audio films, it was very unclear in the previous law, so unclear that you had a big round before making this foundation, where you tried to find a clarification that everyone wanted. A thorough consultation and a number of special meetings were held with the various interests and ended with the solution now available. I understand that not everyone is satisfied with the solution set out in the law, and therefore we will continue to assess what changes you can make to have this clarified as much as possible. But our wish with the law that was presented was to find a clarification of what was very unclear in the previous law, in the case of audio films.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2414	I would like to start by thanking the Council of State for its part in this cooperation. I very much appreciate that we have come up with many good proposals for decisions here today. I want to ask the Council of State about one thing, and that's what I see as a lack of willingness to go ahead in terms of Norwegian artists and artists' great losses in value when the content they create is used, for example. YouTube, they don't get paid. The EU is currently doing a job, to which reference has been made, to regulate this, and the message to Norwegian people elected by those working with this international, is that we need to go ahead as a leading media market and, through the law, to ensure that websites that store and make available copyright have to make agreements to clear up and pay the authors for the use, so that creators can take part in the huge digital revenues. But the government won't go ahead. Rather, we should go behind the EU, obviously, and it is decided today that we should keep up with developments. Why won't the Council of State go ahead?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2421	First, I want to say thank you back for the cooperation with the committee, and I hope that this has given us such good access to the good, competent professionals we have in the department, has also contributed to the success of the process. Then I have to say that I am a little surprised that it is the SV and the Central Party that do not understand that these agreements have to be made internationally. It is not possible for Norway to regulate YouTube. It's not a server that's in Norway. It's not a jurisdiction we can try out. The only SV and the Central Party must dream about is Norwegian EU membership, which gives them the opportunity to influence this directly. I think it is very special that it is the Center Party and the SV who believe that we should be able to make such a type of legislation from Norway. We have an EEA agreement that allows us to connect to the ongoing European processes. But a dream that Norway should regulate servers in other countries – that is not possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2428	On the contrary, we are clearly informed by those who are working on this important issue internationally that Norway is a leading media market in terms of how we can lead this issue – but it is okay. I thought I'd ask another question, and it's about the classroom determination. Everyone agrees with the principle that copyright works that others have created should be largely cleared by agreement and paid for. The exception for that principle is the private sphere, where people are to share copyrights with each other without having to conclude agreements about it. In this law, the government proposes to consider the classroom as a private sphere, so that the authorities do not have to clear and pay for the transfer and performance of copyright in classrooms. SV believes that we should make art and culture available to all students, but we also believe that those who create the art and culture must be paid for it, so that they can continue to create the good content. Why does the Council of State feel that the authorities should not use the effective agreement we already have through Norwaco? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2439	The President must remember that speaking time must be kept.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2444	Yeah, but the president has to realize that it's a very nice topic we're discussing. What is in the law and in our proposal now is what is in force today. [[Laughter]] Today, we have agreements that relate to the production of new versions of copyright. We've made a copinor deal for the times you, for example. copies a novel and distributes it to the class. Now we also have a Norwaco agreement. They have developed new types of licences. When I checked it before we got here, I found that they have now made 230 agreements. This is now developing positively with the municipalities. It has also been said that there are fewer links to the Copino Agreement. There's nothing to it. We are in the process of finding good agreements for this. But the Storting has asked the government to follow closely the developments in the two agreements, and we will do so in the future. It'll be important, because I think it's important to have a contract work. But what's now applies only to what is.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2453	It is probably a little naive to believe, perhaps, that these Internet restrictions can also be controlled in the EU. I think the servers have a wider range than that. I want to go back to the questions I raised, because I wonder if the first answer was a misunderstanding. As far as Section 21 is concerned, it is not the question of new EU regulation that we are waiting for, we wonder if the Council of State will contribute to the practice in Norway of the legislation that exists today, in the same way as our neighbouring countries, so that we do not pay out too much compensation to people we do not have the obligation to do so, but instead ensure that the money goes to funds in Norway. So it's a practice of the law. In the case of Section 114, it does not help to make it less unclear if it becomes poorly clear. And that's where Gramo and IFPI are very concerned that you now have to go through all the rights transfers in movies and get a lot of bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2462	I have noticed that when this matter was dealt with, they tried to clarify the applicable law in the law, and we have done so in a number of areas – the current law that exists today. Then the committee chooses to draw out some paragraphs. I don't think it's going to lead to a clearer law. I don't think it's going to lead to clearer relationships for rightholders. What we've been trying to do here is regulate how it's been practiced in the current right now, and I don't think creating more ambiguity around it is a proper strategy. We're always going to try to make sure that Norwegian rightholders are equal, if not even stronger rights than other practitioners. I said that in the previous answer that we want to follow up on.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2469	I almost have to ask for a clear answer, because here the committee majority is actually very clear. We want this to be practiced in a way that gives as much money as possible. The setting has been in place for quite a long time, I am absolutely sure the government has read it. It's strange if they haven't put a note in their hands to the council saying if she wants to make sure that our practice is in line with our neighboring country. So this is true if a person in the EEA has the right to a work produced in the United States. If you have to pay full remuneration to the manufacturer, or you have to follow the practice that has taken place, for example. Sweden and Denmark, where does the money go to the fund? It's a very clear yes or no question, and if the answer is no, I think the majority at some point must come back and instruct the Council of State. We don't want to do that much. In the case of audio recordings, it is enough for me to hear the Council of State say that she will listen to Gramo and IFPI and provide an unbureaucratic solution to the issue that has arisen.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2476	I don't know how to say it in another way: the government is going to follow up the remarks that are. We're going to make sure Norwegian rightholders have their things. If it sounds like a no and leads to an instruction, I think we might have a little bit different ears on. We're going to follow up the majority comments that lie here, we're going to follow up the request decisions, and we're going to fight for Norwegian practitioners.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2483	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2490	As the chairman of the committee, I believe that the president also thinks this debate is interesting, and perhaps she is glad that we have come so far that we can decide the matter and finish it, because we have been doing it for a while. I want to say something about what the representative Trond Giske is raising, and it is related to the fifth paragraph of Section 21. It was claimed that if adopted in the current wording, it will put its legs under the sync market in Norway, in which Norway has spent many years growing up. Music Norway has even had its own broadcast in the United States to build this up, and city: Alarm has had this on the agenda and spent a lot of money on strengthening the sync market. Norway has taken a position. It is claimed that if the wording of Section 21 fifth paragraph remains as it stands now, the whole business model of the sync industry in Norway will be removed in principle, and that is hardly the intention. The problem is only the clarification that was made about what audio film is. I hope the Council of State takes that concern with me and see if there can be any changes. This was the point made by the Committee after the Committee had given its opinion, so it is a call to the Council of State to look into that paragraph. Otherwise, it is claimed, and I fully agree that what we are adopting today – the copyright law – is the very core wall and what ensures that the work of the Spirit is created, that the work of the Spirit is produced, that you and I can have access to the work of the Spirit. The law of the Spirit Work is what makes someone dare to take the risk of lifting art and culture into the future, so it's an important law we've been dealing with. Once again, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Committee for a very good work and for a very good cooperation. As I said, I am very pleased that we have reached such a consensus.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2500	I expect everyone to realize that there have been some difficult concepts for us to get into. When it comes to the challenge that applies, among other things: § 21, and the concern raised by both Geir Jørgen Bekkevold and Trond Giske from the interlocutory on the exception in the fifth paragraph, we in the Right and the Government fraction have chosen to place our trust in the assessments made in the proposition. We understand that there have been some formulations of what an audio film is. I have received several e-mails where some fear that they will lose the master's rights if it is recorded on an audio film, because then it is the audio film that becomes the object, and not the rights, that will then be attached to the master. Part of the transition of concepts that we have modernised the copyright law, creates a lot of despair if you don't understand it correctly. If it turns out that Section 21, as it is understood in the law, has some unintended consequences, I hope the department can look at it. Once I have read through the law – with all my mind and mind – I understand it so that the audio recording incorporated into a motion picture is cleared with the rightholder at the time it is recorded in the film. Thus, there is an exception in the law for such music recorded in a movie, because it has to be cleared by the rightholder. There is some rightholder who has the exclusive right to: be able to conclude a contract, an agreement for use, when it is included in a film. That's why you don't have to pay compensation through Gramo, because in that case it would mean a kind of double fee, that you also got Gramo compensation, in addition to that it was already cleared. There were a lot of details for a big hall to get into, but I just wanted to point out that we've assessed this question, and we have confidence in the ministry's assessment in the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2509	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2525	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a change of line of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and that: those who had to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2536	Today we are going to deal with a long extension and absolutely necessary road project, rv. 555 Sotra compound in Hordaland. Work on the link started in 1999. Today's Sotra-bru was opened in 1972 and was then built for the future. It has a capacity of 12000 ÅDT, today the load is 28 000 ÅDT. With today's bridge as the only access to the municipalities of Fjell, Sund and Eyegarden – with an extensive business life – the infrastructure is very vulnerable. With an annual traffic of about 27 400 vehicles, there is a major queue problem for public transport as well. In the period 2005–2016 there were a total of 143 personal injury accidents, six of which were fatal accidents. This is serious. The project includes the construction of 9,4 km of four-field road, with a new four-field bridge with a separate walk and cycle path. Also three smaller bridges are part of the project, as well as walking and cycling routes. The project also facilitates the prioritisation of public transport between terminals. An external quality assurance of the project has been carried out, and the KS2 consultant and the State Road Administration are largely in agreement with the development costs and prerequisites for the implementation of the project. Since quality assurance in 2008, the project has had a significant increase in costs, which is in fact 70 pst. Converted to 2018 level, the development costs have now been estimated to be approx. 10 B.C.E. kr. Socio-economic net benefits are calculated to be SEK 2.1 billion. kr. The project has been treated locally in all the municipalities concerned and in the district of Hordaland. Hordaland County Municipality has also adopted a guarantee for the project. A two-way recovery of tolls has been made at both new and existing Sotra bridges for a 20-year period. The average income per pass must be 40,50 kroner with the assumptions otherwise made. It is stipulated in the case that the Ministry of Transport is empowered to adjust tariffs in such a way that the average tariff is as provided for in the proposal. Hordaland County Municipality and Bergen Municipality have decided that detailed ceiling stops will be taken into consideration as it approaches the opening of the road system. The other municipalities have decided that a zero-emission vehicle should pay half of the normal fare for tariff group 1, in line with national guidelines. The national road system refers to the fact that if the introduction of a half tariff for a zero-emission vehicle is not sufficient to maintain the average tariff, the tariffs for all vehicles may be adjusted. By decision of the Ministry of Transport of Storting, the Ministry of Transport shall be empowered to adjust the tariffs in such a way that the average tariff becomes as provided for in this Protocol. The proposal to adjust the tariffs accordingly requires the consent of the county municipality as a guarantor. The big concern is how the next seven years will be before the project is completed. So it's high time to get started, and we're running out of time. So there's a distinction between the left-hand side and the right-hand side when it comes to the use of OPS, but that's what I want to get back to in a separate article. First of all, I would like to raise a point of order. 1, from the minority, which is the Centre Party, SV and the Workers' Party, where we ask for the Sotra connection to be built as an ordinary road project under the direction of the State Road Service, but with sufficient funding so that progress is made as foreseen in the Proposition. SV will take up his own proposal, proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2555	The representative Kirsti Leirtrø has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2560	I thought I was going to be a little ahead of the criticism or resistance from the opposition in the case of OPS. In the right, we are generally very concerned that planning and construction of road projects are being implemented quickly and cost-effectively, and that more current implementation strategies are being used. Therefore, we are very pleased that OPS has been used for the development of the Sotra connection. This is a complement to traditional implementation strategies, which we are convinced will contribute to innovation and increase the level of competence across the industry and facilitate increased flexibility, quality and efficiency in the implementation of the projects. The right will indicate that the previously completed OPS projects and the establishment of New Roads have shown good results. Projects are being implemented more rapidly and it is of great benefit that the contracting party takes the bulk of the risk associated with development costs, timing of completion, operational and maintenance costs and financing costs. The right considers that this project, organised as OPS, will also provide a great and beneficial advantage, with the associated predictability also for the region and local authorities, and is very pleased that the Sotra connection project is now being implemented. What we're not as satisfied with is, of course, that the opposition is putting stumbling blocks in the final phase of the project, by proposing a change in the method of implementation for ideological reasons, which will mean postponements and new rounds of implementation, which, in turn, is unfortunate for local businesses and the local population, who have to take that bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2571	It is with great pleasure that we today decide that there will also be a little more real four-field highways in Hordaland. I'm a little bit unsure about what the velocity is, but I hope, of course, it's 110 km/h. It's important to connect Sotra and Bergen and Fjell closer together. Today's rv. 555 is a typical two-field road. that it has strongly varying standards. By building a quadruple road with pitfalls, we not only link important regions in Hordaland closer together – which in itself will contribute to growth and development and employment, and to people living where they live and commuting over longer distances, since travel time falls – a four-field motorway also contributes to increased road safety and a reduced number of accidents. The experience we have seen from both E18 and E6 in the East is very positive. Roads that were once full of accidents, called ‘death roads’, are now safe and safe and free of fatal accidents, even with high traffic density, and although the current government has set the speed at 110 km/h. Rv. 555 Sotra connection is developed as an OPS project, i.e. public-private cooperation. The introduction of multiple OPS projects is one of two major changes implemented by the Right-wing Party-Left Government, with the support of the Christian People's Party. OPS may well be said to be Right ‘baby’ and has barely been used before we became a government. Now we add up to several OPS projects to be carried out across the country. In addition to OPS, we have established New Roads, which we must say is the ‘baby’ of the Advance Party. New Roads are not a separate partnership with private operators, but it is a state-owned road company that specialises and focuses on building only four-field motorways with 110 km/h as rational, efficient and fast as possible. Both these two models, OPS and New Roads, have proved to be a major success. New roads save approx. 20 pst. and a total of 30 billion. kr on the 540 kilometres by motorway they are to build. It's impressive. It is very impressive and actually represents a great revolution in Norwegian road construction, but also a revolution in how public administrations manage taxpayers' money. What's also particularly gratifying is that we see OPS projects being conducted cheaper. In my home country, Hedmark, we have experience with both New Roads, on the E6 extension, and OPS, on Rv. 3/rev. 25-digit number What is especially pleasing is that in the case of the OPS project, we see that the Road Service also saves 20 pst. relative to the original cost. So this is going to be rv. 3/rev. 25 Løten-Elverum. It is joyous, and we look forward to continuing to build the country faster, cheaper and more efficiently than what was usual before the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party were given responsibility for Norwegian transport policy. In addition, I think it is positive that this project is disbursed in 20 years instead of 15 years, which is common in most of the corresponding four-field projects. There's a great ÅDT on this road, almost 25 000. Then it's unnecessaryly high borrowing rate, and I think that's a little regrettable. It's 5.5 pst. It could have been lowered. In any case, the two conditions — high ÅDT and high borrowing rates — together could lead to a faster down payment than in those 20 years. More traffic and higher payments than you would have needed will lead to a 15-year down payment of the road. We have seen that in other road projects as well, for example. E16 through Akershus and E6 from Gardermoen and northwards – roads pay faster. It's a pleasure for the drivers, because then we can turn the bombs down faster.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2588	There's been a lot of talk about babies here right now, and it's probably a common baby we have at Stortinget with the municipality and the county that we're finally getting progress in the development of a new bridge to Sotra. Finally, the Storting can give a clear signal for the start-up. A bridge built in 1972 does not have the capacity it needs today. Today, traffic is 28 000 cars a day. It's almost a triple since it was built. This is an example of the fact that road development has given better growth and development in the area. Construction of bridges and new connections makes Norway more effective, and it creates developments throughout the country. A new bridge to Sotra will be better everyday for those who use this road daily. It will ensure better road safety and better access for all road users on the route. This could have been a joint commitment, but it is difficult, as the choice of funding model to which the Ministry provides is a OPS funding. A choice to scroll the account. There are examples that this has not been supported, for example. Contractors have gone bankrupt. The Transport Economic Institute has evaluated road projects that have been carried out as a OPS project and there has been no greater gain than if the implementation had been done within full public funding. The central party is aware that the State has to own its investments. Then there is also a better control over both construction and operation in retrospect. The problem with buying a payoff is that someone should of course pay for it, and that in this way, in total, we get less money for the payoff. Another feature is using OPS in large projects to get Norwegian entrepreneurs to build the project. For us in the Center Party, it is a goal to use the transport development to secure Norwegian jobs and value creation. It's a part of the community that we as the populace have to think about. The state road service has good competence and experience in road and bridge construction. We believe – together with the Workers' Party and SV – that one should use a traditional implementation model for this project. We don't have such bad advice that we have to pay off. It is claimed that our proposal can postpone and postpone the project. This we mean there is no basis for. In our proposal, we are making the same progress. We can't see that this gives practical obstacles, rather on the contrary. It is likely that it will be easier to conduct an offer competition for only the brewing, and the actors will be more than if one were to announce a project with obligations to operate for several years. If the project should be delayed as a result, it must be because one is not willing to insert the distinctions into the State budget. That's what the Center Party we should be able to do. The centre party is therefore in favour of the proposal put forward today by the representative of Mr Leirtrø.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2603	It's fun to listen to the representative Tor André Johnsen. I don't know if it was a greeting to us in SV – I have to say – but I take it as a little greeting. Johnsen has only two angles in his head, mostly. It's speed, and then it's money. I can't see that he has any angles on climate targets or growth targets – e.g. for traffic – nothing. The car has to come forward, and it has to come forward quickly. And there's going to be money on even more traffic. Let's call that short-thinking. SV of course agrees that the link with today's bridge as the only access to the municipalities of Fjell, Sund and Eyegarden – with extensive business life in the oil and gas sector – is exposed and it is very vulnerable. We have produced in the case papers an image that is characterized by large annual traffic, almost 30 000 vehicles, and a queue problem also for public transport. In addition, many accidents have been documented at this site. Then there is the mantra OPS – public-private cooperation – that the government parties long for. SV believes that the private debt financing of the road is poor management of the community's money. However it may be reversed and reversed, private financing of public road installations will entail greater financial costs, which ultimately have to be paid by the Community. This is exactly what was also commented on by part of the representative Odnes. He also referred to previous studies and experiences. We have to remember that over time, OPS will be more expensive, simply because the person who gets the contract will also have to take into account unforeseen costs, uncertainties. A private operator must not take the same chances economically. This score will be even bigger if the project goes out in time, if it's large. Nor does SV believe that the Milestone Payment Scheme compared to a normal OPS project will change much in this picture. A OPS project will still mean private debt financing of the public road. That is why we support the proposal to ask the government to implement the project, etc. 555 Sotra connection as an ordinary road development project directed by the State Road Administration. SV is also of the opinion that, as far as it is available, the regulatory plan violates the NTP objective of zero growth in passenger traffic. It's kind of so easy to walk into this when it comes to finished packages from the districts. It is so natural to make it easier for car traffic – easier for the car – to get there by building more and more files. It's a fascinating way of thinking that then everything gets so much better – for a while. But then we have again what I have said from the pulpit here so many times, that you can't build on the mantra and problems of private carism – I kept saying – by constantly expanding and adding new files. We don't believe it. A sotra connection as proposed in the regulatory plan will approximately triple the road capacity of the area after the construction of a new four-field road and the completion of the current two-field bridge. It is essential that the Sotra connection be given free public transport. For this to happen, SV believes that it is necessary to regulate the continuous collective trasé from the start of the connection. It will be in line with the stated objective of zero growth in passenger traffic, as the majority in this Chamber has said so many times. Should we not implement it in practice, through the individual decisions we are making here in the Chamber? It doesn't look like that. We also want it to be facilitated for rail transport, urban railways. The representatives of the SV have always had this position, including locally. I would like to raise the SV's proposal and recommend the proposal where SV is the co-sponsor.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2622	The representative Arne Nävra has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2627	This road link is a very important road link. It is only described by the fact that almost 25 000 cars travel on this route every day. This suggests that the road should actually be upgraded to a very high level of quality. This is done through the fact that the national transport plan, which was adopted almost a year ago, has this project as a clear priority. We are now following up on organizing it in a slightly untraditional way, but at the same time quite implemented and tried in different parts of the country. The left believes the OPS system is a good addition to the organisation that otherwise applies through the State Road Service and through New Roads. The belief of new ways to calculate socio-economic where to build first and how to design quality, and not least to include the contractor in advance in order to solve the challenges, is clearly a wish in this OPS project. I know that on this road connection there is a lot of commercial traffic, and we really get hope it increases, and that even more goods are going to be transported on this road. But at the same time, we should bring down the number of cars for passenger transport. The left is particularly pleased that you choose to give a discount to zero-emission vehicles, and that this percentage is increasing, because you can't build even more roads to emit even more CO 2. Arne Nävra from SV has that right. However, it is not possible to stop building a road to transport the goods produced – and not least to maintain the safety of road users.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2639	This case concerns the implementation of the project, etc. 555, Sotra connection in Bergen and Fjell. It's a project that we've been looking forward to for a long time, which is a very good project, also as an OPS project. In an article on the website båg.no, I see that the Workers' Party's Kirsti Leirtrø is concerned that Chinese capital can be used to build Norwegian roads. Yes, it is true that the OPS Sotra connection project is one of the projects in which Chinese operators show interest. In that case, it will not be the first time we have foreign operators within the construction of Norwegian infrastructure. At the same time, Norwegian entrepreneurs are very competitive in Norwegian road construction – we have seen that many times. They'll probably be in this project, too. But I just have to say that I'm not afraid of foreign capital, as long as competition is on neat terms. It is a good project that the Stortinget adopts today, and the Christian People's Party has been positive to OPS models also in previous road construction projects, mainly because it turns out to provide a shorter and more efficient construction period and thus a faster result. On the right track, the basis for the renewal of the way we build roads in Norway. During the red-green period, in our opinion, there was too little focus on the renewal of the sector. The Christian People's Party is pleased that we are now more thinking new. New Roads are in place and OPS is put into service, where appropriate, as a complement to traditional implementation strategies. The most important thing is that we ensure that the planning and construction of road projects is implemented quickly and cost-effectively. The OPS model is, in our opinion, a good instrument in this respect. With this as a rear carpet, it is interesting to record the continuing resistance of the Workers' Party to renewal through the use of e.g. public-private cooperation. In the setting, I read that the Workers' Party is still asserting its opposition to private financing of public road projects. One might at any rate say that the resistance has been consistent over time, you ask me, for October 26, 2011, the then prime minister from the Workers' Party answered a question about road construction from Knut Arild Hareide. He said, ‘If Norway starts to finance road projects, we have arranged very foolishly. Our problem is not that we have too little money, our problem is the total use of money and possibly pressure on the interest rate. We don't have to buy roads on payment, we can give them cash." If the Workers' Party still believes that borrowing is a wrong instrument in the road sector, there is reason to recall that the total loan amount that the red-green government was behind in order to build a new road was greater than ever before. The tolling system has interest charges that companies have to meet as a result of the loans they raise in ordinary banks. The companies also have other costs of operating the toll solutions. In addition, toll companies must advance their contribution to the construction of the road and therefore receive interest. If the Workers' Party still believes that this is setting itself up very stupidly, I think you have to do the calculations again. The working party provided to the greatest extent significant borrowings, or ‘roads of payment’, as they call it. There's a paradox. There is little credibility as you constantly express your resistance to, for example, OPS models, but otherwise accept that you are constantly collecting more money through borrowing. I am most concerned about this matter that we will get a faster expansion, lower risk and more money. We believe that the OPS model contributes to it. The most important thing now is to get built. 555, and that's a majority for here in this room. It will be built, and when the project is finished, it will mean a lot to the whole region. I am pleased, and I am pleased that the project has now come to Stortinget and can be implemented. The Christian People's Party supports the majority position.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2662	Today is a good day for everyone who lives and drives a car on the route where Sotrabrua is today. It's a stretch of a lot of traffic, with lots of queues and lots of irritation, and where the value creation is high in terms of the industries that live there, but where the cooling costs are similar. By building a better bridge, by improving the entire road system in that area, one will be able to strengthen both living and working conditions. One will make it more attractive for people to move there and establish business. That's good for the whole region. In addition, this is a project that makes it better for public transport, for times and for bicycles. Even if you do not establish your own collective fields throughout the route, you will have an increased capacity on the road network, which means that today's buses will not experience queues in the same way. The fact that one is given a separate walk and bike system, which is not available today, also makes it more attractive to choose such a type of transport. So all in all, this is good. So we're building a big bridge on almost one kilometer and three smaller bridge projects. One has to build approx. 10 km with a new four-field motorway and a walk and cycle path corresponding to around 14 km. The fact that a bus path/collective field is also partially separate is an important part of the whole. One would think that this triggered general cheer, but I've heard quite a lot of surmagic criticism, for various reasons, and I think that's a little strange. Someone is against the project almost because -- horror and horror -- people are driving cars there. Well, the criticism from SV only emphasizes why the red-green parties did so much to get things done and to the Stortinget, when they couldn't even agree if the road was actually good or bad. So there's a discussion about how this is financed. Yes, I hear here that it is criticism from a party that has voted against the government's proposal to cut tolls, but that even believes it is wrong to finance the way. Well, tolls are debt financing. And when one then disagrees with the government reducing debt financing, while one today uses OPS as an argument against debt financing, then one’s own policies are not linked. So here one should actually get the facts right so that one can take a factual discussion about what's reasonable or not. I also believe that the state does not initially need to borrow money. We have more than enough capital. However, once we have opted for toll financing on many projects, it is important that we keep costs as low as possible. But when it comes to financing by OPS, I just remind you that in the proposition, on page 9, one of them shows that most of the things that the private are going to finance are going to be paid off by the state almost immediately. So that means you don't have 20 years of interest on a private loan. It is only in the construction phase that primarily has this loan. So it's actually very little debt financing. So the arguments that SV and the Center Party have brought to square are simply not correct in relation to what OPS actually is. The argument becomes very artificial because it is presented as OPS as some other countries have done, where, in the absence of capital, the State borrows money that they then pay off over 20-25 years. So we're not doing it here, we're going to pay down that loan very quickly. On the other hand, OPS is an implementation strategy, a sensible implementation strategy, and if we had burned ourselves in Norway three to four times before, I would have understood the scepticism. On the other hand, we have four good examples to show. Therefore, the resistance to OPS from the opposition is quite strange, because it has actually shown us so far that this is a way one can either build faster and better or even cheaper – ergo a win for the drivers and a win for the state. Recently, a OPS contract on rv was concluded. 3/rev. 25-digit number There was also the opposition against it. But the experience showed that we saved about 20 pst. in that form. So it's over 1 billion. kr. So the ideological resistance of the red-green parties costs taxpayers 1 billion. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. If one then thinks about the road projects that started in the previous eight years before we joined, one can only imagine how many billions you have wasted on taxpayers' money because of your own ideological principle. Then I think it's right and good when the bulk of the population supports that we look at better ways to organise road projects here. The road authorities have shown that they can do it, and New Roads have shown that they can do it. But someone sits and says no, no, no, because one is so opposed that one should try something new. I look forward to the Vegvesenet also working well with the entrepreneur here to ensure that this project is built better and cheaper than we would hope today, but in any case: the project is extremely important, and I am glad that the Stortinget has a majority to adopt it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2691	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2696	The Sotra connection was one of the construction projects that the Chinese CCCC, China Communications Construction Company, was and was briefed on last summer, following an invitation from the former Minister of Industry. At the same time, Chinese banks were briefed by the Minister of Transport on our NTP. This is a major project for the Norwegian construction industry, but it is a small project for the Chinese. Will the Minister for Transport welcome Chinese road builders and Chinese funding to Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2703	I have for four and a half years said in my breath that I am concerned that when we build Norwegian roads, we will also strengthen Norwegian business. I am very proud and happy that on all the major road projects it is Norwegian contractors who are now winning contracts. However, we enjoy competition. I see that even the big entrepreneurs say they're out of competition and more than happy to meet it, because they're sure they're going to win, based on qualifications and costs. The last time a Chinese contract was concluded on a national road project, it was in fact the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV who managed the country. No such thing has been done for our roads as long as today's government has ruled. The last time it was concluded on the highway, it was the Centre Party and the Workers' Party that directed the county where it happened. I am very sure that Norwegian operators will do well here, and will just remind you that under our government has 93 pst. of all road contracts awarded to Norwegian contractors, against less than 80 pst. the last time the Workers' Party crashed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2710	It's always important to have knowledge of what you decide. My question is: has the government considered the reason Norway is interesting to the Chinese, and analysed the defence and national security risks involved in facilitating the construction of vulnerable infrastructure by entrepreneurs outside the EEA?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2717	There are assessments that we make both in the ministry and not least from a foreign and security policy assessment. I think that the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence can get a good account of it if they want it. I think it is a bit strange to get that kind of question from the Workers' Party, all the time it was under the Labour Party's administration the big contracts went abroad. 22-23 p.m. of all the road contracts under the regime of the Workers' Party in recent years went abroad, while under our government there are about 7 pst. If anyone were concerned about security in connection with contracts, you should have been when the Workers' Party crashed. Today's government has taken care of the concerns the Workers' Party is now raising, and one should not wish to return to the time when the Workers' Party itself ruled. We have been concerned that we should ensure that contractors are not only looked at in terms of price, but also in terms of delivery, quality and the entire package. New roads have very good experience. We also see that the largest road contract in Norway ever went to a Norwegian company, for the construction of Rv. 3/rev. 25-digit number
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2726	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2733	This is a big day for the region that I'm from. The Sotra connection is the only continental connection we have to our region, which consists of the municipalities of Fjell, Sund and Eyegarden. With me at the gallery up here today, we have a great bouquet of current vocabularies, former vocabularies, alternates, and pastors added to the municipalities, so this testifies to the great commitment and the incredible importance of this project. But it also shows that it has taken a long time. He has been working on this project for over 20 years, and it is not easy to achieve such an important project like this. But perhaps such an important project as this should have been completed 15 years ago. Everyone who has been up here before today has talked about the importance of this project. A few days ago, I visited a company, Sartor Machine, with 100 added. They have GPS in their cars, and they said they had experienced 25 cars in the same queue, on the same day, at the same time, for 1 hour and 20 minutes. This relationship is a critical link, and it also testifies to the economic and socio-economic costs of such bottlenecks in our society. Now, some immediate measures have been implemented, but they don't make much sense on the challenges we face today. So it's a big wonder I hear that the opposition wants to postpone this project, which they actually do if they had got multiples so that this OPS project wouldn't have been agreed. It would have been a scandal for our region if this project could not now have been agreed as it stands in the proposition. Fortunately, it seems that they don't get multiple numbers, and when we go to voting tonight, it's in the Count's time, so that the region can get the road and the road systems that we sorely need. But: When it concerns the Sotra connection as it stands in the proposition today, I think it might hardly meet the need for today. The representative from the left said that quite well. Having faith that growth in commercial traffic would not increase passenger car traffic, I actually think of it as an illusion. I would like to agree that we should try to limit traffic into Bergen, but we need a new road now south of Sotra, and for all things: in 20 years, when it takes so long to create projects like this, we may also need a continental connection in the south. This takes time, but it's a happy day today. I sincerely hope that we can put the spade in the ground as soon as we can. So we're slipping over today, and we're finally getting to agree to this important project for our region.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2748	There were many oblique OPS enthusiasts here, and the majority indicate that previously completed OPS projects have shown good results. I have not found a single investigation or report documenting good results on OPS road construction. However, a report says that there are no good evaluations in Norway to conclude this. But there is experience from other countries, and that is bad experience. So there are no clear conclusions on whether maintenance will be easier, whether there will be more technological innovation, or whether OPS will generally be cheaper. In its alternative transport plan, the government has referred to the findings of this report on a possible faster deployment, but not on any of the other results. OPS may be applicable in countries where the public sector lacks money and where, through the OPS model, it may be possible to realise projects that would otherwise not have been able to do so. But in Norway we are not known for lack of money. There is no doubt that existing toll companies with public guarantees achieve better market conditions than is the case for conditions contained in OPS contracts. We'll tie up future state budgets using OPS. We bypass the rule of action, and we also send a larger bill to the drivers. In addition, this project has a very high risk. We in the Workers' Party are open to new forms of contract for road construction and maintenance, between public and private actors, which provide more money – and we are positive to see road development, operation and maintenance in a context. But we will stress the importance of implementing operations and maintenance on sections that are naturally linked, regardless of the type of extension contract used. This will allow society to achieve synergies and cost-effectiveness in road operations. It might be a good idea to explain what things cost, before you commit to such an agreement for so many years. It'll be hard to defend ideology if you see that the price then becomes 50 pst. higher — for example.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2761	We who sit in this room should be careful to suggest that government models other than government can lead to price increases of over 50 pst. I guess we've experienced some of that lately. In general, this should be a day of joy. I see those movies from the Sotra bench up there from the gallery, I get that. Let me, who is from Ashøy, say it's a great day for us too. If we look at this pulpit and its width, it's about the width of today's footpath and bike path across the Sotra connection. So to those who are talking about today that it does not lead to any improvement in public transport and does not contribute to the achievement of the zero growth target in passenger car traffic, I would say that today no one is walking or cycling with sense and understanding over Sotrabrua without knowing that there is a high, high risk of both porting – I kept saying – in the sea and getting under a car. They'll do that in the future. That means it'll be walking, and it'll be cycling. At the same time, large sections of the route have priority for public transport. There will be more public travellers. The tolling system itself, linked to this, results in approx. 10 pst. reduction in traffic, i.e. that we achieve the goal of reducing car traffic only because of that part of it, but not least because cycling, walking and public transporters get a completely different drive. I am one who – unlike many of the speakers here today – has stood in the queue that is created every day at Storavatnet, a cross that does not have 24 000 – 25 000 cars per day on average, but 50,000 cars per day on average. We from Askøy experience having to stand in line because the ones from Sotra do not come out. There's some irritation there. It is not directed at the sotra weather, it is directed towards the design of the cross, where buses and cars are in line – and ambulances with them, just as fully. This is therefore something that needs to be implemented as soon as possible. When the Workers' Party here says they're going to do it at the same time, but nevertheless go a new round for the organisation of the project, it's completely unrealistic. It's kind of like standing in Bergen and saying yes, we want rain, but we want dry rain. It's just not gonna work. It's going to take extra time, just because the tolling itself has to go through a new round at all local politics levels. When SV will make changes to the plan itself and the plan programme by going through what has already been thoroughly reviewed several times, i.e. dimensionalising the urban dimension, it means a long delay. I'll quote from the proposition itself in view of part of what is said here today: ‘Compared with normal implementation, the borrowing and interest costs of the tolling company will thus be lower in implementation as a OPS project. This means that, at the same tariff level, the toll contribution to the project will be greater in implementation of the OPS project than in normal implementation.» It actually means that this is both faster and cheaper than the option.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2786	Sotra has been on the political agenda for many years. From the local news all know the term ‘555’ for daily notifications that there is a queue on rv. 555. When the matter started today, I was also in and looked at the top news in BA, and it said: Abnormally long queues westward, no accident, it looks like everyone is going home at the same time. So I am absolutely convinced that for many today this is incredibly important. Finally, something concrete happens. The previous speaker, the representative Nilsen, said that he lives in Askøy. I live in that part of Bergen that passes 50,000, so I'm in line too. Even if I take a bus, I'm in the same line. But it's been a long canoeing session. I remember very well that the right promised in 2014 that only we would introduce OPS, it would be construction start in 2015. It's hard for us to know if it's OPS that has taken so long. There has also been an increase in costs of 70 pst. since 2008 and it is difficult for us to know how much of this is due to the selection of OPS. As I understand it, the population now – and I think it is new – will pay with tolls both a large share of the investment and also the operation and maintenance of the road for a long time to come. Prosperity is the biggest challenge and will continue for a long time to come. Construction time is at least seven years and costs are also a major challenge. I therefore expect the Ministry of Transport and the County Council to follow up on the clear message from the three municipalities west of Bergen that the electric cars must also pay, 50 pst. It will affect car use, and thus its emergence, and will also have a positive impact on revenue. It surprises me that the government is so convinced that OPS is the smart way to finance large road projects. The public has better funding opportunities. It will require close follow-up to ensure that the quality requirements are present and we will not be naive. For what is the balance between what is to be invested in the road projects themselves compared to future expenditure on maintenance? With such large contracts – to what extent will it exclude local contractors from missing skills and assignments? But first of all, it's a happy day today, and we're looking forward to the Sotra connection being set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2799	SV is not necessarily the primary target group for the posts held here in the pulpit, at least not for those who are held by me as a party representative, but I must say that I appreciate the care or the pleasant support – if I can use that word – that I received from SV. At least it was clearly noticed. I want to remind SV of a very important thing. It's possible that SV would think it would be useful if we had all represented one party, but we're all chosen here at disagreement, we're chosen here because the voters want different solutions. While the electorate of the Progress Party wants better, safer, safer roads – preferably with four fields and mid pulleys that can connect regions – SV wants the opposite. They don't see the need to build roads, even if the bus has to come forward. It was said here that speed and money were almost the only point I had in my previous post. It's a saying that time is money, it's a little connected. And it's definitely not short-sighted, as the representative from SV actually claimed. It's not that. It's respect, and it's an understanding for those who have worked for over 20 years to realize the project, and for those who are running and perhaps sitting in line every day, day out and day in, in the morning and in the afternoon, on a poor and low-traffic two-way road. It is respect for those who have to sit in line and do not get home from work in time to be with the children in sports activities, and it is a respect and understanding for those who may have to get up early in the morning and do not manage to deliver the children to kindergarten or school because they are in line instead. So it's important to build a road that takes away the capacity that density requires. That's why we're now building this road. It is also important for the Progress Party to have freedom of choice and flexibility. People have to be able to continue living where they live, and then they have to be allowed to commute over longer distances. Therefore, it is important to build the country and develop better infrastructure, so that even those who live far away from central routes, far away from Bergen, can have the opportunity to commute and use the car. It's very important. Then we have it with pollution, as I know SV is particularly concerned about: I just want to remember what we have done with today's government, supported by the Left, Christian People's Party, Right and Advance Party. We're now at 82 grams of emissions for the new car park. It's 3 grams lower than the climate deal. We achieved that in 2017, and it is three years before the climate agreement. And if you're in line for hours every day, there's no good climate policy either.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2812	It's very good that the Storting now has a majority to adopt this project. We should have seen that it had happened earlier, but we also need to remember that the regulatory plans were adopted as late as 2016, and building something before the local politicians have said where they want it to be built, should be done well. So there's a logic in why things don't always go as fast as we wanted. But the point is that now it's here, now it's in place, and so we see that the opposition – in its ideological resistance to getting a lower price – will rather spend longer on reshaping the entire contract strategy, then getting a higher price in the market. It's twice illogical, to say it like a former Labour Party minister would say. And there's something embedded in the protests from the Workers' Party that comes into their posts. As I mentioned in my main post, the four OPS projects built on the road have produced good results. Saying that there are examples abroad that have given poor results, I think that is relatively little interesting and not relevant in our debate, because that is the Norwegian way to do it, we're actually going to discuss it. The fact that other countries that have no specific capital use it as a method of financing can, of course, criticise, but that is not the funding underlying OPS in Norway. In Norway, we mainly pay down the private debt when the road opens. It's the implementation methodology that's the most important thing here, the implementation methodology that we see New Roads have achieved great success. There is one of the same possibility that the State Road Service here has – and as they have used it in Elverum, where they have saved $1.5 billion, and which they can now do on the Sotra connection – where one simply gets in the contractors earlier, commits them much more to the long-term benefits and costs of the project and not just gives them a finished construction drawing. So when the Workers' Party here actually has a proposal to implement this as an ordinary project, it actually shows that they haven't learned anything from the four years we've discussed New Roads, of the years we've discussed OPS. One should just do it the old way, even if it gets more expensive and worse. That kind of ideological resistance makes no sense. So I just remind you, in terms of borrowing financing the road – tolls are like the debt financing – that in the last two years the Workers' Party has been overthrown, they have financed over 42 pst. of road construction in Norway. Now we're under 30 pst. in 2018. So once again, if there's anyone who's fulfilled what the Labour Party is critical of, it's just the majority of today. And then there's only one assessment, and that's that after you've voted for this project, it's making sure that today's government continues into the next projects as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2825	The Council of State refers to four previous OPS projects and claims to show good results. I think it's important that someone get an analysis, and I referred to a report that says that OPS projects in Norway have gone over so long that it's hard to see the effect. It could be that things are going a little bit faster, but it's getting a lot more expensive, and you haven't seen any effect on either the technological or the experience transfer. It is also problematic that the projects are not linked, but that a distinction is made on the road according to where the different projects are. It is referred to New Roads that they refer to good results. As far as we know, the projects have not been completed by Nye Veier, but it is incredibly important that this is also evaluated and analysed. The representative, Tor André Johnsen, says that the Progress Party is for better and safer roads. There's no one here in the main hall who's against it. He claims that SV is against it, and it sounds like only the Progress Party is concerned about it. I would like to believe that a concerted increase is concerned with road safety, better and safer roads, and that we will get as much as possible back for the money we invest. In any case, when NTP was adopted by Stortinget, the Labour Party did not vote against a single krone that was proposed in the NTP.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2834	The representative of Tor André Johnsen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2839	I just want to say that I think it's a little weird that the representative Grung is concerned that developers are taking responsibility for the operation and maintenance of the road in an OPS project. It's actually positive, it's definitely not negative, it contributes to ensuring good quality. That really makes sense. You do not build a bad path when you know that you have to take responsibility for it yourself. So that's an advantage. Then we have it with local entrepreneurs, which is also a cliché statement that comes at regular intervals from the opposition, that you do not get local entrepreneurs on such projects. It's also a strange statement that doesn't really have a root. In fact, it is quite common for many of the smaller entrepreneurs who are in the community and in the local environment to have smaller projects. The main contractor doesn't take everything himself. And to SV: I can calm down that we don't want states like in the United States, like SV tends to say, with 7 or 8- or 10- or 14- or 16-field highways. We're satisfied with four fields. If we get it and connect the regions together, we've achieved what we want.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2848	When I hear this debate, it reminds me of the story of the politician who saw the light in the tunnel. Then he asked for more tunnel. The point is that we've actually come so far that we're about to have a construction start on this connection. And then it's not like OPSs haven't been evaluated in Norway. When they carried out the OPS E39 Lwgdal-Eflege and other projects — there were three to four in context — an evaluation of TØI and Dovre International was actually carried out. They evaluated these projects, and they found that it had become cheaper, it had been implemented faster, and some of the benefit of the OPS is to allocate risk. There is a completely different risk initially when you have an OPS. It is then divided between those to build and those to own, and it means building more solidly when to maintain the road afterwards. It's an incentive. The state roadway service doesn't build its own roads. They submit tenders and the same contractors building roads for the State Road Service are also involved in competing for OPS projects. Another thing that was produced as a disadvantage by the Workers' Party is that the state commits itself to agreements. Yes, fortunately! Is not one of the main problems in building roads and infrastructure in Norway with annual budgets? In some respects, the government is binding its budget for longer periods, and that is when a OPS agreement is entered into. It's a long-term agreement, and that's the agreement you've made with Nye Veier, where you've also committed yourself to annual appropriations, which makes it predictable. It is also an advantage for these projects. The experience that has been gained is good, and we have now come a long way. So they say it has no consequences to say no to OPS now. Yes, because it must be through new processes, both locally and centrally. In fact, the SV’s proposal is not to build the road at all, and it is a completely different project – which will take years if new elements were to be included in that project. The worst thing you can do when you get this far in Norwegian road projects is get good ideas in the final phase, because it takes a long time to implement something other than what you've planned once you've come this far. That is why people – including in the Labour Party – should be happy that they are now being voted down.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2859	This is a happy day in Sotra and in the Bergens area, as many have said, and then there will be a debate here with a little high temperature about the expansion model. That is what the disagreement is primarily about – the model of expansion, and that is also why I took the floor. The representative of Trellevik said that the opposition will postpone the project. That doesn't lead to correctness. The working party wants with all its heart to get on with the expansion of the Sotra connection, and I want to add: it should have happened a long time ago. So there's an impatience here, which makes us unsure if the OPS model is right, and that's a reason for that. It is the current government, the Right Party and the Advance Party, which said in 2014 that the construction start of the Sotra connection could take place in 2015 – i.e. three years ago it was announced construction start. Probably uncertainty about the model and the selection of OPS is one of the reasons why the project has been postponed. So I think someone each should go in on himself and maybe turn over to consent when one discusses the question here today. That's a good thing. A completely necessary connection will be put in place. It should have been built earlier, so there's a disagreement about the model. So I'd say this isn't black-and-white. This is not a perfect model for road construction or other organisation of Transport Norway. There is not one model where everything is right, and other models where everything is wrong. No, it's advantages and disadvantages of all models. But we believe it would have been more right to build the Sotra connection as an ordinary road project, such as the State Road Service building other road projects. We also believe that we could have started building faster. That's the disagreement here in the hall. Then I think that both the Minister of Transport and others should be too good to put arguments to political opponents, or opponents – or what we call it – who are not voting. I would like to make one more point: the working party is for the Sotra connection. We're too new. We're too new, but there's a disagreement about model. There are probably advantages to the model that the majority of people are now in favour of, but we think that it would probably have gone faster if we had chosen the traditional model. But it's a happy day. Now we have to get started.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2876	This is actually to the representative Igstad: I don't know if it's a very good political qualification to be a waiter, if we turn around and don't follow the ideology we have, the opinions we have, and that we've had from local treatment to the hall here. I think we should be consistent. We're going to have some opinions, and we're going to stand for those opinions. The most important thing is to get rid of the queue. I think everyone agrees on that. But then the question is, how are we going to get rid of the queue on these roads, which are often bottlenecks? Should we do that by removing some private cars, maybe, so that the bus gets lighter, or should we get another field, so that we get more cars on the way? These are absolutely central questions, and these are questions we have to take into account on site by location by location. We have to make some choices. We have to be tough in the merge if we're going to do something about these environmental issues we're facing. We have to! I am absolutely sure that those who need the car, from the districts and in – I have been living in the district for many years – can access that road if all those who do not need to take the car can take collective means of transport. Then they are removed from that path. If we make more and more car traffic and make it easier and easier for the drivers, we are in the old, good trap again. It's easy to have a position that the representative Johnsen has, it's delicious. Had I stood here then, I might have received local support – that's great what he says – and I could use colorful words about several fields, as Johnsen does. But he doesn't think long-term. If we are to take some responsibility for this globe, we need to see each case separately, but also together. It is the overall load, the overall mindset that spews out a new direction for Norway — in terms of transport, and in terms of greenhouse gas emissions. The last alarming messages from the Arctic came today and yesterday, about what it looks like around Svalbard. There's a relationship between urban growth agreements, how we solve the Sotra connection, how we solve the transport problems in the Drammen, and how the polar bear is doing on Svalbard. It sounds distant, it might sound naive, but it's actually not. There is a connection – and I don't think about the Sotra connection – between all these individual issues and the climate turmoil we're facing. I ask that all these individual matters be seen in context, and I also ask for respect for such a view. It's so easy to label us -- and on each other in this room, like we're not responsible enough, or we're naive, a little far away from reality. I'm not!
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2887	It was very easy to support the latter speeches. I repeat, I haven't seen a single report saying it's cheaper with OPS. OPS does not make a project cheaper but provides a predictable framework. I myself have experience from E39, Orkdal–Øysand, in Trøndelag. There, the trees were taken down last year. Now the State Road Service proposes to close the road for one year on the basis of the Tunnel Safety Regulation, which was not part of the agreement concluded while this was still an OPS project. The OPS project has been completed. So I want to repeat that we won't postpone the project. This is actually a happy day. All analyses and KVUs have been carried out. The state road safety services and KVU investigators agree on how this should be done, and it is only possible to get started. Changing the form of funding is no delay, as someone here claims. I hope that in retrospect we can be more good at coming up with insights about what are benefits and disadvantages, because there is no doubt that this is ideologically directed. As I said, I have not seen a single report that says this is going to be cheaper. It may be faster, but it depends on the agreement being concluded.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2898	I think everyone in this room wants the best way and communication for community money. That's where I think we agree. It's really both about transparency, about what's the good way to spend the money, and about how to organize it. And then I got some lines and comments back. Firstly, I think that planning affects the most – both progress and costs. There's a new tool called government plan. I'm sure that if you had used this effectively, you would have had a lot of connections like the Sotra connection could have increased progress, rather than being the OPS itself that solves it. We don't have to look after ourselves so that we get such a lot of offers that there are few providers that can compete, because it also increases the price. I come from the nutrition committee, and I know – and everyone here knows – that most of our business is small and medium-sized enterprises. It is uncertain to me to what extent an OPS project can be divided, as the State Road Service can now do, because there is a great difference between being a subcontractor and having a separate responsibility, both in terms of how to praise the services, and – not least – in terms of how to develop the skills, which we want primarily to benefit the Norwegian companies. Then there is a challenge, regardless of the project – especially for OPS, where they are both responsible for development and future maintenance – to have the control that must be in place to ensure that they comply with the quality requirements. And then it's a balance-sheet -- if you build good infrastructure in the investment piece, it's going to be less maintenance. If you build more easily, it goes more to maintenance, of course. That's the balance I'm not sure about – where's the smart intersection? As I mentioned in my post instead, it is, as I understand the setting, the first time to finance tolls, both development and future operation and maintenance. At least I have not received an answer as to whether this is the case, but it is in that case new.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2912	I take the floor again because the representative Myrli responded to my post, where I claimed that if the proposal from the Labour Party gets multiples, it will postpone the project. It is now time to create a contract strategy for such a gigantic project that it has not been done in a handshake. I'm sure the Minister of Transport will be able to answer how long this will take. I think it'll take at least one year and delays in this proposal get more today. So bad is actually the opposition proposal. So I want to encourage the representative Myrli and the opposition not to vote for their own proposals tonight if they actually think that the project should not be delayed. I respect that they have a different view of this, and that the project is important – it has been confirmed more than once here and now – but I would therefore challenge the opposition to either drawing the proposal or simply not voting for its own proposal when we go to voting tonight. It helps to secure the connection; it helps ensure that the Workers' Party shows that they really want to build this project – and not even postpone it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2921	This has become a long debate on a project that I believe most people want to implement as quickly as possible. The debate is largely about the implementation method chosen for the project. The background that we are concerned with choosing other implementation methods is simply that we want to use the toolbox that is there, use the models that are there, to build as quickly as possible, as efficiently as possible, and to make sure that we get the best possible way for each crown. It's created an image here of that if we build in another way, we can get a smaller project – or structure it in another way. No, we can't build half a bridge or half a tunnel, the project here is big anyway. It will be a major transport project on a Norwegian scale, and we must implement it as it is, a major and important project. In the case of OPS, I might think that with the model chosen here, a structure is also chosen on the cash flow that makes an actual one come out pretty well of it. If I can quote from Prop. 41 S for 2017-2018, which reads as follows : ‘Compared with normal implementation, the borrowing and interest costs of the tolling company will thus be lower in implementation as a OPS project. This means that, at the same tariff level, the toll contribution to the project will be greater in implementation of the OPS project than in normal implementation.» So it's structured in such a way that it gives a very good result for the project as a whole. It provides a good cash flow, which the state may also be familiar with, and which will serve the project. We get the best out of the implementation strategy that OPS is, that we can see investments and operations and maintenance in the context. Some people might try to make it a problem, but New Roads shows that the relationship between investment, operation and maintenance is actually a good idea. A get more innovation, one gets done things smarter, and one gets more implementation in the projects. I think that's good. Therefore, OPS is an appropriate implementation strategy. What this shows, and what the projects carried out at the beginning of the 2000s show, are just good results. That's the whole point. The problem is that the good results were put in the Labour Party drawer for eight years. Instead of following up on the good results and ensuring that new projects were implemented in a good way, they were put in the drawer without using the possibilities that lay there. I think this is an interesting debate, and the OPS debate may go on, but here – through this model – we will ensure smart solutions, a good connection between investment, operation and maintenance and guarantee at the maintenance level and the quality of maintenance for 25 years to come. That's what we think will be a good solution, and it'll be a great way to implement this important project.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2939	I'm sorry to use the time for Stortinget, but I thought the case rapporteur would get the last word, so I'm trying now. Here it is claimed that a proposal to do so using a different funding method than OPS will delay the project. I think that's pretty straightforward. It has taken this government five years to promote this matter for Stortinget. It's had a cost increase of 70 pst. This building project is a 10-billion-dollar project. kr, and even the proposition states that it is a risky OPS project. It's too high in relation to the government's own investigations as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2944	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2960	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, six series of replies be given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2969	This matter concerns two proposals for representatives. One is that the planning of ports should be with the Coastal Works, and the other is that the fishing ports should continue to be a State responsibility. The proposals have a background in Prop. 84 S for 2016-2017, which concerns the re-division of the regionally elected level, proposing that responsibility for the fishing ports be transferred from the State to the regional level from 1 January 2020. The size joined this, cf. Inner. 385 S for 2016-2017. The proposal promoted by the Centre Party is reversing the decision to transfer to the local population-elected level, while the proposal promoted by the Workers' Party deals with adaptation to the Storting decision. The government has justified the transfer of fishing ports to the regions with a desire to strengthen local democracy by transferring more power and authority to local/regional elected levels, and that the development of fishing ports naturally falls within the role of county municipalities as community developers. It has been pointed out that it may be a challenge for each region to develop competences similar to those of the Coastal Plant today. In today's system, the Swedish Coastal Agency is responsible for project planning, while the actual development is being put to tender. Many of the technical studies carried out under the auspices of the Coastal Administration in the planning process are currently purchased services. The coastal works shall complete the planning of projects to be carried out under their own control until 2020 and shall also implement all projects starting before that date. In addition to this, the Coastal Agency has a portfolio of fishing port projects within the national transport plan 2018-2029, which are in different planning phases. Commenting on the proposals, the Ministry of Transport stated that project continuity can be ensured by giving the county councils and municipalities access to the coastal planning material as it exists today, and thus will not have to start planning completely again where the coastal works have already started. Furthermore, the Ministry states that, in order to facilitate the realisation of new projects, county municipalities may start following up administrative measures to support the 2020 fisheries port financing. The coastal works will engage in dialogue with the county municipalities and will be open to information meetings and processes to facilitate the administration of county municipalities in the best possible and most flexible way. The decision on the transfer of fishing ports to the regionally elected level has created some criticism and noise along the coast of Norway. The main reason is that some uncertainties have arisen about how the transfer and funding will be carried out and whether a vacuum will arise in the planning of new actions. There are also questions as to whether the regionally elected level will be able to acquire this competence in time. The Ministry is now working on these challenges. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation. The plural position of the Committee is that the proposals are not adopted, and I expect the parties themselves to present their proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e2992	The Workers' Party has submitted a Document 8 proposal to maintain planning competence in the Coastal Works related to the planning of fishing ports. The background is that a limited majority of the Stortinget decided that fishing ports should be transferred to the regions from 1 January 2020 onwards. This means in clear terms that the Coastal Plant has completed its planning work, and no planning work will be carried out until after the regions have assumed this responsibility. It may take from four to six years to plan a fishing port, which illustrates that this is a high level of special competence. The working party is genuinely afraid that this competence will disappear in the gap in which the government has created, as a result of which there are two years left until the regions take over. This is a derailed professional environment that can be weathered and that is not necessarily available to the regions when they need it. The Labour Party has voted against this transfer in Stortinget. We believe that the planning of fishing ports is a state responsibility, in line with national road development and rail, and not something to be left to each region and subject to framework transfers and non-governmental appropriations directed at the Coastal Plant. This down-priority of coastal and port conditions is the sole responsibility of the government and the majority of the population. The Labour Party chose not to run a rematch, but to be constructive and try to find a solution that the coastal communities could serve, in which we proposed that the planning competence should remain in the Coastal Works, and the regions should use it in their work on fishing ports. Furthermore, we believed that the Coastal Plant would be allocated funds from the state to resume this work. Coastal rapporteurs have expressed concern at the outcome of this policy proposed by the Government. This also applies to the rapporteur, Mr Solsvik, in Andøy and the rapporteur of the Christian People's Party in Skjervøy. In the light of this cross-political concern, the Labour Party chose an entry point where we did not start a rematch, but tried to get the majority to a sensible solution. It didn't work out. The responsibility for it lies on the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and Christian People's Party, whose Christian People's Party votes in favour of this. These are the fruits of their miserable handling of regional reform. They have transferred responsibility to a body from 1 January 2020, and the planning has already stopped, and that means we can have many years of stay before any new fishing ports are completed. It should have a good back to do such a miserable craft and not fix it. This serves neither Solvik-Olsen nor case rapporteur Johnny Finstad to honor along the coast of Norway. In its reply to the Committee, the Council of State writes: ‘The government wants to strengthen local democracy, inter alia by transferring more power and authority to local/regional elected levels. This gives greater proximity to decisions on the importance of local knowledge and involvement, and the development of fishing ports naturally falls within the role of local authorities as community developers.’ How power and authority can be strengthened when decisions are taken that have stopped planning – and it will be many years before we start building up new fishing ports that are currently waiting, but are not yet planned – is a mystery to me. I expect the Council of State and the rapporteur-in-chief Finstad to give a good answer to that. The government and the majority of the population are destroying a professional environment, knowingly and willfully. This professional environment is located in Kabelvåg and Honningsvåg, not where the regions have their administrative locations. This affects individuals, but we hear nothing about it. The Labour Party stretched out a hand to the majority to get a constructive solution to this matter, for the benefit of the coast and the people of the coast. We're recording that it wasn't interested. The majority of the handling must be pushed through – whether it destroys a professional environment or not. I can't say 'good job' to you, because here you have been neither constructive nor reasonable. The Labour Party addresses the proposals we are on, no. 1, 2 and 3, and in addition will provide subsidiary support to the proposal of the Centre Party, No 4, as this is the primary position of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3021	The representative of Ingarill Olsen has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3026	Today, we are discussing two representative proposals dealing with fishing ports: another common proposal for a reversal by the Central Party concerning the adoption of previous decisions – a rematch – while the other is about the adaptation of existing decisions. Fishing ports are very important infrastructure and an important prerequisite for activity, value creation and settlement along the coast of Norway. The decision of June 2017 concerns the transfer of responsibility for fishing ports from the Coastal Plant to the regions. For the Progress Party, it is right and important to shift more responsibility and decision-making power closer to users, to local and regional administrative bodies. In my view, the responsibility of regional authorities for the fishing ports is both correct and important. It is not a down-priority, on which the Labour Party representative was involved, but a strengthening of the role of regional authorities as social developers. This will lead to a shorter decision-making line and to a greater degree of fishing ports becoming an important part of regional planning. It will contribute to strengthening the attention and role of fishing ports in local and regional planning. It will strengthen overall regional transport and nutrition planning. It will strengthen the role of regional authorities as social developers. The proposal from the Centre Party and the SV to reverse the decision of June 2017 will give less decision-making power to the districts. It seems that the Central Party does not have confidence in regional decision-makers, nor does it want the districts to be governed from Oslo and Stortinget. I have faith in local government. I believe that regional authorities will develop the fishing ports in order to continue to ensure activity, value creation and settlement along the coast of Norway. Most of the counties today make regional transport plans. By integrating the fishing ports into regional planning, the regions will have a more comprehensive transport and nutrition planning. Luckily, once the Coastal Agency stops planning fishing port projects to be launched after 2020, an advance-shooting system is in place to help speed up important fishing port projects. During this transitional phase, it is important that the competence of the Coastal Agency in the planning, ordering and development of fishing ports is made available for the transfer of competence to the regions. This will help the regions to be better equipped to take on responsibility in a good way. As far as the Progress Party is concerned, we see it as important that we ensure the financing of the fishing ports that become predictable, that a funding model is established for distribution that is perceived to be fair and sensible, given the need for good and safe fishing ports across the coast. That work is well under way, and I have great faith that we will be able to find a predictable funding model, even if it is distributed over framework grants to the new regions. It will also strengthen the role of regional authorities as a social developer to deliver new, important tasks from state to regional level.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3049	Municipalities will take responsibility for many new tasks. For example, Nordic countries had about 20 main points with different tasks that the county would take over. Several of the indents had more than one problem. It was in R & D, administrative responsibility, aquaculture, cultural heritage, internationalisation, hospital organisation, child protection, preparedness, authorisations for resource use, etc. But the fishing ports are a task that was specifically not wanted to be transferred. It works well today with the State-owned fishing ports, with the Coastal Agency in charge of planning, development, operation and maintenance. In this case, there is a huge gap between the people of some parties out on the coast and in here on the Stortinget. The leader of the Northland Left e.g., Anja Johansen, asked the government to reverse. It stood over a whole page in Lofotposten in spring. More expensive and worse fishing ports, she feared. Allan Ellingsen, leader of the Nordland Progress Party, was the first to sign the opinion: the ports of fishing must remain a state responsibility – promoted and adopted by the county council in Nordland. Christian People's Party, by the group leader Arve Knutsen, and the Workers' Party, by the leader Bears Chirran, are also among those who have signed the statements. The West-Finnmark Regional Council has organised conferences with great concern for the future of the fishing ports. Nor does Nordland Fylkes Fiskarlag wish to change the responsibility for the fishing ports. And what are the tasks of the first counties? Exactly – no one has asked, namely the fishing ports. The work of the Coastal Agency on fishing ports planned for 2019 has been iced. It is also not possible for a county council to start planning a task it does not yet have and has not wanted. The county councils also do not know the financial framework attached to this task. Fishing ports such as Andes, Værøy and Røst are being extracted from NTP. The new fishing port in Andøy Municipality is a clear and large project. It's on the ice, the planning's stopped. The government has recently made other major misassessments on Andøya. When it becomes Andøya's turn to get the fishing port in place, no, it's going to get out of NTP. Galimatias, a term I heard used up there about this task transfer. And I can continue with Kjøllefjord, Gamvik, Vardø, Kiberg, Bømlo, Fosnavåg, Gjøsund – not all are mentioned. This does not mean that there is a plan for targeting the money to the counties of the fishing ports. The only thing we know is that the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation in the budget for 2020 will come back to the Stortinget with proposals on how to distribute the transfer between the new county municipalities in the framework grant. We're not particularly optimistic. In North Norway many fishing ports have lost much. The government has already made a reduction of 4 billion. DKK over four years, for example in Northern Ireland. The Coastal Plant has a solid competence in the development, operation and maintenance of these facilities. In addition, there is a clear strength that the Coastal Plant also possesses so-called nautical competence in planning processes. It is an important precursor in all port planning processes. We ask the government to keep the fishing ports under state control with the Coastal Agency as the owner and manager of the responsibility for planning, development, operation and maintenance. We are also asking the government to continue the system of state subsidies to municipal fishing ports, and we are asking the government to ensure that planned fishing ports in NTP are implemented in line with the Stortingen decision on progress in NTP. These are proposals that the Centre Party has been involved in promoting. The greatest fear I have is that the economic growth of the county municipalities will not grow in parallel with the responsibility for the fishing ports. I will take up the proposal we have with SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3074	The representative Siv Mossleth has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3079	I thank you for a good and committed contribution from the representative Mossleth. There's something about this thing about obviously being at home. The fishing ports, yes, all ports and fairways, are of course incredibly important for a country like Norway. Coastal traffic, the maritime route, plays a crucial role in both nutrition and passenger transport, and, in the opinion of the Swedish authorities, it should play an even greater role. The majority of the population have justified the transfer decision with increased local autonomy and more coherent regional transport planning and that the regions have already been responsible for subsidies to fishing ports. The majority, the government parties, say that it is important for the regions to be given extended responsibility for the fishing ports in order to ensure a comprehensive regional transport and nutrition planning. In a transport context, it is probably most comprehensive with a state responsibility. For SV, it is important that the major coastal transport years, as well as the national roads and rails, are under a state umbrella, just to take national account, to see the country in a national context and not just a regional context. The Coastal Agency has followed up the decision to transfer the planning of fishing ports to the new regions, which is thus taking place on 1 January 2020, as the Decision is available. They have completed the ports that were under planning, and further completed other, that is, new, planning work, as far as I have understood. As other speakers before me have said, it must in practice mean that from now on until the assumption of this responsibility for the regions, no planning work is taking place in this field. The need for the development of coastal fishing ports is great, and preparatory work related to the start-up of new ports takes several years. There are also many applications for grants – as we know – to municipal fishing ports. Will the actors now meet some sort of stopper in the system, some sort of resting system? The coastal works have had and have a very special competence for the planning of moles, ports and other sea-based construction works. SV shares the concerns of many environments that are afraid that the planning competence of the Coastal Works could be squandered when the tasks are moved to the regions, i.e. to the county municipalities. This is a very important point, and we've seen it in many fields of society up to now. It takes time to build up good trade unions, good specialized environments. Many suggest that there may be a lot of extra bureaucracy from this conversion. We may be talking about overlap and possibly double work, where the regions are sitting on each other's lap, or we should say we're floating in each of our little bays, and we're planning something of the same. SV believes that the State fishing ports, where the State has established guards and deepenings, etc., are an infrastructure that exists for the whole country, wherever they are located. Vessels resident in local, regional or national waters — in addition to foreign vessels — use them. This in itself should advocate national governance and a strategy for such deployments in order to achieve a coherent, properly dimensioned infrastructure. As far as I can see, this planned transfer from state to regional level does not involve any real tasks, other than that the regions get moles with a maintenance need of which one does not fully see the scope of. Nor does it seem to follow any competence on that load. On this basis SV is involved in proposals to leave the fishing ports responsible for the coastal works. I would also like to inform you that we support proposal No subsidized. 3, from the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3102	Let the priorities and implementations take place as closely as possible to the people affected – it is like the mantra of the whole regional reform, and the Left fully supports it. I had actually hoped that there were more in the opposition who supported it. We know that our two other government parties are opposed to regional reform as a principle, but I had hoped that both the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the SV were in order for us to shift power down to the regions, because that is when we can achieve a comprehensive regional transport and nutrition planning. It is clear that a county road to leave a fishing community can be planned at the same time as the port to be built there. Then it should be the same decision maker, i.e. the elected body – the county council, county council or regional council, which we may be given as names. With regard to the transition determined by the Storting itself in 2020, an advance mechanism has now been established which helps to speed up major fishing port projects. As I have seen, there is a great interest in using this scheme. The Council of State can certainly respond – when it comes to having its say – if it is possible to contribute to financing both municipal, municipal, business and state support when it is of great interest to do so, because it is a priority when there are more interests behind it. It was said here that there is very good competence in the Coastal Plant. That's for sure, they're probably very competent. The design planning is done by those involved, but not by the Coastal Administration itself. It is put out for tender, so there are entrepreneurs and professionals in this field who implement. The technical studies – which are under the control of the Coastal Agency during the planning process – are also very often outsourced to experts and experts in this area. The coastal works are certainly good at coordinating and implementing the projects, but there are many around them who have competence. I think it is important – clearly – to build up that competence in the new regions as well. At that time, the Coastal Agency must be involved in the transfer of their planning material – as is currently the case – to these regions and the new peoples. Yes, it may even be that the experts in the Coastal Works get a job in the regions. It may well be the same people — who have the high, good competence — who will implement this more closely in the region, but then under a political leadership that is at regional level.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3112	The Christian People's Party has previously signalled support for the proposal to transfer fishing ports from country to region. We did that together with the Center Party and the three parties that now make up the government, in the last period. In connection with the NTP, we did this together with today's government parties. We were also concerned about some of these issues when dealing with it in Stortinget. When the Municipal and Administrative Committee dealt with the issue of a new division of the regional population, we expressed, together with the Progress Party, the Right, Left and Center Parties, that the development of fishing ports and the organisation of broadband construction are naturally tasks and responsibilities of the new county municipalities. So it should be said that even if we signaled support for task transfer at the time, one should of course not be completely locked up until one gets to see the overall task portfolio of the regions. But we're not there today. We first have to see the problem portfolio. If the Christian People's Party is going to turn on this question, it has to be the result of an overall assessment where we see the problems together. We're not going to go into any reversal of the task shift right now. We want to be predictable and stand on what we have previously signaled. It would be unnatural if a representative proposal were to change it now without significant new elements inside the picture. What is important now is to ensure that the investment proposals contained in the NTP are followed up by the State, so that the adoption of the Stortinget is implemented. We also know that several municipalities and county councils have expressed the desire to advance investments in ports and fairways prioritized in NTP. We should and must be positive about that. The majority in the NTP setting last year also went in to ensure that the shooting would be possible, and we asked the government together to meet that type of shooting proposal. Exploitation of measures means that society is more rapidly triggered by the benefits of the action. Any transfer of responsibility for fishing ports must therefore not prevent the local advance of development. It is also important that the competence of the Coastal Agency in the planning, ordering and development of fishing ports is made available for the transfer of competence to the regions in a new organisation. The transfer to the regions must be carried out as smoothly as possible. Here we have to have good processes for the transfer of competences, and I can tell from the setting that the government parties are also concerned about this. That's good. There are differences between the counties in the amount of costs that will be incurred after any transfer of responsibility from the State to the new counties. Each project may have costs that are demanding to be lifted for the new regions. I do not think the main problem is that this should be phased into the regional budgets and plans, but the expenditure is distributed differently between the regions, and we must pay particular attention to that. It is important that we have a system that is fair and that takes into account the costs of fishing ports. The Christian People's Party will support the majority recommendation in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3127	We experience very exciting times in the Norwegian fishing industry. It's an industry that's generally driven by optimism, progress and big investment, and in recent years we've actually seen that there are more fishermen, not fewer. When one hears this debate, one should believe that one was about to lay down this industry. It is made that now everything is black, that no rate, that the government and others are completely uninterested in what is happening. So the fact is the opposite, and the results outside of this building show it. The kind of black paint that you've heard in the last few posts, I think is quite special, when reality can actually be measured out there. What this is about is how we are going to ensure that we develop the fishing ports we have in the best possible way. Given that a person has a sum of money – is it centralisation that should govern, or should there be local co-management on this? There the majority have said that they believe that state politicians, local politicians are better able to make those decisions than if one has centralised it somewhere. It's a little strange that those who are now criticizing us are the ones who in every other context warn against centralization. But in this particular area, local politicians should not have any influence, here the state politicians should not say anything, here one should sit in one office centrally and rule everywhere. I don't think that's a good approach. But no matter what one thinks is proper organization, at least I will distance myself from the rhetoric to the representative Ingelill Olsen, who gives the impression that this is because one doesn't care. No, this is about what we think is most useful. Let me remind you that very much of the competence on the port side today is competence that the Coastal Agency buys in the market – for planning, for implementation and for construction. There is a lot of good competence in the Coastal Works. It is not lost as a result of another organisation, but much of what you need specifically for the local projects gets a hold on the market anyway. Let me remind you that there are a number of ports in this country that are not fishing ports, which the State and the Coastal Agency are not in and out of control at all, and they also have a development. It's built on them all over the country. I cannot understand that it will be difficult for local politicians and local port managers to develop a port when they are able to develop other ports in the same region. One must stop looking so huge black at any change and pretend that if it's not going to be like it's always been, the option is a vacuum. That's not going to be the case. The alternative is more local decision-making and more local influence, and I also believe that we should actually rely on local politicians. It's a little strange to hear the Workers' Party and the Centre, which run many of these states that will now have increased influence over fishing ports, have so little confidence in their own local politicians. Although I still wanted to vote for the Progress Party in these states, I think that the Labour Party and the Central Party, too, if they get a responsibility, would be able to discharge that responsibility pretty well. They'd probably prioritize something other than the Progress Party sometimes, that's why we're different parties, but completely as distrustful as the Center Party and the Workers' Party communicates here, I don't actually find any basis for a person to have. So I just want to remind you that a lot of planning has been done. That planning work is not being put in a drawer, burned on a fire, thrown at the sea or anything. In fact, it will be handed over to the states that are given responsibility. So there's a transfer of competence here that the Center Party and the Workers' Party don't think should happen. The coastal body has already started working with the counties to ensure a good transfer of competence. It is a little strange that the criticism is promoted in the Storting when a person obviously has not had good and up-to-date information from his own representatives, who can tell that they have been in the Ministry of Transport, that they have spoken with the Coastal Agency, and that the process is underway, even though the mother parties in the main hall are against it. So we've written letters to the county councils, we've addressed this. It is important in a reform that the overlapping processes are doing well. I understand that one can be concerned about that situation, but we're going to do everything we can to make it not a problem. But to give the impression that this is going to be an eternal problem into the future is not a basis for that. I think it is important that we develop our fishing ports further, but I also think it is important that we further develop local democracy, that local politicians who are involved and who are going to be involved in developing a region should be given greater power over and a stronger hand on the steering wheel in terms of where investments are going. This is not a down-priority, but we believe it is a better decision-making process to develop local democracy and the local fishing ports.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3144	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3149	The coastal works have stopped planning fishing ports. It's a fact. Regions do not take over until 1 January 2020, and it may take four to six years to plan a port — also after information from the Coast Guard. This is the fact. This means in practice that we can get a gap in many years where there is no planning of new ports. The councils were just talking about a good overlap. The background to the Workers' Party having raised this question and submitted a proposal for which we hoped we could have a majority was precisely that we would have a good overlap period. My question is: will the Council of State do something to ensure that the planning and development of fishing ports is carried out in parallel and on a continuous basis, so that our fishing industry will have a better framework even in the years to come, and that we will not have a stay for many years?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3158	There is no reason to say that there will be a stay for many years because you have an overlap period, which is usually a few months. In that case, it would mean that you stopped doing something a long time ago. There has been continuous work on planning up until now, and the Coastal Plant is planning all the projects they are going to build. But it is natural that the projects taken over by the county councils are also taken over by the county councils on the planning side. That doesn't mean that everything needs to stop. The overlap phase, where the Coastal Works are now on the supply side, should be used to ensure that the work is taken over in a good way. So it's also a little strange to hear the Workers' Party say that really this would be very good. They were not really going to try to stop the reform, but when one of the proposals, proposal No. 3, assuming that the changes adopted by the Storting and implemented by the government are not to be implemented, it is, of course, to stop the reform. So here we see the same thing in the previous case: the working party is against any change in system and organization, even though the benefits are great.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3165	It's a fact that the Coast Guard has stopped planning. There is information from the Swedish Coast Guard Agency, and it is probably also known to the Minister. The regions do not formally assume this responsibility until 2020. Does that mean that the Minister intends to set the regions in motion to plan something for which they are not responsible, or how will he do so during this overlap period so that there will be no stay for many years? Because, as I said, planning a fishing port is complicated, a construction work under the sea is complicated. What should the Minister do to avoid having a gap for many years?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3170	Yes, it's important to build good ports, and it's important to look at complexity, so a build something that lasts. I note that many states have many ports that are not fishing ports that they can manage to manage. There are a number of ports here in the country that are being built without the Coastal Agency having them in its portfolio. It is a little strange that the Workers' Party gives the impression that that competence does not exist, that no one else knows how to build a port. It's obviously not right when you look at the world around us. I also said that the counties should not start re-planning projects that the Coastal Plant has had in its portfolio. The Coastal Plant implements the projects to be completed by 2020. But when responsibility lies with the states, it is natural that they have also been involved in preparing their projects. That overlap is being worked on. There are meetings between the Coast Guard and the states, and we have also had meetings on our part. We have to make sure that overlap period is going well. But what the Labour Party and the other opposition parties are doing here is trying to create uncertainty. It's trying to stop the process from moving on, and then many people are sitting on the fence unnecessarily, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3181	Our proposal is about fishing ports, and that is what we are trying to get an answer from the Minister. I record that he has not answered, and I ask the question again: what should the minister do to avoid getting a gap of several years where it is not yet planned ports before the regions take over? That's what's our point in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3186	As I have said several times: in the projects under construction, which are to be built in the next few years, there is also planning work going on. It's not in error, it's not stopped, it's not on the shelf. In the projects that counties are to assume responsibility for after 2020, there is an overlap process, and I have already said that the Coastal Plant is on the offer side and ensures that the planning work done so far is taken over by the counties, so that they can continue it. We have also, by sending letters to the states and others, helped to show how the process is, so we can clarify the uncertainty that is there. I record that what the opposition is now trying as best they can, is to get all the states to sit on the fence and not be in the process, hoping that this will stop, reverse and change. It is not to be a constructive contributor to resolving disagreements when trying to stop the whole thing. It is sad that the Workers' Party is constantly putting the brakes on the case by case instead of looking at how we can get more out of the resources and better local solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3193	With the experience gained by North Norway after the government parties were given the premise for the distribution keys and the financial framework, there is reason to fear that the economic growth of the county municipalities will not grow in parallel with the responsibility for the fishing ports. In fact, in Northern Ireland, the Progress Party is one of the parties that has inspired us to promote this proposal that the fishing ports should remain state-owned. What is it like for the Council of State to be so at a collision course with also its own party in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3198	The Progress Party is well behind the reforms that have been adopted and the way in which we are to implement them. Nevertheless, it is a little strange to hear the Central Party try again and again to create a picture that everything is bad and sad in North Norway during today's government, and that the local economy is miserable. I just remember that the municipal economy is actually the best in over 20 years. There have never been so few municipalities on the ROBEK list as just under our government. I also remember that it was the Center Party that in its time transferred the county roads to the county municipalities, without financing the work with them. Today, the Center Party is complaining about poor county economics on the county roads. But let me look at what this government has actually been directly responsible for, namely the highways. The major road allocations and investments in North Norway have tripled during today's government. The last one should wish for infrastructure in the north is to go back to when the Senterpartiet ruled the Ministry of Transport – both national roads and county roads expired. Now we've actually begun to sort out where the state has a responsibility, and we intend to continue with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3208	The Council of State did not respond to what it is like to be at a collision course with its own state in this matter. Seafood Norway is concerned that the competence of the Coastal Plant should not be squandered, and they believe that the Coastal Plant must continue the planning of new fishing ports, so that the counties do not have to start on a barbed hill. This is something that Olsen’s representative was also involved in – because the planning of fishing ports is now dead. Now it is 2018, and the county councils do not know the economic framework they will have until 2020 at the earliest. They say there's going to be a distribution in 2020, we'll know that in the budget. But in the time between the county municipalities get taken over, and now, it's dead. It has not been answered by the state council at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3215	Well, I've answered that a lot. I wonder if it's my ere dialect that makes it hard to perceive – I hope not. Let me try to read as much as I can at book goals: the counties will not have to start re-planning when they take responsibility in 2020. The Coastal Agency will assist in the transfer of planning responsibilities by providing the counties with access to the entire coastal planning portfolio as it exists. So one doesn't start on the bar. There are no proper claims that have come, either from the Workers' Party or from the Centre Party, in this case. It's about trying to blacken the situation as much as possible and trying to create uncertainty in local environments. I don't understand the intentions. One should try to help create optimism and progress. It is not strange that the county roads are due if this is the attitude of the Workers' Party and the Centre to be able to develop their own infrastructure. But I am very pleased that our government has shown that we are grasping the responsibility we have as politicians. We've tripled the bet on highways in North Norway, and we've increased the appropriations for the county roads far more than what was planned by the previous government. We can certainly do that with regard to fishing ports, if we get politicians who are visionary in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3226	It was Bengt Rune Strifeldt from the Progress Party that indicated that the planning of fishing ports has now stopped, and he said something like that it is good that we have put in place an advance system – a system in which municipalities can shoot fishing ports. The representative Count of the Christian People's Party was in on something of the same. But then I'm a little in the living room, because this was taken up by the Transport Committee in the examination of the National Transport Plan last spring. The Committee then asked the Minister for Transport about it, and he replied that local security needs to be clarified with the regional level. I quote from the reply to the committee: ‘In practice, this will only be possible after the new nationally elected level is established in 2020.’ My question is quite simply: Will the municipalities be able to advance the development of fishing ports in 2018 and 2019, as Strifeldt said? Or will they not do so, as the Minister for Transport has replied to the committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3236	We have said that in the case of fishing ports that are early in the NTP, one will be able to open up for deforestation, but then one will also have to deal with it in the usual way, just as when county councils will advance on the roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3241	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3248	As a representative from the coast, I must say that the debate is pleasing to my heart. There is great care for our coast, for the fishing ports, and I think it is very good that it is a great commitment. So it goes down along large sections of our coast, and we're optimists. Everyone knows what the primary position of the Right is in this matter. It is really that it has been superfluous to transfer the fishing ports to the county municipality, because our primary position is that we should not have the county municipality. There have been several people involved. However, once we have decided that we should focus on regional reform and that we should have regions in the future, we believe it is important and right that regional authorities should be given responsibility – more responsibility – and be able to make local assessments and plan according to local circumstances. Values from the sea are expected to grow violently in volume forward. Fishing ports have a very important role to play. The fact that the regions are then given extended responsibility for the fishing ports is also important in order to facilitate a comprehensive regional transport and, in particular, nutrition planning. Then I perceive that many are concerned about the environment of competence and the workplaces in today's coastal works. I understand that the Coastal Plant has enough to do, that they're going to have enough to do, and that the environment will continue. Now it is about building a fisheries-professional environment, a fishing port development environment in the new regions. They're the ones with local knowledge. I have great faith in regional and local politicians. It's those who know where the shoe prints, it's those who can see all the possibilities, and I don't share the pessimism that the opposition uses in this debate. I have great faith in the local politicians and that this will be carried ashore in a very good way in the future. I think the fishing ports and the coast are going to meet a golden age, even when the fishing ports are in regional ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3261	You can ask yourself why you have to change something that works well -- it's actually incomprehensible. What is actually the motivation for the Solvik-Olsen government – I kept saying – that is, the Right and Advance Party government, which has even received support from the Christian People's Party and the Left, to change this? Yeah, we have to wonder about that, because we don't get the answers. There is a great deal of care for the regional level, but we just got confirmed by the representative from the Right here that they really don't care about the regional level, because they really don't. So that's not what they care about. Then it must be the coast – but it is not either, because in the transport plan they have not prioritised the coast and the fishing ports. That's the real thing. What they've done is they've put almost all the priorities of the fishing ports into the last six years, knowing that when you get there, there's someone else who's responsible for this. And then you can think about what's really the motivation. Of the more than 20 ports in the transport plan, more than 16 are in the last six-year period. It's not a bet on the coast. It is not a commitment on the part of the state politicians that he cares so much about. Indeed, state policy already has a strong influence on priorities. They're not coming directly to the Storting. The country's policies have this carefully assessed and prioritised before moving forward in the transport plans. No, I'm sorry! I do not trust the grounds of Solvik-Olsen. It's not like that. So he's constantly trying to create a picture of the Workers' Party and the Center Party – he hasn't gotten any better during this year. He also wants to talk about the road, and I understand that when you don't bet on the coast. The picture isn't like he's trying to describe it. The picture is that we have a government that does not give priority to fishing ports. That's the right picture. Some people say we paint black – no, the black paint is the other one. Building fishing ports has a great deal of competence on the coast. It is said that it is okay for them to continue the work that concerns traffic controllers – the competence that they should be given – but not that of fishing ports. How the funding is going to be, we're not getting an answer to today. It creates a very high degree of uncertainty in the regions, because fishing ports are not built every year. There is also no equal need for this competence all the time. Here you choose a bad solution, and then you try to make a picture that someone is against something, when you're not. The truth is, we have a government that downgrades the fishing ports.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3284	The representative Ingarill Olsen gave a good picture of the Labour Party's both primary and secondary position in this matter. We had a rematch to try to find a solution that, after all, it should be practicable to implement. We do not have a lack of confidence in local and regional politicians, but the competence in design is not with the politicians. I understand that the government must find tasks for reform, but these tasks are not necessarily suitable for fragmentation. In the case of ports and fairways, such planning is complicated. This is a large undersea construction. In addition, people with the right skills do not thrive. Competence – and the need for it – is not evenly distributed across the country. That is precisely why we have proposed that the overall and highly competent environment of the Coastal Plant be maintained. In this way, regions will have good access to a highly needed competence. It is therefore disappointing that the position parties cannot support this proposal. Then we're going to hope that the new regions will be able to recruit enough people with the right skills, so that ports and fairways are well cared for and developed. It is not just money that is needed to secure the ports and the fairways. This could be seen in the way the representative, Mr Strifeldt, presented the views of the Party of Advancement.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3295	I have to remind you that the Labour Party's proposal was for the planning of fishing ports, not for the shooting of ports. That's a completely different thing. The fishing industry is doing great. That is why we want to maintain competence. This is not about a rematch on regional reform. It is not a matter of having several years in the planning, and construction works under the sea require special competence, as I said. Both Sjømat Norway and Norway’s Fiskarlag have stated that they fear the hibernation period that unfortunately will occur. They're the ones who live off the fishing industry, who say that. We in the Workers' Party will ensure overlap and that there will not be many years of stay in this. That's our motive. Solvik-Olsen said in the reply that the Workers' Party is promoting this because we hope to stop planning. It's a rule technique to assign other attitudes they don't have. I record that Solvik-Olsen masters that art, and I can assure you that I understand the dialect. The working party is closely involved in coastal areas and the development of fishing ports. I note that the rapporteurs on the coast are concerned, and that should also have been the majority. It is the government that has halved the transfer of funds to fishing ports in this budget, from 62 million. SEK in 2017 to 32 million. kr in 2018. It is the government that does not bet on the coast – not us. They also show it through the money they spend in the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3306	I am sorry that the Solvik-Olsen Council is trying to stamp all opposition as a black paint. That's not true. Of course, we have faith in the coast. What the representative Juvik said is more true, because actions along the coast were, throughout the last period, balancing posts for the government and were well below the level of the previous national transport plan. The contribution to fishing ports is only half the level promised by the Advance Party before the elections – the grant is halved from last year. The centre party wants a coastline, and we are working to raise coastal investment, so that we can ensure growth in these industries that are so important to the country. Having more district policy increases value creation. That's for sure. The centre party wants to strengthen the coast. In NTP, we will increase the framework for port and fairway actions by 30 million. kr more than the government, and we want to increase the subsidy item for fishing ports by 46,4 billion. in relation to the government. The Left and Christian People's Party unfortunately ensures a majority for lower ambitions than we had, and it's not right, what the representative Gruvan said, that the Central Party wants to transfer the fishing ports to the states. In the context of the regional reform, we had the same proposals as the SV and the Workers' Party – we did not want to transfer the fishing ports. In the case of the advance where 350 million can be granted. to ports and fairways, not so much has been said about the disadvantages of this. A prerequisite is that the applicant can assume responsibility for the completion of project planning and development, but then the applicant must take all the risks associated with all the necessary authorisations that are not available at the time of the agreement. For example, I am thinking about authorisations from environmental protection authorities. Nor has it been clarified by the government parties about, for example. ports for which the Andean fishing port may apply for this subsidy. That's not what the left-hand side says. We want to move competence out of Oslo, but we don't want to move competence from Vågan to Bodø.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3321	The reason why I took the floor was that I wanted to correct the picture that I think the opposition is drawing from this government and the bet on the coast and in the north: that we down prioritize, that it's a balancing post. I just want to make the Storting aware that it's going to suck along the coast. It's going down in the north. It's a business that never goes before, the fishing goes as never before, and there's less unemployment than ever. When you propose something new, you can get a sense that new is dangerous. It's natural that when you do new things, it creates some uncertainty in people. It's a natural reaction, and I respect that. It's not that everything is perfect, not political decisions, but you have a choice in such situations, and it's either to think that the glass is half full, or that it's half empty. I have faith in local politicians, I have faith in local competence, and I have faith in the coast. I'm a coastal optimist.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3331	I understand that the Right Representative from Northern Ireland needs to go up and defend his image or explain another picture. But it's just reading the transport plan. In the transport plan, we see black and white, these government parties have given priority to fishing ports. He knows it very well himself, Finstad, for he lives in an area where the fishing port is waiting, precisely because of this government. And it's not just Northland, it's all along the coast. As I said, 16 of the 20 projects – if I remember correctly, but at least around it – are in the last six years. That's because you didn't find any space for them. Something else has been given priority. You really want to stand here and talk about it today, but you don't really say what's going on with the fishing ports. The counties now have to live in uncertainty, because it is not clear how this is to be financed. The majority try as best they can, by writing that it is necessary to find ‘a model of distribution that is perceived as fair and reasonable in view of the need for good and safe coastal fishing ports’. The challenge is that the feeling and the need have been there, we know that. When we dealt with the transport plan, we knew what the need was along the coast. And we also know the answer from this government – it does not give priority to the fishing ports. What you are doing now, after you have not given them priority, is giving them to the counties, where the fishing ports have to fight with other means of prioritizing them. And we know that these are expensive installations. If you are unhappy and get hurt and have to start repairing this, it is about large sums that need to be done. You can try to make a picture – but the picture is that we have a government that has deprived the fishing ports.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3340	The representative Siv Mossleth has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3345	The note shall be short. When I listen to the representative Finstad, you can actually believe that it is government – this government, the Right and the Government Council of Solvik-Olsen – that the cod comes into Lofoten to spawn, that it is government's profit that the sun rises, and that it is government's profit that the coast, North Norway, is a part of the country full of resources that we need to exploit.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3352	At the risk of this being heard more as a local debate than it really is, namely how we are going to facilitate the large resources provided by the sea and given to this nation by the coast, precisely to finance welfare benefits: it is in the context of the discussion of this matter, and it is in the context of which many are concerned when it has now been proposed to move this task to the county municipalities. It's not like the representative of Finstad said that people are just worried. It is a fact, as others have said, that the planning of fishing ports has stopped. Then it becomes a little strange to hear some representatives say that it is just relaxing, this is all right. It's not safe. You should have respect for those who now see – not just feel, but actually see – that their projects stop or are shifted. Then we have to put it into the historical context. If we see any government budgets back under this government, the Coastal Plant is the area that has been down-priority within the national transport plan, one of the areas that has not been able to meet. It has been clear to the Council of State, even though he has boasted that the national transport plan has been overrun. The fact that it goes well along the coast, that many want to take advantage of the opportunities that lie there, and that you want to invest and get further development when you see the development forecasts that are now available, should not surprise you. And it's precisely when the state should have set up, ensuring that this particular competence that the Coastal Agency possesses was continued, ensuring that the money came on the table – just to get the investment projects started, so that you stood better equipped to take care of the great values that lie along the coast. It goes as it laughs, and the representative Mossleth was in an exemplary way into how someone tries to take credit for something they can't take credit for. The krone price has been favourable, and it has been the highest fishing quota of the time – it is the sum of many things that make things go well along the coast. It's not the profits of any single government or individual representative, it's the sum. I think that we're going to be a little humiliated about -- that the people who live out there want to take advantage of all the possibilities now that they're lying there. For the coast has not just been over-prioritized or wasted after them when they have come with their absolutely necessary projects in order to contribute to the great value creation that they have historically had and that they will hopefully also have in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3363	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3379	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3388	First, let me thank the Committee for its good cooperation in the consideration of this proposal for a representative from several representatives of the Central Party on the State takeover of the guarantee of toll loans. It is an objective that toll financing costs should be as low as possible. Toll reform is therefore also being implemented, which will mean fewer toll companies and more efficient collection and administration. It is also worth noting that in the national transport plan 2018–2029, growth comes primarily in the form of state resources, which actually reduces the relative share of tolls. The cost of financing is an important cost element and possible cost reductions are the main argument of the proposers when they now propose that the State take over the guarantee liability for national toll loans. In its letter to the Committee, the Council of State shows that county guarantees have almost equivalent security to State guarantees, and that there is little to be recovered from cost reductions by the State taking over this guarantee liability. At the same time, we note that several county councils express concern that the total guarantee liability of the county councils gradually becomes so extensive that it may affect the county councils' overall credit rating and borrowing costs. The fact that there is now an increased guarantee liability is, of course, a positive issue – the fact that so many new ways are being built that this will be a discussion and a topic. The system of county guarantees has been a long-term practice and is established to give legitimacy to the Norwegian toll model and to ensure the best possible loan conditions. This mechanism has been in force under different policyprinciples over the years. Historically, this was probably of great importance, as some of the projects could be implemented more quickly by means of toll financing. Now we see that toll financing has become a more established part of the national transport plan, and that toll sub-financing is more planned in the construction of large road projects. In addition, a large part of what used to be national roads has been transferred to county municipalities through the administrative reform in 2010. What is now left as national roads are mainly European roads and important tribal roads. It is still important that toll-funded projects are anchored by local authorities, municipalities and counties, through specific decisions. The question is whether it is still appropriate for county councils to provide guarantees for national toll loans or whether the State itself should take that responsibility. For this reason, the majority of the Committee, consisting of the Right, the Advance Party and the Left, have asked the government to assess whether the system of county guarantees is appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3413	I would like to thank the Central Party for a good proposal. Let it be clear: toll collection, administrative and financing costs shall be as low as possible. Important reforms have been implemented to improve the efficiency of the tolling sector. However, it is also the case that several county councils express great concern about the overall guarantee liability and its possible consequences for the financing of the county's other activities. The size has decided to invest heavily on national roads and is addressing an increasing number of toll proposals on county roads. Therefore, there should be good reason for the Storting to see that the county council's concerns are real and that they need to be taken seriously. The Government Parties point out that the system of granting county guarantees for toll loans has been a long-standing practice for both county and national road projects, both to give legitimacy to the Norwegian toll model, to give local anchoring and to achieve as favourable loan conditions as possible. This is far from right, but it should not prevent us from seeing that the time now may be ripe to change this system. In the response of the Council of State to the Committee, it is pointed out that municipal and county guarantees are considered to be very safe and that no better loan conditions can be expected with State guarantees. The working party thinks this is wrong. The state has a high level of liquidity and, in the worst case, it will not have a lower loan condition than the county authorities currently have. We also believe that the local anchoring is clear enough, even in the decisions they take on local access, and that it is important that the state guarantees its own roads. I would like to mention proposal No. 1, 2 and 3 from the minority, which is here the Workers' Party and the Center Party, where we ask the government to take care of State assumes guarantee liability for existing national toll projects future toll projects provide a basis for State guarantees; and reduced borrowing costs resulting from State guarantee benefits to road users. After all, it is positive that the majority asks the government to assess whether it is appropriate for the county to continue to provide a guarantee for toll loans.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3440	Then the representative Kirsti Leirtrø has taken up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3445	I can also start by thanking the Centre Party for raising an important issue. But I have to say that it is very interesting that the Central Party, which has been involved in introducing today's toll regime – which has introduced and followed the system that county councils guarantee, all the years they put in government – will now suddenly do something about it to change that system. What did the Center Party do when they were in government? They did nothing, they took no initiative, as they have now taken in opposition. But what has the Right and Advance Party, and the Left – and Christian People’s Party – done while we have been in government for nearly five years now? We've actually done a lot. The share of tolls in new road projects is falling. Before we got into government, it was common for it to be over 50 pst, now it's under 50 pst. There has been a significant growth in public funding for road projects in the national transport plan and there is a significant growth in road construction. We have implemented and implemented a toll reform that leads to smaller administrations and lower toll tariffs. One example is that in the past there were 50–60 bombers – for every small road bump to be built, it was a separate bomber with its own board, which would have meeting compensation, serving, food, dividends, travel compensation and one after the other. Just in little Hedmark, my county, there were three toll companies. Now we have cut it down to only five companies – five regional toll companies – and this has led to a significant increase in efficiency, so that a substantial part of the cost now goes to pay tolls instead of paying red tape and administration. The toll compensation scheme for established toll projects adopted in the NTP leads to lower toll rates. That's what we're going to use. 6 B.C.E. kr. We have also completed some toll projects where there were high collection costs. But still we're willing to do more, and that's exactly why we've promoted our proposal where we want to see if this is a sensible arrangement as it's organized today, or whether it's going to change. The government will come back later, at an appropriate time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3458	I would first like to thank the Advocates-General for their good work, and also for the fact that there was a proposal that came to our attention. The centre party has set up a system that several county councils now have a say in getting a change of. The fact that county councils and municipalities have to provide a guarantee for borrowings in the construction of national roads is a mechanism that has subsequently been involved in making the guarantee liability for borrowings and the advance of toll revenue very demanding for county municipalities. It is untimely, and it has unfortunate consequences for the states and municipalities, who have subsequently been sitting with a great guarantee responsibility for something they do not own, and also have no right to have access to. So there's going to be a total loan take-up connected to national roads and urban packages of about 57 billion. kr at the end of 2018 and a total of 133 billion has been foreseen in the national transport plan. kr in external financing of projects and actions to be implemented during the planning period. So this is essentially tolls. After 1 January 2019, it will be about 125 billion. kr expected to be toll contribution in the road project. In one case, we have imposed an additional loan guarantee of 3 billion on Hordaland County Municipality today. kr to another highway. In addition, we have taken decisions earlier this year on two bombing packages that jointly charge the County of Hordaland with a guarantee liability for snaue 10 billion. kr. The centre party believes that with the large amount of toll financing received in the construction of state roads, it is unthinkable that counties and municipalities should guarantee these borrowings. And it never happens, or very rarely, that the guarantee liability is released – this is because the financing facility is solid, due to large margins of security in the traffic and interest cost estimates. The deposit may also decide to increase the collection period or to adjust the tariffs, if one is at risk of being required to release the guarantee. On the other hand, triggering the guarantee would have major negative consequences for the guarantor, who is state and municipality today. The state is more likely to release the guarantee without affecting the provision of services to people than does the regional or local level of government. The centre party believes that it is natural that the person who adopted the toll collection and the rules for the collection, and who is the owner of the project, should be responsible for the guarantee. So it's a little strange to hear Mr. Johnsen ask questions about our proposal because we've been helping to facilitate today's toll regime. It is no wonder that the party of Johnsen, the Progress Party, has said that they should remove all the trees on the roads if they came into government. The centre party is pleased that it can now appear that there will be a decision that is positive with a view to entering and looking at it. We believe that it is reasonable to assume that a State guarantee would provide better loan terms than a county municipality or municipal guarantee, and that such a guarantee could reduce the toll collection. For us, it is essential to ensure that the county councils are able to take responsibility for their state roads, and then the state has to take responsibility for its national and European roads. The Central Party therefore supports the proposal put forward by the representative of Kirsti Leirtrø.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3477	I'm going to, on a slow, warm night like this try to iron out a couple of sections to avoid repeating previous points, so the flock can get out into the sun. SV has registered the response of the Council of State to the Committee and that is important. Reference is made to the fact that the municipal and county guarantees are considered very safe and that no significantly better loan conditions can be expected with State guarantees. SV nevertheless acknowledges that the Workers' Party and the Centre have a point when they write that it is: ‘Unfortunately, and that it has unfortunate consequences for the counties and municipalities when they collect the loan amounts being reduced, and that one is sitting with a guarantee liability for something not owned.’ But I expect the room to know SV's attitude to the local economy. We have increased the framework of the municipalities and county councils in our alternative budgets, both the non-labelled – i.e. the framework – and all earmarked posts in the budgets of the county municipalities. We want both the local economy and the county community economy well, but SV also believes that the county guarantee contributes to strengthening the local anchoring of the road projects, and that the county municipalities prioritise and make thorough assessments of which projects should be given priority, thus gaining an additional interest in the profitability of the projects being financed. Here we are at the heart of the case for the SV part. Everyone knows the main background to this proposal, namely that the county councils in the West have got some cold feet after summing up the guarantee need for the large fjord crossings in the ferries-free E39 project. Then some people can breathe and shake their heads a little bit about the representative Nävra coming back with this, because the Storting knows well, and the Council of State is well aware of what SV thinks about this giant project – the ferry-free E39 – but that is the background for these proposals to come up with. I have a great deal of understanding that it is challenging for local authorities to be the guarantor of a giant project – such as a project. Rogfast – when there are several factors pointing towards poor investment. However, SV believes that the solution to this and similar cases is not to let the State take over the responsibility, but rather to reconsider the profitability and rationality of the entire project. SV would therefore like to maintain the current system for county guarantee to be in force until at least large profits have been expected from the transfer of responsibility to the State. The principle is linked to the extent to which the benefits of road projects are to have versus collective and railway projects. The system of toll financing already makes it extremely advantageous for the states to give priority to road ahead of track because there is a much greater chance of it coming. Roads provide the funding models that have been used in recent years. State involvement in railway projects is much more difficult and costly than road projects. Removing the county guarantee on road projects removes yet another obstacle and gives an additional incentive to the counties to prioritize the road ahead of the railway. It is this that is behind SV's position, and it is important to be told in order to understand our view, which is basically for both decentralised policies and the strengthening of county and municipal economies. For a batch that wants the railway to connect the country – and not the four-field motorways – these are important considerations to arrive at. Some people have to give priority, and it's best if the county councils do it on their own. The SV will therefore vote against the proposal and also the recommendation from the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3497	We in the Christian People's Party think it makes sense, what the majority of the Committee now proposes. The Christian People's Party supports the approach adopted by the majority, and it actually surprises me a little bit that the red-green parties are not involved in the proposal promoted here by the majority. I understand that someone would have liked to have adopted their original proposal, but here I believe that the Committee has done a good job in dealing with the proposal for a representative and come up with a good proposal for a decision that raises the matter further. There is a most relevant issue raised here. I want to take the opportunity to give praise to the Center Party for addressing the matter, but it will not be right for the Christian People's Party to support the proposals as they were originally promoted. It is important that we put this matter into context, and we need to put in place a solid professional basis, look at the consequences of what we are doing, before we decide, if necessary, to make some changes. I believe in the Council's response letter to the committee. We need a little bit more meat on our legs and to see it in a context, so I also understand that he's adding up. But I will already signal that we on the part of the Christian People's Party will see very positively any changes, if this can lead to less burden on the county councils and that the consequences are otherwise reasonable and tolerable. I think it is good to have an assessment of whether it should still be such that county councils should provide a guarantee of national toll loans. After all, it is in the proposal itself that when a government’s assessment is requested, it sends a signal at the same time that a person wants a change from today’s system. Now it's uncertain how much it is to pick up a scheme purely net economic. We think it's right for the majority to write in the vote, and as the Council of State has in its reply, that both municipal and county guarantees are considered very safe, and it is not certain that the state will achieve any particularly better loan conditions. But this is primarily for us in the Christian People's Party about a different burden-sharing. That's what this is about. There are many county councils that are now giving signals that the totality of the guarantee liability is becoming too large, and it can also have an impact on the loan conditions they achieve overall and over time. Anyway, I think it makes sense to look at a possible change here, so that the state can somehow get stronger on the track, and that we can get to a different burden distribution than what is the situation today, in terms of national roads. The local and regional anchoring is then managed in other ways, so that they are still involved in the major projects that go through the regions concerned. The Christian People's Party will then vote in favour of the Committee's recommendation on this matter and against the minority proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3512	It is good that we build a lot of roads in this country. The increase has been significant in recent years. There are now more than 50 major road projects under construction, a much larger number of small ones, and not least we have started to reduce the downturn on the road network. So that means that we've doubled the road maintenance in appropriations, and it notices you when the weather gets good and the machines get out of the way. Most of the increase in bet also comes from increased appropriations. In fact, in the national transport plan 2018–2029, the level of tolls is lower than that in the national transport plan from the previous government, while there are increased appropriations that take up the promise. I represent a party that's against tolls, because that's a precious way to finance the way. In the government, we have not been given a majority to remove everyone, even though it has been a battle cause, but we still have a lot to show that makes the toll ratio now lower than the previous government had added, and the drivers get more money. In the road reform we presented in 2015, on the right track, we proposed both measures that would allow us to build a road better and cheaper, through New Roads and the State Road Service, and also a reform of the toll sector, so that the tolls that you pay in actually go for the purpose. We already see the results. The toll percentage has fallen. When we took over in 2013, the toll ratio on invested funds was over 40 p.m., in recent years with red-green government. In 2018 it is expected to be below 30 pst. That means the state takes more responsibility. The interest rate is significantly lower now, in the portfolio, than it was when we took over. Now the interest rate after the last numbers we got is less than 2 pst. The administrative costs have fallen, so the share that goes to the administration is lower, and we are now implementing a reform where the operating organisations assume that each project has its own organisation, so that we now have five toll companies in total. We have also proposed a subsidy scheme that will help reduce the cost of tolling the drivers. It did not get a majority in the Storting in the first round. The proposers, who are now suddenly concerned with the fares for the drivers, voted against using government money to reduce the tariffs. So deep did it. But together with the Left and Christian People's Party, we have been given a grant scheme that has made it so far used around one billion. to reduce toll tariffs. The majority of the opposition parties are still opposed. Thus, this debate here appears to be a little bit of a shivering, rather than a pain in the Advancement Party, rather than an effort to find solutions, when one has tried to stop these earlier. For the drivers, we now see that you get 20 psts evenly over. Discount on toll chips, against 10 pst. before. In more than 40 toll projects, one now receives subsidies from the state, which means that several places lower the tariffs by 10 pst. That's an advantage. Summary: Today, there are lower toll rates, lower toll rates, increased discounts, less administrative costs and lower interest rates on tolls. We haven't gotten rid of them, but I want to say that this direction is far better than the direction we saw in the last eight years – when the toll ratio increased from around 32 pst. in 2005 to over 40 pst. in 2013, and there were no reforms, no grant schemes and no discussion on State guarantee. The proposals that now seem to have a majority today are proposals I take with me in our work further. It is natural for us to consider how we can ensure that the county councils do not have an unreasonable burden on the toll guarantees they provide. At the same time, it is important to remember that county councils are often the initiators of toll projects, in order to raise projects in their counties, and as part of the overall priority being given, it is one of the elements that has been highlighted earlier. It's important to bring it with you. Because that's the way you think about it in the next national transport plan, you also have to keep it in mind. But the purpose of the Senterpartiet stated in its original proposal, namely that one believes that government guarantees can provide lower borrowing costs – this is nothing to suggest when we now see how far down we have got the loan costs. So we've been able to fulfill what was originally the purpose of the Center Party, and we've done that because we're actually busy having low toll costs and low tolls. It's a bit of this government's policy, and then it's always nice when we see results. Although the Progress Party has not managed it alone, it is important that we have found good compromises with which I believe all four parties on the civil side are satisfied.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3534	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3539	I note that in the response of the Council of State to the Committee there are some discussions about this issue. But the concerns of the county councils are not commented on or answered. There are some county councils that are now beginning to get high when it comes to guarantee liability, and there is a narrowing of their own bets. Does not the Council share those concerns, and does it not see that it may be necessary to look at other ways of financing these investments?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3544	In the original proposal of the Centre Party, it was primarily the drivers and tariffs that one was concerned about. Now I hear that there is another argument that has come in instead. I am concerned that the counties should have the minimum burden due to tolls, and I am concerned that the drivers should have the minimum load. This is precisely why the government has proposed reforms. That is precisely why we have promoted the grant scheme – which the centre party has unfortunately voted against, so the concern has not been as strong. But now it's a clear signal from the majority that we're going to work on this. I'm doing that job with joy. Everything about reducing tolls, both for county guarantee liability and for driver's wallets, is a job I take, and I smile when I'm going to do it. And I hope that the Central Party on the next reform will support it, instead of always voting against it and then going out to complain.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3551	The centre party supports all reforms that have a purpose and are wise. Then there are some reforms that we are asking critical questions about. What we in the Center Party are busy about – and also a joint committee, all except SV, have said here – is that we want to have an assessment of this. The plural setting is about to challenge the government and the state council for an assessment of the State guarantee liability. How quickly does the Council of State see that it can be done and, where appropriate, implemented?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3558	I'm going to jump into that work as fast as I can, when the Storting gets made that decision tonight. I see well that we can get a lot of work done on this in 2018 – also reported back. But the natural consequences here are that it's seen in the NTP. Let me just stress that part of the toll loans, especially those made under the previous government, are interest rate hedges on. That means that you have a liability over some years on what the interest rate is. So if the state were to just take over them, it would mean that you had to buy out of an agreement, and it has costs. That's why these things have to be considered, so that the winnings don't go into the spinning and we might lose out on this. That the reform we have promoted – on the right track – was sensible, I would say absolutely. New roads have probably saved us 30 billion. kr, on OPS we have saved more than 1 billion. kr only on Elverum, and the toll subsidy would actually give lower fares to the drivers two years earlier than what we achieved. I'm recording that the Center Party voted against everything.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3567	The proposals made today by the Labour Party and the Centre Party should not be unknown to the Council of State. When he was a new councillor, he wrote to the Stortinget: «State guarantee for loans raised for development projects is another measure that will contribute to significantly lower interest rates in many projects.» The council said to Stavanger Aftenblad on 21 October 2013: ‘In the case of Ryfast only, new and better loan terms could save billions of cars’. Then I wonder, what has happened since 2013 since he is so clear that there will be no savings? Was Stortinget misinformed in 2013?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3582	The size was not misinformed, but it has been four years since that answer was given. During that time, the level of interest rates has fallen significantly, I also mentioned it from the pulpit. Only in the last year has the interest rate come down to less than 2 pst. And so we've achieved exactly what we wanted. What's sad is that the Center Party is not concerned with following the history here and dealing with the facts and the suggestions, but uses the toll more like an irritating Frp. It's very little constructive, because you don't get any results with it. But I would like to remind you of the grant scheme we promoted in 2015. Instead of talking about warranty liability to the state, which we didn't see giving so many results, we proposed a grant scheme to bring down the fares for the drivers. The Senter Party voted against that. So here's one of them, and they're wondering what's happened since 2013. Well, the Central Party has been largely opposed to all reforms that had meant lower road construction costs and lower car fares. Now one should suddenly come and be concerned about the problems that one could have been involved in solving.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3589	I strongly disagree with the answer given. The fact that interest rates are lower now than they were then is an expression that interest rates have fallen. So the difference of the reduced interest rate that results from reduced risk is the same either interest rate is 2 pst., 5 pst., 8 pst. or 15 pst. It must be that in 2013, the Council of State thought there was a difference in the security that would give rise to the loan amount, and then my question is: Why has he gone away from this, and is this really because the Minister of Transport has lost the internal fight against his own Finance Minister, Siv Jensen from the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3594	I never think the Central Party will admit that the Progress Party has got anything in government, but it's still a fact that the interest rate level is significantly lower now. As I wrote in a letter to the Committee, one considers it so that there is nothing to go about transferring that guarantee liability from state to state. We've given that answer. The representative Pollestad must dislike it, but that's the way it is. However, I note that all the instruments promoted by the government, which would mean lower costs for building a road and lower fares for the drivers, have been voted against by the Senterpartiet. What's more interesting is not that the Center Party has been sleeping an hour for four years and is asking questions today about what has happened since 2013, but why the Center Party itself has not been involved and tried to get involved when matters have been dealt with in the Stortinget. Why have reforms been undertaken to save the state and the drivers for billions of dollars? Why have subsidy schemes been opposed that would save the car lists for billions of toll crowns?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3601	I record that I am not getting an answer to my question, and then I should rather ask a little about the proposal for a decision that might be likely to have multiples today, where a minister of commerce asks to reconsider this. In the letter of reply to the Committee, the Council of State writes that the Ministry of Transport has thus assessed the State guarantee for several rounds. Then my question is: if one in several rounds has already assessed it, and then makes a new decision today that says that one should reconsider it, does the Council of State believe that this assessment will give a different conclusion to what has come out of previous assessments?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3608	Here, the representative Pollestad has to take over what was the outcome of this. The assessments that you made earlier were if you were to do something about the warranty liability, so that you got a lower borrowing rate, which in turn meant lower fares for the drivers. There was the answer no. Now there is more focus on transferring the guarantee liability, and this means that county councils get better out of the total guarantee obligation they have. Then the answer can be yes very quickly. So once again, someone has another problem where you're going to look at what the guarantee liability can solve. I thought that was quite obvious from the debate that has taken place. Once even the Central Party has raised the issue of the telematics and actually went away from tariffs to be more concerned with the county municipalities, as the representative Oddnes was, the question is a little special – when one cannot distinguish the outcome of the two different assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3614	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3621	In the view of the Centre Party, it is important that the State assumes the guarantee liability for toll loans taken up to finance national roads. This case has a principle and a practical side. In the view of the Centre Party, the principle side is that it is wrong that the municipalities and municipalities should provide a guarantee when the state builds roads. It is also a reality that the state is rich, while the counties and municipalities have a relatively economic impact. The practical side is that the State guarantee will lower interest costs – if one trusts the government council's signal earlier – and thus reduce the toll charge for the car list. There must be a target with at least possible tolls. At least that's for the Center Party. Saka has also been more important when you look at the enormous growth that has been taking place in tolls in recent years. Caristics pay more in tolls every year, toll companies grow year after year, and there is a high pace by the Minister of Transport when it comes to presenting new toll projects to the Stortinget. When the toll level is so high, we have to think again. It is a pity, therefore, that the Right Party and the Progress Party in this matter want to use their power to stop the Central Party's proposal for a representative. The Minister of Transport was in the beginning of his career as the Council of State agreed with the Central Party in this matter. In Stavanger Aftenblad on 21 October 2013, the Council of State said: ‘In the case of Ryfast only, new and better loan terms could save billions of cars’. Governments also report the following to Stortinget in response to written questions: «State guarantee for loans raised for development projects is another measure that will contribute to significantly lower interest rates in many projects.» This is an expression that the Progress Party is very busy talking about doing things, but a lot of things are symbolic. We have heard the representative Johnsen today say that there are five toll companies in Norway. We have listened to the Council of State saying that one is on the way to getting five toll projects. He's been on that road for five years. It is my clear impression that the Progress Party has been in love with tolls. In any case, I expect that if the Progress Party goes against the proposal of the Centre Party today, it must end everything that the Progress Party is against tolls, because it has nothing troubling.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3644	The central party brings forward this proposal for a representative in the light of our concern about the total guarantee liability and the burden on the county councils. I'm sorry if the Council of State and the Progress Party feel that we are doing this to plague them. In fact, proposals are coming to the county councils with a gradually very high guarantee burden for state roads and road projects. I note that unfortunately we do not get a plurality for the Workers' Party and the Center Party's proposal in the Chamber today. For this reason, as an explanation of vote, including on behalf of the Labour Party, I would say that if our three proposals were to be voted on, we would subsidized to support the majority proposal to the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3651	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3668	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, six line changes be made in response to statements by members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3677	Thank you to the representatives of the Left for raising an important issue, and thank you for your cooperation within the Committee in the work on this proposal for a representative. It has taken some time, simply because the Committee has had a certain need to seek information about this new technology. The proposal from the Left concerns the establishment of several smaller pilot projects using blocks to replace public databases. Blocks are a relatively new way of collecting and managing information that allows information sharing in a different way from today. Some technological environments in Norway believe that in the short term technology can provide more efficiency, better security, greater transparency and better interaction in the public sector. In the autumn of 2017, the Ministry of Municipal and Modernisation took the initiative of a study on blockbuster technology to identify the potential and potential for use of this type of technology in Norway, with a focus on the public sector. The study Distributed Truth was submitted in March 2018. The study shows that blocking technologies also have a potential in Norway, and points out that technology offers more opportunities to manage information also as a cooperation between public and private actors. Technology can provide better quality information and open up new business models that we do not know about today. As individuals, citizens can gain greater ownership and control of their own data. Many suggest that blockage technology can initially be adapted to existing and existing legislation. Privacy rules create some challenges, but most of them seem to be solvable. The majority of the Committee, the representatives of the Right, the Party of Advances and the Left, point out that the Council of State wrote in its letter of 3 April: ‘Based on the recommendations of the report, we will assess in the near future whether there is a basis for launching public sector block technology pilot projects and, if so, how best to do so. Ultimately, however, national and local authorities will have to decide whether to apply block-barring technology because it brings benefits in terms of lower costs or improved quality.’ We are pleased that the government focuses on the opportunities offered by the digitisation of public services, and also refers to the Jeleia platform, where the government will assess how blockade technologies can provide the basis for new value creation. It is important to be open to new technological solutions that can improve the provision of services to citizens and that can help to improve the efficiency of the public sector. Then it is reassuring that a study has already been carried out of the possibilities and potential of blockade technology and that this is a priority area of government. An important part of this work will be to assess the current pilot project, which the government has announced will take place in the near future. The majority of the Committee therefore sees no need to impose or take decisions in an area where the government is already well-informed. Blocking technology is exciting, and we look forward to testing this out in the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3699	«Blocks» translated from the English term «blockchain» are probably all heard of the result, but as the representative of the place said, most of us do not know the technology behind it. Technology has been developed with the intention of extracting bitcoin, but technology is suitable for much more, in fact also to solve tasks that today pose some major challenges in information sharing, verification and storage of trust-based trade and personal information. There are great opportunities for technology to strengthen privacy in an advanced technological age. Such verification has been deficient in the new, digitized world in which we live. What do I mean by that? We know, for example. that health information on the roads may constitute a breach of privacy. This also means that, for example: digital trading in properties may be hacked by outsiders. With blockade technology, there is a lot of evidence that access to public archives can be digitised without – so far – there is a risk that someone might break in and read or change the information that lies there, without legal access, or without it becoming visible that they have read it. In Norway we have not come very far in this area. Although we are at the forefront of the digitalisation of society in Norway, blockade technology has not been used to any particular extent, at least not in the public sector. The working party believes that in the public sector there is a particularly high potential for the use of this technology. Deloitte, who conducted the government investigation, even believes that blockages can lead to significant efficiency and savings in the public sector. They're actually giving an estimate of about 15 billion. kr annually, approximately 10 years in advance. This is obviously a number to which there is considerable uncertainty, but there is in any case an interesting indication of the potential. The same investigation underlined the need to facilitate extensive experimentation here in Norway. Other countries have done a part in this area, and the Labour Party believes that we should learn from the examples and follow the advice of the investigation. Therefore, we believe that it makes sense to launch smaller pilot projects using blockade technologies, for example. for public databases provided by proposers. However, it is important to make a thorough and comprehensive assessment of the best-suited databases, with a high level of emphasis on the possibility of increased safety, improved user involvement and cost savings. I would like to take up the proposal from the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV who are in the position, and hope that it will have a majority in the Chamber. Finally, I record that the Left has reached the peak of power when they now choose to vote against their own proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3716	The representative Øystein Langholm Hansen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3721	I would first like to thank the President and the proposers, Trine Skei Grande, Ketil Kjeseth and Carl-Erik Grimstad, for addressing this important matter. The centre party supports the proposal in the document and is aware that the development and use of the technology are now being speeded up to extract the effects of the digital databases that the public has on facilitating work and improving interaction across the sections. Blocks are a relatively new technology, which opens up for the distribution of digital information, which in the universal databases can be controlled without a centralised bureaucracy. The Central Party believes that it is important – as it says in the proposal – that one implements several pilot projects using blocks as a replacement for or a complement to public databases, and that one now confirms from Stortinget that the government can start these pilot projects. Technology is still at an early stage, but there is no doubt that technology will have a major impact both in the public and private sectors. Today, as the proposers see it, there is an extensive use of databases in the Norwegian public sector, where, for example, the health sector uses around 58 000 health-related databases. Another example is that when people are going back to work, they do not have access to the information stored in the archives of the individual etats involved around a person who is in work training. This is a breakdown of information, which prevents good flow of information and leads to greater administrative costs and frustration both for those who are going to help return to work and for those who are going to be the good helpers. The centre party is, therefore, in agreement with the proposers, which believe that blockbuster technology can be a possible solution to this challenge, but that the public has not been at the forefront when it comes to using blockbuster chains. The centre party is therefore involved in the proposal that has now been drawn up by the representative Langholm Hansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3734	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteurs from the Gunnes party. It's a very important proposal. That it came on the agenda, maybe it was time, because even though blockade technology is at a very early stage – as many have said – it has been a applied technology in some fields for some years. But we have to say – as many have said – that it is of course a technology that has gone under the radar of most people here in the country. It's not exactly blocked we're talking about in the lunch break or maybe over a glass of cold white wine in the summer heat, I would say. There is still considerable uncertainty about the development and potential of this technology. It's also healthy, I guess -- there should be some scepticism for such unknown technologies. Then it is good that we got the investigation from Deloitte – as others have pointed out – and that technology can have a high potential for saving and efficiency in the public sector. When it was suggested about 15 billion. kr annually – in ten years’ time – we don’t know how much it’s somehow taken out of the air, and what kind of basis they have to say it, but at least it tells something about the potential of this technology. The study found more than 100 examples internationally where attempts to use or develop these technologies in the public sector are under way, among others. Sweden. It is clear that the public sector has a particular responsibility to be in the forefront in terms of digitisation and efficiency. If the public is not obsessive about using new and cost-saving technologies where possible and reasonable, this will lead to unnecessary costs and a greater gap between private and public sector technological solutions. It says itself. It may also weaken the legitimacy of public services. It would be directly unwise not to participate in the further development of this technology, be involved in further investigation, research and testing areas in Norway where it is natural. The government should learn from the experience of the rest of the world and follow the advice given in that investigation. It is therefore appropriate to initiate smaller pilot projects using block edge technologies for public databases, for which the proposal is addressed by the proposers. The interesting thing is that blockage technology is far less advanced and more energy-intensive than other existing database technologies. Therefore, we would like to stress that blockage technology does not need to replace public databases, but can be used as a complement to different forms of mixing solutions, i.e. hybrid solutions. It is then important to make a thorough and overall assessment of the types of databases that are best suited to this type of experiment. Elements that should be included in such an assessment are the potential to increase security – which has been mentioned – the possibility to improve user involvement and cost-saving opportunities. That's what we're all after.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3747	That's about. six months ago, the Left submitted this proposal to initiate public sector blockage technology testing. We know that things have happened a lot after that, both with the Left and in different negotiations. It was e.g. a debate on Jeløia, and there was much talk about blockade technology. In fact, it says that there should be a clear priority area to further study for the public. One might wonder why the Left took this initiative in the public sector. Well, the experience gained elsewhere suggests that it has a large scope of application here. This was also believed in the early 1990s, for approx. 30 years ago when the databases came. The databases were kind of the same thing, it was a little incomprehensible: what's going on inside such a database? Well, that's the storage of numbers. And how would you pick it up? What really made us common people to use databases was the online bank. The first online bank customer came in 1996 – it was Sparebanken Hedmark who had the first customer. There was great scepticism about privacy, technology and different solutions, etc., but we must say that it has been a success without equal. It has been an efficiency improvement for banks, and it has been a very good tool for us users of banking services. In the case of banks, it may have been the private initiative, but also in the public sector, there has been a raging development, for example. with the tax notice, which preceded the maritime notification. I am so old that I have been in line to deliver the shipping message on the last day of January, and not least I have worked a lot with it to sign it and be sure it was correct. Today all the information is sent, and there is openness around the information. It's going on in a very user-friendly way. That's why this technology is used that actually serves the people. We believe that blockage technology can do that too, but it has to kind of come from below and up. I believe the Council of State in its response clearly says that it is the public authorities themselves that have to figure out where to put this into practice. There are technologists and the competences that exist and build up – around the university environment and not least in enterprises and the public – who now need to address this, because it is actually very effective, and it is red tape at a high level. The left hopes that there'll be a lot of good out of this. We don't know, because the technology is insecure, but we believe that in many areas we're going to try small trials, and get on this front, and maybe we're going to get an even better, efficient public sector. It's necessary when we see how many databases we need to talk to today for example. shall know which data are available in the field of healthcare. As I said, there has been a lot of progress in the last six months for the Left, and the Left has very good faith that the government's assessments will lead to more public attempts to use blockade technology. That's why we vote as we do today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3764	Technological development is insanely exciting. It allows us to deliver both services and products, transport solutions, etc. on a much larger, better and cheaper scale than what we've dreamed of before. I started my day today at a conference, a podcast in charge of today's business, where I and the head of the Polytechnic Association, Silvija Seres, in a conversation, saw for us how drones change the future, simply by having vessels and craft that are becoming more and more automated, that can be remotely controlled or self-directed, and that solve our problems better and cheaper. It's just our own imagination that limits – and our own trust in the machines. Blockchain gets a little bit the same way. It gives us the opportunity to interact and share information, not have intermediaries to manage etc., but where everyone can participate and contribute and see what has happened. As long as you have confidence in the machine itself, you have confidence in the system. It's like a lot of people think bitcoin when you're talking about blockchain. There is at least one thing that illustrates how this works – where one does not have a central bank that sits and governs, but where everyone can be involved. You see who used the coins or the bitcoin and paid to who, and so you have a transparency in this, a decentralization of both information and transparency, which is very special. This gives possibilities -- not opportunities we should necessarily jump on just because it's exciting. We also need to see that it is useful and beneficial, but the potential is absolutely present. Therefore, the government announced earlier that a study would be conducted to look at these possibilities. The Left's proposal is a good one. I think it's natural that the Left also acts as they do, when they're actually in government and get to be in the processes that the Left in the Biggest actually asked for. So I think it's a rational explanation of this. In the next few weeks, there will be a separate state secretarial committee in the government system that is going to sit down and go through this report to discuss just how we go on to try this out. Just because the system is really going on decentralised transparency, it would be a little weird if the state decided on some centralised, big projects. We believe that here too we should approach this in a decentralised way, simply by our different state agencies and companies looking at where you can benefit from this and start testing it out. There is a lot of experience to be gained before we fully see the potential you have in the short term, but not least in the long term. There's a lot of evidence that the technology that's at the bottom of today is not the one that's in charge tomorrow. So adding all the eggs to today's basket is not necessarily the best way to approximate it. This does not mean, however, that one should stay away from the chicken house in any way. One has to be inside to look at the possibilities, because it's just through experience we're learning from this, that's where we build up knowledge and skills that can be involved and influence what technologies are being developed, and we also have to be a good asker ourselves. The advantage in Norway is that we already have a fairly good public sector, which has good systems at the bottom. This enables us to deliver good services to our citizens today. This means that the need to be far ahead of blockchain in the short term is smaller, simply because short-term benefits could be less because a lot is already working well. But the upside is that the potential here is so huge. One has the public sector, one has the entrepreneurial environment, one has the academic environment, one has the business life we have in Norway, with very high trust between them, and with very low thresholds. It makes us want to be part of and be a driver of that development, so that we deliver services tomorrow that are much better than the ones we have today. Once again, the work to be done by the government to meet the objectives of the proposal is important, that it should be done both quickly and well, and that it is natural that both the political debate and, not least, the professional debate continue in our society, so that we exploit that potential in the best possible way. Making sure that technology doesn't become something that's arm's length away from a lot of the population, that people feel alienated from, but on the contrary, that there's something that contributes to more transparency, to more involvement, and that people understand how it works, I think everyone will experience that we, representing the public part of Norway, will deliver better services to the citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3787	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3792	It's nice to note that the Storting, all of them, in this case, seems to be technology optimists, but we're a little more impatient than it might seem like one's from the position. We have sent two questions to the ministry and received answers to both of them, from two different state councils. Both the State Council of Sanner and the State Council of Malta point out that municipalities are to identify the tasks themselves and that lower costs or higher quality are to be decisive in these matters. Is it such that the Council of State believes that the market forces alone are once again going to show way, this time in the public sector, or will the government then want any carrots?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3798	We generally believe that it is not the market forces alone to show the way, as the Workers' Party is trying to give the impression. We believe that market forces are good to have to make sure that we do a lot of problems. But here it is also important that the state or government is a good order, and often, in most cases, the state is involved as a regulator in this. So it's not anarchy capitalism we conduct in this country, although it's a blue government, just so it's said. What we believe is that it is important for both the state and the local authorities to ensure that they have relevant organisations, groups, etc., looking at what opportunities are here, and starting to test out – that we do not have to create a large, centralized project, but that we have to be a fasilitator for us to go in that direction. I believe that the study that has been carried out, the proposal that the Left made, is a sign that in the government there are many who are ‘other’ in this area. And if you also look at the cooperation we have with our European neighbours, we are at the forefront of being involved and influencing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3807	The Workers' Party believes that taking the lead in the development of new technologies in some contexts, and perhaps especially in the issue of immature technology, could lead to Norwegian environments getting ahead in such areas, and thus become part of the environment that the Minister himself talked about, namely the entrepreneurial environment, and this by creating innovative solutions. I understand that the minister will start something, but is it that one now wants to see some carrots, so that one gets started in public, because that's not always the public thing about new technology.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3812	I think we can agree on the last one. Public opinion is often very risky, because once public spending a penny is wrong, you have huge media spending, you get strong political debate, and that means that a person often uses more energy to protect himself from mistakes than to risk taking. I think we have to make sure that the public dares to take risks, that as politicians we also support projects when they sometimes go wrong, because if we succeed in three out of five, it's usually worth it, instead of implementing zero out of five. The study that was started, which came in March, which we're working on following up, is an example that we've shown that we think this is interesting, that we're taking the initiative. So now it's about how we follow this up. But if we look at the transport sector, to use it as an example, what we are doing in aviation, shipping, road traffic and rail, this country is far ahead of technology – not because we always know where to end, but because we provide for processes and legislation that make business and public work well together.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3821	So the chord change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3843	Before we start voting, the President will ask the Stortinget to make a count as we have a very sharp voting under case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox This is in order for the intruders to see that the lot has the right number of representatives in it. The President therefore asks that everyone now press the for-button. Then everyone is registered, and the count shows that there are 97 representatives present. Then the Storting is ready to go to voting. Case No. 1, the Minister of Health’s presentation on ambulance aircraft in the north, was sent to the Health and Care Committee after the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3858	Mr Hoksrud has asked for the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3863	The Labour Party has promoted a loose proposal today, and I ask the Group of the Party of European Socialists to support this, that is. proposal No 20.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3868	In the course of the debate, a total of 20 proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Ingvild Kjerkol on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left proposal No 2, from Oluk V. Bollestad on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party the proposals No 3 and 4, from Olaug V. Bollestad on behalf of the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No 5, from Oluk V. Bollestad on behalf of the Center Party, Left and Christian People's Party the proposals No 6–15, from Olaug V. Bollestad on behalf of the Center Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No 16, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Center Party the proposals No 17 and 18, from Nicholas Wilkinson on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 19 from Olaug V. Bollestad on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposal No 20, from Tuva Moflag on behalf of the Workers' Party Proposal No. 20 has been tabled after the deadline, but the President has reason to believe that there is a majority in favour of the proposal and will, with the consent of the Grand Duchy, take it up for voting. The proposal was also amended in the course of the debate and now reads: ‘The majority believe that insemination should not be counted as the use of the three official assisted fertilisation trials.’ There is a vote on proposal No. 19, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide a comprehensive investigation explaining the possible consequences of the proposed law amending legal gender in Norway, in line with the initial order.’ The Socialist Left and Red have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3915	I'm sorry, it's wrong. SV shall vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3920	SV shall vote against. Then Red has notified support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3932	There is a vote on proposal No. 17, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a bill to allow egg donation with excess eggs with the same strict rules as for semen donation. Donor shall be unknown and non-anonymous.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3949	There is a vote on proposal No. 18, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to investigate what measures could prevent the Norwegians from using commercial surrogati abroad.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3967	There is a vote on proposal No. 16th from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is not asking for a child-care certificate to be introduced when applying for assisted fertilisation.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e3984	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6-8 and 10, from the Center Party and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the health care does not allow foetal reduction of healthy foetuses.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is not asked to facilitate egg donation in Norway.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is not asked to facilitate the donation of fertilised eggs [[embryo donation]] Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government requests the continuation of the requirement that assisted fertilisation be an offer reserved for couples and does not facilitate the authorisation of assisted fertilisation for single couples.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e4016	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 9 and 13, from the Central Party and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to determine how criminal action can be taken for individuals entering into commercial surrogati agreements with a surrogati mother or for an establishment providing surrogati services, in Norway and abroad, in order not to harm the children born.’; Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals for national regulation so that genetic tests with diagnostic or therapeutic objectives, including full- throughput and eczema sequencing, are only permitted within the healthcare system.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e4040	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 11–12 and 14–15, from the Central Party and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government is asked not to allow non-medically justified storage of unfertilised eggs.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government requests the maintenance of the PGD name scheme.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is not asked to facilitate the authorisation of mitochondria donation in Norway.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to maintain the requirement for the approval of gene therapy treatments.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e4073	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Central Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government does not request any modification or termination of today’s conditions for outreach genetic information activities.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e4088	My counter-button has hung itself up. Is it corrected?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e4094	Help's on the way. You have to vote against?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e4099	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e4104	Then we'll correct it. The correct number of votes is 78 votes against and 19 votes in favour. The proposal was therefore not accepted. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 4, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks to return to Stortinget with an assessment of children born by means of the donor’s real possibilities to know their origin in the light of current practice of sperm donation and imports from foreign sperm banks.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to maintain the requirement for the approval of gene therapy in the Biotechnology Act rather than to approve all the European Medicines Agency’s marketing authorisation therapies [[EMA]] The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e4130	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Party of Advancement, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that Norway is actively working in international contexts to combat the exploitation of women in the international surrogati industry.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e4147	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for an appropriate assessment of how the Biotechnology Act can be evaluated more dynamically and continuously in the future in order to keep up with the rapid development of biotechnology.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e4164	There is a vote on proposal No. 20, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as amended: ‘The majority believe that insemination should not be counted as the use of the three official assisted fertilisation trials.’ The Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e4174	The left shall vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e4179	The left shall vote in favour. Then the Right and the Greens have announced that they will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e4217	It's going to wrestle over you. The Right Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e4231	I wonder if I might have voted incorrectly.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e4236	Yeah, I think so, at least according to the map. We vote again on the Committee's position on I. The Right Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e4252	It shall be added to II and III. The Right Party, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e4266	It is added over IV.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e4280	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Nicholas Wilkinson on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Nicholas Wilkinson on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Nicholas Wilkinson on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that no new pay agreements are drawn up for public health managers in which managers are paid higher than the Prime Minister.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e4309	I voted wrong. I should have voted against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e4314	And then we'll fix it. The correct number of votes will be 90 votes against and 7 votes in favour. The proposal was therefore not accepted. There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government is asked to ensure that the rule of health care establishments is that, if the right of management is used, remuneration shall be determined within the framework of the main tariff agreement, adapted to the tasks of the new post.» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e4333	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to limit the board of directors of hospital directors and other managers of health businesses and regional health businesses and to stop the fees for the jobs of hospital directors and other managers of health businesses.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e4365	The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e4377	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e4418	In the course of the debate, Hans Fredrik Gruvan has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal was amended during the debate and now reads: ‘The government is asking for the suspension of 477 S to be used for the follow-up to the decisions on aggregates 1035, 1036, 1037, 1038, 1039 and 1040, on measures to strengthen consumer rights in trade in housing.’ [[2016-2017]] All parties have now announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e4449	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Geir Jørgen Bekkevold on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No 2, from Olav Urbø on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to Stortingen with a proposal to ensure that suppliers of network services that store and make available large quantities of works and other creative content uploaded by users must agree on the use of such works in cooperation with their rightholders.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e4475	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e4480	And then we'll fix it. The correct number of votes is 81 votes against and 16 votes in favour. The proposal was therefore not accepted. There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the government to investigate and come back to the Stortinget with a case on how and whether works transferred in the classroom, including Internet streaming, can be equated with sample production in the classroom, thereby becoming remunerated, so as to enable the parties to enter into the contract licence also for flow and other transfer.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e4499	I have voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e4504	Then it straightens out. The correct number of votes is 51 votes in favour and 46 votes against. The proposal is therefore a welcome one. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e6270	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e6280	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e6312	It is added over IV. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e6326	It's said over III. The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have now announced subsidiary aid, with which all parties have notified that they will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e6338	It is voted on over I and II.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e6352	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Kirsti Leirtrø on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, by Arne Nävra on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to implement the budget. 555 The Sotra connection to regulated public areas in both directions, as well as the organisation of rail/urban transport, and the re-promoting of the issue for the Storting with these changes as soon as possible.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e6378	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: "The government requests the implementation of the project rv. 555 Sotra connection as an ordinary road construction project directed by the State Road Administration. The financial framework for expansion is as presented in the proposal. The Ministry must provide adequate funding for the forthcoming government budgets in order to ensure that progress is made as foreseen in the bill.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e6395	Again, my button has hung itself up. I should have voted against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e6400	And then we're going to fix it. The correct number of votes is 52 votes against and 45 votes in favour. The proposal was therefore not accepted. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e6430	It shall be weighed over I and IV. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e6444	There's something wrong with my button. I press and press the counter-button, but it becomes too much anyway! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e6449	Maybe you should try it out as well. We're correcting it. The correct number of votes is 51 votes in favour and 46 votes against. The Committee's position is thus favourable. It shall be added to II and III. The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e6467	It's gotta be brave!
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e6472	We're correcting it. The correct number of votes will be 86 votes in favour and 7 votes against. The Committee's position is thus favourable.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e6481	Four proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Ingarill Olsen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Ingarill Olsen on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 4, from Siv Mossleth on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to extend the system of State aid to municipal fishing ports.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to ensure that planned NTP fishing ports are implemented in line with the Stortinget’s NTP progress decision.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e6517	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to make proposals to ensure that the planning of both ports and fairgrounds remains the responsibility of the Coastal Agency and that the Coastal Agency assists the new regions in this respect. The coastal works shall be provided with means of resumption of the work.» The Socialist Left and Red have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e6534	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to maintain the State-owned fishing ports with the Coastal Agency as the owner and manager of the responsibility for planning, development, operation and maintenance.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The Workers' Party has notified subsidiary aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e6561	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e6580	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e6597	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. That is the proposal No. 1-3, from Kirsti Leirtrø on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3, from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the State assumes the guarantee liability for existing national toll projects.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a State guarantee for toll loans on national road projects in future toll projects.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that reduced borrowing costs resulting from State guarantees benefit them by road.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e6635	The Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Red Party have announced subsidiary support for the suspension. The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e6651	During the debate, Øystein Langholm Hansen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests the implementation of several smaller pilot projects using public sector blockages, including attempts to use blockside technologies to replace or complement public databases such as health, education and labour and social management in the period 2018-2021. In selecting the trials to be undertaken, lessons must be learned from ongoing trials in other countries. Account should also be taken of where there are the greatest gains in terms of increased security, increased user involvement and cost savings. The Government shall also consider setting up its own secretariat or cross-sectoral organisation for these trials. The government shall return to Stortinget with the experience of the trials towards the end of the current ageing period.» Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e6668	The Christian People's Party has announced support for the vote. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e6680	Can we do that again?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e6685	Yeah, let's do it again. An alternative is to vote between the Committee's suspension and the proposal of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The Christian People's Party has announced support for the vote. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e6773	In the case of referral No: 442, this was promoted after the deadline laid down in the third paragraph of Article 47 of the Rules of Procedure, which reads as follows: ‘In order to be able to count royal propositions and messages to be dealt with by the Stortinget before the Stortinget terminates its negotiations in June, they must be submitted by 10 April at the latest. The deadline does not apply to proposals for changes in the State budget and notification of revised national budgets, proposals for income statements, tariff negotiations, agricultural negotiations or the annual municipal bill. In order to be able to expect representative proposals and interpellations to be dealt with by the Stortinget before the Stortinget ends its negotiations in June, they must be submitted within the same time limit. The payment may, upon application, derogate from the time limit. Such an application shall be submitted to the Presidency of the Grand Duchy, which shall promote the suspension of the Grand Duchy.’.» The Presidency has received an application from the Ministry of Justice and Security with a request for treatment before the end of the spring session. The President hereby declares that Prop. 90 L for 2017-2018 will be dealt with by Stortinget to terminate its negotiations in June. Referral case No It is then proposed that the Justice Committee be sent to the Grand Duchy to suspend its proceedings in June. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? Mr Kjerkol has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e6791	Since the decision of I in the referral to case No. 2 does not reflect the majority in the hall, I ask that it be set up as a matter again. I have understood that this should be done like this. It's possible it's wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-15.ana.ud217e6798	Decisions are decisions, the club has gone to the table. If someone has voted incorrectly and it doesn't reflect the Storting's will, it's a pity, but that's the case when there's a problem in voting and the groups have no control over the number of representatives present. - The meeting's been cancelled.
