ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e78	From 28 May to 8 June, an application for parental leave has been submitted by the representative Trond Giske. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the commodity Kristian Torve shall be called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e98	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16 until today's map has been processed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e116	: This case concerns proposals to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Storting § 27 to allow members other than those of the Committee to be present at closed committee hearings. After the suspension, the Presidency has received a message that this change should be postponed. The Presidency has today discussed the matter and has come to the conclusion that the request for a postponement should be met. I would therefore suggest that the matter be sent back to the presidency under Section 41 of Storting’s Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e123	Morten Wold, on behalf of the presidency, has addressed the proposal to which he referred. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e139	The President will propose that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Christian Party 5 minutes, Green Party 5 minutes and Red 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, seven lines of reply be given after contributions by members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e152	I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a good presentation and for the perspectives that were drawn up. In a time more unstable and unpredictable world, the stable relationship we have with the EU through the EEA Agreement has become even more important. I think it's hasardious to think that we should get a better deal with 26 countries than we did with 25 countries in the early 1990s. The United Kingdom’s efforts to find the best possible link outside the EU have proved to be a risky way to go. To believe that a single country can negotiate a tailor-made agreement, where we choose and wreck some of the elements we like and dislike, is not realistic. The EEA Agreement has all served us well, and I think the Minister for Foreign Affairs has explained how it works and how risky it is to put it at risk. But I am surprised that the Minister of Foreign Affairs did not at all mention the spectacular shift in Norwegian policy towards the United Kingdom and the EEA, which the Prime Minister announced during a separate interview on 13 May, and which she later confirmed in a new interview with NTB. If the British want to join the EEA, they are warmly welcome, she said. The Minister for Foreign Affairs himself was concerned that the government would not jeopardise the EEA Agreement. Well, this line shift is completely across opinions from this government's former European ministers have come along. And I cannot see that Stortinget has been consulted on this either. The Government has previously clearly indicated that EFTA and EEA membership of the United Kingdom is not in Norwegian interest. Now the prime minister says something quite different. However, in terms of both agriculture and fish, and in terms of environmental and labour standards in trade agreements, we often have interests other than the United Kingdom. Political cooperation between European countries is more important than in the past. Joint action against the Russian annexation of Crimea has made it clear that Europe can cooperate. We still have to stick together on common values, international law and cooperation – not the strongest right. The common European values of political and economic cooperation were largely established on the basis of transatlantic relations and with inspiration and encouragement from the United States after the war. Now it is the United States that is to a large extent challenging these common values through the introduction of new tariffs, the termination of the Iran Agreement and the conclusion of multilateral agreements – such as the Paris Agreement on our common climate. Europe must then take greater global responsibility for international law, multilateralism and the maintenance of our common institutions. In such a situation, it is important that we also support the political power of EU cooperation in Norway. A strong EU is an advantage for Norway. The Minister for Foreign Affairs announced that she would invite other government councils to these European statements. I'm not going to rule out that this can be a good idea – we have to discuss it – but I also think we have to be honest with each other about how Storting's work on European affairs works now. For my part, I mean that, for example: The European Committee does not function as a good system of consultation between the government and the magnificence. Governments often come and make good and long speeches, but it is difficult to prepare for the various trade unions here in the house. I therefore believe that a concrete improvement is that the Stortinget will be sent to the Council of State in advance, so we know what we should be consulted on. The way in which we are dealing today with consent for participation in the EEA Committee also has something ritual over it. So I would warn against making more parliamentary rituals, unless it is a specific subject the government will discuss with the Stortinget. The EEA Agreement has served Norway well, but our national EEA work has room for improvement. I believe that we do not primarily need new rituals and structures, but that together we are responsible for the better functioning of the bodies we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e171	I'll start about where the previous speaker started, but maybe not finished, by thanking the Foreign Minister for the statement we got here in the Chamber on Tuesday. I think the Minister for Foreign Affairs has given a very timely review and reminder to underline the importance of European cooperation. In our own domestic debate on Europe, which, of course, will often be problem-focused, there is also a tendency to underplay what European policy actually means to us, not only in this Chamber, but to those who go out on the streets here, those who do business, and those who benefit from security and well-being – in short, the whole of Norwegian society. It is essential to note that close links with the EU, not least through the EEA and the additional agreements, of which Schengen is the most important, have been sought by all governments and large numbers for almost 30 years. This is a cooperation that is not imposed on us, not imposed on us by others. Norway chooses to cooperate closely with the EU, simply because it is in our own national interest. The EEA Agreement provides Norway with financial opportunities far beyond an ordinary trade agreement with the EU. There are no other forms of association that offer similar opportunities and rights, unless comparison is made with full EU membership. Down to our working day in Norwegian companies, we see the importance of the EEA agreement. Without labour from other EEA countries, many Norwegian enterprises would have remained silent or might not have had so much value creation. Without access to a market 100 times larger than our domestic market, Norwegian jobs would be harmful. If we are to share in the prosperity of international trade, which is one of the explanations that the world has worked out of poverty, and that the middle-income countries have gone from being middle-income countries to becoming high-income countries, it is precisely because we are participating in this trade in goods. To have someone to exchange goods with, we have to have unhindered market access on the same footing. European cooperation will become more important in the future. In particular, we have seen this in recent years in the field of security policy, and this gives an additional dimension to the practical and economic aspects, such as global problems such as migration pressures and climate change. Less powerful countries depend on multilateral institutions forming the framework for cooperation between countries. Without such an institutional framework, large countries would consistently win over small ones. With frameworks, with common legal form and institutions, international relations are more characterised by equality of rules, predictability, equal partnership and power. The international institutions also offer a finished organisation that can be set up to solve new problems that may arise, put these solutions into practice when the problems are recognised by all, experienced as common and cross-border. One disadvantage of our relationship is that we have cut off participation in the previous discussions and cooperation on the design of the solutions. It is not the government's policy to apply for membership, but the political parties must over time assess whether it would also be better for Norway if the EU were to be enriched with Norwegian participation in policy making. We have seen more historical changes in politics than the updating of an application for membership, but it must come from below, as a political wish, as an expression of the parties and their members and voters, not from above and from the government. EU security and defence policy has been given an existing dimension after the annexation of Crimea. If EU Member States strengthen cooperation in this area, it will also make Norway safer. The extent to which Norway reaps depends on the closeness of Norway’s opportunities to participate in this cooperation. I will end here by saying about the contradiction that some people have tried to put into permanent, structured cooperation on defence issues, that it is a supplement and not a competition. We don't see an alternative alliance, because the people who are in Pesco are also the ones who are connected through the Atlantic Pact. But there's a lot to do to mobilize the whole community into a total defense project, and that's also what Pesco is about.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e186	Like the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I would like to begin by stressing the importance of the EEA Agreement. It is important for Norwegian enterprises and jobs. The EEA Agreement ensures unique access to the European market. We're a small country with 5 million people, and we're totally dependent on an open economy. The EEA Agreement gives Norwegian enterprises access to a domestic market of around 500 million people across 31 countries, without having to deal with barriers to trade and varying standard requirements. The EEA Agreement is also important for ordinary people. They have access to a larger range of goods and services at lower prices. They can travel to other European countries to study, research or work. A normal free trade agreement will not give the same access and opportunities. No alternative removes barriers to trade, as membership of the EU internal market does. The Brexit process shows that it is very challenging to negotiate an alternative form of association with the EU. It is not possible to choose what appears to be a positive relationship with the EU and to keep the rest out of it. However, this means that we can work to find good solutions to what we think are problematic aspects of the EEA Agreement, such as welfare export and labour-life crime. Seeing the importance of the EEA Agreement for Norwegian interests does not mean that we agree with everything that the EU does. We need to use the means we can to change proposals that are not in Norway's interest. The EEA Agreement is flexible and gives us scope for action to find national schemes when we need this. We have to take advantage of this space of action. The EU has, after all, changed significantly since the signature of the EEA Agreement in 1992. I believe that European cooperation will become even more important for Norway in the coming years. It concerns migration and asylum, the fight against terrorism, the fight against organised crime and labour crime. It is also important to be together with like-minded Western democracies in a world that is becoming more uncertain and unpredictable, and where our world order is being challenged by more teams. Cross-border work crime is incompatible with an orderly and well-functioning working life. Black work and other offences undermine serious business. We need fair and free competition, and by weakening the black economy, we can finance more well-being and tax relief for most people. That is why we must work for joint action at European level and concrete cooperation measures with some countries. It is very positive that the Prime Minister has taken an initiative towards the EU in order to strengthen the fight against crime at work. The Minister for Foreign Affairs presented the EEA funds as an important instrument in the fight against crime at work. For the period 2014-2021 SEK 2.8 billion. EUR at the disposal of the 15 countries eligible for EEA funding. These should be more widely used to combat this type of crime. In addition, the Progress Party will lower the threshold for the expulsion of EEA citizens and ensure that the police and the UDI follow-up of these cases, so that the industries concerned operate optimally under lawful conditions. It is quite unreasonable for persons to receive the same amount of child benefit and cash support if their children live in a country with significantly lower costs than in Norway and perhaps never put their legs here. The government is working for the EU to accept purchasing power adjustment of welfare benefits. It is well known that this requirement has not met the will of the EU institutions. But here there are several EU countries that think like us, and with which we work together to influence the EU. Brexit is high on the government's agenda. The aim is still to ensure as close cooperation as possible with the United Kingdom. We have many common interests and areas of cooperation. Fisheries, finance, justice and security are some of the most important. The United Kingdom is one of our most important trading partners, and we must take care of Norwegian interests. Brexit has proved to be a demanding process. In March, the United Kingdom and the EU agreed on a transitional arrangement from the United Kingdom leaving the EU on 29 March 2019 and until 31 December 2020. The United Kingdom will remain bound by the obligations contained in EU agreements with third countries, such as the EEA Agreement, during the transitional period. This is important for example: ensuring predictability and equal rights for Norwegian citizens and businesses in the United Kingdom, while negotiating the agreement on the future relationship between Norway and the United Kingdom. Although the British Government has rejected the fact that an EEA model is up-to-date, there is an increasing debate in the UK Parliament on the EEA as a possible model. The upper house voted at the beginning of May for the United Kingdom to remain connected to the EEA. The matter will now be put to the vote in the House of Commons. If the UK authorities change their approach to EFTA and EEA membership, the government will have to consider this in depth, but initially the Progress Party is favourably inclined to such an approach.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e218	Thanks to the Foreign Minister for the distribution of Norway’s relations with the EU and the EEA Agreement – an arrangement that shows that, with support from the majority of the population, which we have heard here today, the government is doing everything it can to adapt to the EU as quickly as possible, including in areas that were never meant to be covered by the EEA Agreement. Governments are talking about all the advantages of the EEA Agreement, and there are of course many good ones, but no one knows if the stand would have been the least different with another alternative agreement. Now the Norwegian Governments do not urge the EU to give the United Kingdom better conditions than the EEA, because does their doomsday prophecies not work? Today, the EEA Agreement leads to the purchase of fishing boats of up to 15 metres by people from Eastern European countries, to great despair for the coastal population, and to the competition of transport companies from East European low-cost companies. Free movement also means that we have a working life where social dumping and underpaid people are added with hopeless working conditions – according to Norwegian standards – day-to-day. But that is not the Secretary of State. It also excludes the turbulence that persists in the EU after radical right-wing governments have taken government positions in both Poland, Hungary and Italy. Why didn't she? The government relies on the support of the people of the EEA Agreement. But do people know most about how the government is turning the EEA Agreement into a ‘membership light’? It is high time this was part of the public vocabulary. The issue of EU financial supervision is one example. Only two years after the Storting made a historic transfer of sovereignty to the EU’s financial supervision, the EU is now giving substantially more power to the same financial supervision. This was sub-communicated by the Council of State, but it shows that the transfer of sovereignty does not stop. However, what gives the most cause for concern now is the government's urgency to link Norway to the EU's defence policy. Our membership in NATO is strong in Norway and vital to us. Norway is NATO in the north. And just at a time when the United States, with its unresponsive president, is making all good forces need to support NATO as a strong defence alliance, the government is alerting a close integration into the EU's construction of an independent defence cooperation. This is serious. I would ask the Council of State to do exactly what the government has from the Storting to integrate Norway into the EU Defence Fund. There are no sentences in an EU/EEA briefing. If the government is to continue this work, the government must present a case in which the Storting is properly informed, including how the EU's stepping up its own defence cooperation can affect NATO cooperation. At a meeting I've shared in the NATO headquarters, it was obvious that one in those circles is concerned that a builds parallel structures that can provide battles for both road choices, structures and already small economic resources. The Central Party is therefore making a proposal today asking the Government to present a case to the Stortinget for, and how, Norway will participate in, the EU Defence Fund and other defence policy cooperation that is not part of the EEA Agreement. This is a big deal about our future defence. As elected representatives, it is our responsibility to ensure the security of the inhabitants, to use limited resources as effectively as possible, and to ensure that NATO is not weakened by the construction of parallel structures. EU citizens in the government and here in the Grand Duchy are doing everything they can to bring Norway into the EU, so that by the next crossroads we can claim that we are members in any case. It shows little democratic disposition and respect for the people's unity. Now it's high time we took a foot in the ground and looked at the search light on what's going on, and the consequences of the adaptation. I demand a stronger will from the government to change Norwegian sovereignty. Not even in the government's communication with the EU is trying to stop him. In the ACER compromise on Stortinget it was claimed that Norway would come with ‘a formal declaration to the EU/EEA expressing our position’. It was also claimed that: ‘This will form the basis for Norway’s views on possible future changes in EU energy policy’. The class struggle last Tuesday revealed that the declaration has been sent to the EU, but that it so-called the declaration in practice does not matter at all. Here, too, the Labour Party – at least parts of the Labour Party – has reason to feel cheated by what was said and at least the Labour Party claimed was the situation. The EU is creating more and more agencies. Professor Jarle Trondal says that creating an agency is Brussels' new universal solution to further develop the EU project. It speaks for many more Acer conflicts in the future. Yes, the EEA Agreement has also done good for Norway, but I am calling for a foreign minister who is also realistic when it relates to the less positive aspects of the agreement. I'm taking up the proposal from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e258	The representative, Liv Signe Navarsete, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e263	The Minister for Foreign Affairs rightly pointed out that, in an increasingly large part of Europe, there is a worrying emergence of right-wing nationalism and followers of so-called illiberal democracy – not only in the form of oppositionals with increased support, but also in the form of governments that govern on that basis in the heart of Europe and in the EU. I share that concern, but at the same time there's a very clear difference in how we explain and understand that this is happening. It is treated almost as if it were a form of natural disaster by our domestic EU followers, while in reality it is very closely linked to the market liberalism that permeates the EU at all levels, which is a fundamental part of the EU's idea. It is a faulty economic policy that leads to a massive increase in inequality in power and wealth, which leads to an ever-increasing change in working life on the premises of employers and large companies, and a greater need for workers to stand by the hand, the fact that, after the introduction of economic and monetary union, the debt in southern Europe has reached completely unmanageable sizes, and that the countries of the east are left with an economy in which they export too much of their own inhabitants rather than goods and services. This is the basis for the SV's EU resistance and the EU's left-wing criticism that is now very growing, including in the EU Member States. But I see that the EU's followers here at home, whether they are represented by the government of this pulpit, or in the commentary columns on today's business, are marked by the same fatalism that we know from 1994. Everything is like it's always been, and it must always be, nothing is going to change, and there's no alternative. The way to argue has a cross of comics over it in a time when we see as fundamental and big political changes as we do right now, and where one thing we really should have done is to agree that things are not going to be just like before, and that we must therefore have a serious debate about what are the best alternatives, also for Norway. Once again, when the Minister for Foreign Affairs states in his statement that there is no better alternative than the current EEA agreement, she does so after the government has made no attempt to investigate this matter — not a single initiative to investigate whether there is any better alternative for Norway, or an opportunity to participate in negotiating the new organisation we now have in one way or another between the EU and non-EU countries. The reason might be that the biggest problem with the EEA Agreement is not so much involvement with the government parties, because the biggest problem with the EEA Agreement lies in our working life, in the dramatic development towards more social dumping, against more under-regulation of workers, with greater temporaryity, less employment security, less protection against arbitrarily being able to get fired, less rights and opportunities to stand up for themselves. In a short time, we have the opportunity to decide on two EU directives, which will also strengthen the progress towards a more liberalised, deregulated working life on the premises of the heads and tops of Norwegian society. One thing will happen if the government does not get through its views in the debates in the EU on cabotage, and we thus get even more social dumping on the roads. And the second will come through the debate on the Railway Directive, where the EU will force us to legislate on the competitive and privatisation of the railways against which a large minority on the Storting are opposed. We believe that the right to veto must be used in both of these cases if the EU wants to impose more social dumping on us on the roads, and if we want to legislate on a competitive environment that so many in Norway are against. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs something, because I am also amazed at this EEA invitation from the Prime Minister, and I wonder how this should be done. Because if the United Kingdom is going to negotiate to join the EEA, is it not easy to imagine that they will only enter the EEA without any kind of negotiation about what the EEA Agreement will look like? The government has always said that it is completely inappropriate to renegotiate the EEA Agreement. Does this mean that the government will open up the UK to negotiate the EEA Agreement without Norway? Or is it that the government actually opens up to renegotiate the EEA Agreement anyway?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e278	The next speaker is Ketil Kjeseth. He's not here, we give the word to Knut Arild Hareide.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e283	I would also like to start by thanking the Council of State for a very good deal. Thanks also for a strong defence for the EEA Agreement, here we are some. The agreement has started Norway well, and the access it gives to the EU's internal market, I would say, is critical for Norwegian business and Norwegian jobs. At the same time, the EEA Agreement ensures that we avoid losing national freedom of action in important areas, such as the EU Customs Union and the Common Agricultural and Fisheries Policy. It is important, not least from a district and business perspective. We also maintain greater freedom of foreign policy action, where EU countries need to speak more with one voice. Today's connection is, as the Christian People's Party sees it, the best solution to the relationship with the EU, and we feel quite well to be in the political debate in Norway between the EU's adherents and the wish-seekers for another agreement with the EU. At the same time, I would like to say that we have a reservation facility through the EEA Agreement. She's been trying to use different minorities in this room. I believe that the EEA Agreement would have been even stronger if we had actually used the reservation facility, the right we have in the agreement. Brexit will not only affect the relationship with the United Kingdom and the EU, but is also important for Norway and Norwegian business. The United Kingdom is one of Norway's most important trading partners in terms of goods, services and investment, and the largest trading partner in terms of goods. It is important that the government follows the negotiations and process around Brexit as closely as possible, and that a person takes responsibility for bringing Norwegian companies forward the changes, while at the same time making it possible to secure solid agreements with the British. Brexit naturally takes a lot of attention and is a challenge that Europe should be able to solve in a good way. However, a far more serious challenge in the long term is the glaring gap between the original Western members of the EU and the newer member countries of Eastern and Central Europe. It's a division that goes deeper than the individual issues. It's about identity, history, values, religion and understanding of democracy. Anti-democratic trends in countries such as Hungary and Poland provide absolute cause for concern. In Poland, authorities have increasingly taken control of the judiciary and are trying to do the same with the media, while at the same time criminalising Polish participation in the Holocaust. Such currents threaten both European values and European cohesion. It is crucial for the further development of the EU that a power stands out clearly for democracy, legal certainty and respect for human rights in the face of illiberal trends. It's about what values will shape Europe in the future, and it's also about Norway to a great extent. Then it's a little paradoxical to one in Poland, which covers over 60 pst. of their public investment through EU funds, almost a word war against the EU. It is also easy for European politicians to blame the EU for everything that goes wrong and to take credit for what goes well. We may also have seen a rash before the Brexit debate in the United Kingdom. Finally, I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for being clear on the importance of Nordic cooperation. The Nordic region is our closest regional level of cooperation, and cooperation with the Nordic countries has a decisive impact on Norway. The Christian People's Party of the Nordics should try to reach a common position and stand together as an important foreign policy actor on several important international issues in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e296	First, thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a thorough and detailed presentation. As everyone in this Chamber is fully aware, much of Norwegian regulations and laws are being negotiated and passed in Brussels by the EU Member States and the European Parliament. Our Norwegian absence in these organisations represents a major democratic problem as we have what is called regulation without representation. For the Green Party, it is therefore important to ensure greater public involvement in the work of the European Union and to reduce the democratic deficit within the framework we have. Not least in the debate on the third energy market package, it turned out that there were strong feelings and commitment around the relationship with Europe. It is important for good cooperation in the future that this commitment is better expressed in both form and process. I would like to stress that the European Union is not primarily a market defined by the four market freedoms. Europe is perhaps above all a will to live together, a will for cooperation across differences, which is particularly pressing in the world today. Instead of the big, general EU debate, I will present here the concrete, specific, close things we can do to strengthen the debate on participation in cooperation. There are four questions I want to ask the government: Will the government now occupy the position of Norway in the European Parliament, which has been available for three years? Why is it still available, and what will the government do to strengthen Norway's presence in the European Parliament? Will the government work to establish a voluntary house that can facilitate active work on the part of Norwegian citizens towards the EU institutions, so that a wider organised civil society in Norway, which is affected by Europe's policies, can have a clearer voice there – i.e. a volunteer's house for the civil sector? Will the government provide more active and expanded diplomatic work in Brussels, which can improve Norwegian vision, better heard and better understood by our neighbouring countries and across the EU? Will the government work for greater attention and political treatment of new policies from Brussels throughout Norway – not just in the United Kingdom? How can we have a wider European conversation in Norway? We need a new debate on Europe today, which extends beyond directives and ESA regulations. We need a debate that gives people in Norway a voice in the larger European conversation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e323	In his statement to the Stortinget, the Minister for Foreign Affairs said that all governments and large-scale figures have supported the EEA Agreement and closer cooperation with the EU in the last 30 years. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is right about this. It also shows the need for the majority of people who voted no to the EU, who have done so in two rounds, who continue to support Norwegian sovereignty, and who do not want more power to be moved out of Norway, to be better represented on the Stortinget. We in Red see it as an important task for the people, the majority, to be heard and implemented, not least when the EU supporters of the Labour Party, the Progress Party and the Right will listen to Brussels. A good example of the lack of power against listening to the wishes of the people saw us in the conflict with the European Energy Agency, Acer. Despite the massive resistance of the entire trade movement, in its own party and in its own states, the Labour Party voted on the Stortinget – together with the Progress Party, the Right, the Left and the Green – to submit Norway to the EU Energy Agency, Acer. The Agreement between the Government Parties, the Workers' Party and the Green Party states: ‘Norwegian authorities shall have full control over all decisions relevant to energy security in Norway, including’ is the subject of ‘industry and power disconnection’. However, this agreement has no meaning when we do not have a legally binding agreement with the EU on how EEA law will be practised. Ultimately, the monitoring body, ESA and the EFTA Court, which enforces and determines how the rules contained in the third energy market package of the EU will intervene in the Norwegian energy sector. To make sure that the pill is as good as possible during the ACER battle, the conditions of the ACER comrades towards the EU were referred to as a safety valve, as mandatory requirements and even as a nuclear button. In the compromise at Stortinget, it was made clear that Norway was going to give up ‘a formal declaration to the EU/EEA expressing our position in line with the principles of the majority voting; [[...]] This can at least sound a bit powerful. But then the letter came to the European Union. The agreement was attached as an attachment: please see attached an English translation of the agreement, for information. It probably has about the same status — legally — as a resolution of a county annual meeting in Red. This is not binding at any level, unless the Minister of Foreign Affairs can prove that this is a legally binding text, which binds the EU to Norway. In this way, the Workers' Party, the bourgeois and the Greens have set Norwegian self-determination over energy, power and power connections in play, despite the so-called guarantees given when this waiver of sovereignty was discussed here in Stortinget. The Foreign Minister also addressed European defence and security cooperation, Pesco. Red is not an opponent of security policy cooperation in Europe. In recent years, the United States and NATO have launched three wars in Europe’s neighbourhoods, all with devastating consequences, such as the blossoming of Islamist terror and refugee disasters just outside Europe’s living door. Red wants a responsible security policy and puts Norway's interests, peace and solidarity ahead of foreign major interests. That is why we are in order to cooperate with Europe in order to ensure peace in our neighbourhoods, but it must happen without agreements that can deprive Norway of sovereignty and defence, which Pesco unfortunately seems to be doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e346	The next speaker is the representative Ketil Kjeseth – we'll try again.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e351	Thank you for that, President! I am sorry that I was not present at the outset. There was some trouble in the exchange associated with who should have the main post from the left. First of all, I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for the presentation. For my own part, I have spent my holidays and the last week on a work week on the Western Balkans, which is a theme in the Foreign Minister's presentation. This is a particularly important region. For my part, I was there too because this is a region that has great potential for energy. The former Yugoslavia had a very good infrastructure network related to electricity, they have significant hydropower and significant solar potential, but also have significant potential associated with biomass. They still have common languages, common standards and common education and training systems, and this is a region that is still operational for energy purposes. They themselves believe that they are the third best-organised region in Europe in terms of energy — and that’s interesting in the follow-up to the statement by the representative of Moxnes here in view of the debate we had on ACER. That debate is about so much more, and it is important to include those regions in Europe that have good infrastructure related to energy, and that also have a great potential, and that look to the Nordics and Scandinavia, in terms of the energy cooperation we have established here in the Nordic region over the last 25 years. We are a role model for the Western Balkans. However, Western Balkans is also important because there are still challenges there, particularly related to Bosnia when Serbia and Montenegro are invited to join the EU. It'll take time. In Bosnia, in particular, there are challenges to future development, and it is important that we follow up and use the channels and cooperation venues that they have established over a long period of time. In the case of democracy, volunteering – NGOs are important in the Balkans – and 85 pst. by the citizens of Bosnia want to become members of the EU, they want to cooperate westwards. On Saturday and Sunday I was in Sarajevo, and when I left, Erdogan came – without comparison – and it was an improper experience to see the busloads that came into Sarajevo with Muslims from all over Europe to celebrate Erdogan. It's not a development we're going to see in Norway, that regimes that are struggling with their democratic challenges are taking place in Central Europe to cultivate their ideals. I was also formerly this week at a meeting of committee chairmen in Sofia, Bulgaria, on energy. The big debate on gas, and there's a debate we don't hear about here. Poland and the Baltic countries want more cooperation and more supplies from Norway and from Denmark through a ‘Baltic Pipe’. The Germans want to finish Nord Stream 2 and cooperate with the Russians, which they believe has been a stable supplier. These are major geopolitical cooperation structures. It is important that we in Norway discuss how we should deal with actors who do not necessarily have the democratic ideals that we in Norway want to love. So our cooperation – if we are not part of the EU – is very important. Like the great supplier of renewable energy, oil and gas, this is important cooperation patterns that we must be part of. Using our investment in democracy and transparency, building a business that is based on our values, openness and transparency, is also very important. I will not spend so much time on brexit, but it is obviously important now to sit quietly in the boat. There is no reason for us to join the Uncertainty Club, for us to create uncertainty for the business community in Norway, which is based on the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e364	Thank you for a good debate so far. The representative Bears Moxnes – that’s a pity he didn’t have the opportunity to be in the room much more than 6 minutes so he could hear the answer – is concerned that people have said no to the EU. That is quite right, but people have not said no to the EEA and the form of association and cooperation we have with the EU. As I mentioned in my statement, we are concerned with a safe, free, economically strong and responsible Europe, because it also serves Norwegian interests. We are engaged in a large domestic market, which provides opportunities for Norwegian companies, but we are also concerned about – as I see Stoknes as very good – that Europe is also willing to cooperate. It is a key point of government both in the new strategy we have put forward for cooperation with the EU and in general in the way we work. I would like to try to answer some of the questions. I might have to get back to a little 3 minute later if I don't reach everything at the same time. I still hear both the SV, the Senterpartiet and to the extent that Red is talking about not knowing what the world would look like without the EEA agreement. Well, we know a good part about what that would look like. We wouldn't have the same access to a large domestic market in any way. We wouldn't have the same free movement of people and labour, the opportunity to study out and settle out, and not least we would have less chance of common solutions to common problems. I believe many today have said it very well in relation to how one would imagine that we would now start a possible discussion about the EEA Agreement again. The United Kingdom now experiences, when it tries to find agreements and forms of cooperation with the EU after they go out, is a good picture of how complicated it is. The representative of Navarsete said that I was not talking about either work life, unrest in Hungary, Poland or other issues. I was quite broad and full-bodied in my presentation and should not repeat it now, but the turmoil is very real – for what is happening on the Western Balkans, as an inspiring Member State, and for what is happening in Poland and Hungary, and Turkey, which is a country with which the EU is working closely. To the disturbance of defence policy coupling. As the representative Navarsete said, "Norway is NATO in the north." I am pleased that the Central Party uses the same terms as the government does to it. I was very clear in my presentation that the pillar of our security cooperation is NATO – and it will continue to be. But we are also concerned that Europe should take greater responsibility for our common security, unless it conflicts with NATO cooperation. We have been crystal clear about that in NATO and in the EU, and it was also an essential part of my presentation. I also said that the government will assess possible participation in projects of particular interest within the structured defence cooperation Pesco. It is therefore not the same as the representative also said to integrate into EU defence cooperation. That's two completely different things. Moreover, through the appropriations for participation in the research preparatory defence fund, the size has had a discussion – and contributed to a discussion – about just part of this link. In this context, it can also be added that most EU countries are in NATO. There are six pieces that are not in NATO. Two of them are Sweden and Finland, which have a very close relationship with NATO. Some words related to the statements of the Prime Minister. The representative Lightbakken said this was a line change – it was also the representative Huitfeldt inside. I totally disagree with that. The government has never rejected this as a current problem. It is the British who have rejected the fact that this may be a current issue – over and over again. We are dealing with that, and we respect the decisions of the British Government. But let me also remind you that when the Councils of Aspaker and Bakke-Jensen expressed their opinion on this, the United Kingdom would not accept the four freedoms and would not accept the EEA framework conditions as they are today. The Prime Minister has responded under the assumption — the hypothetical assumption — that the United Kingdom should change its outlook. So the United Kingdom hasn't done that, and that's how we relate to it. There are several questions from the representative Lysbakken, who really deserve answers. I'll come back to them in my post afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e389	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e394	The Foreign Minister now said that the Prime Minister's interview was no new line. There's no point in arguing about it, but it's at least been perceived as a new line. One thing is never to reject an opportunity for the United Kingdom to join the EFTA and EEA, but something else is at my discretion – as the interview was perceived – to invite and say that it will strengthen our negotiating position. But if the British were to change their mind on this issue, how does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think that a British membership of the EEA would strengthen the EEA Agreement, given the requirement for unanimity on the part of EFTA countries to adopt new legislation and the UK's attachment to opt-outs?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e399	One of the reasons why we, as we have said several times before, relate to the fact that the British have not wanted an EEA connection, is that they so clearly say that they do not want the four freedoms. They want, among other things: have less free movement of persons and they want to be able to make their own legislation. Both are prerequisites for EEA cooperation. The EU side is also unusually clear that you cannot break up the four freedoms – take away those you like, and ignore those you don't like – and are very concerned about the single market unit. It was last confirmed yesterday, when I was at the EEA Council in Brussels, by Chief Negotiator Barnier. So the question is completely hypothetical. If the British were to change their position, there is something that needs to be considered. The EEA Agreement is not an agreement between Norway and the EU. There is an agreement between 31 countries, and it is also important to be aware of this. It will have some benefits, such as: that one can imagine a stronger block, but it will also have some disadvantages, especially because in some areas we have quite different interests from the British.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e406	If that should happen – as we can say is hypothetical today, but sometimes only things happen, even if they look hypothetical – will the government consult the Stortinget before deciding on membership both in EFTA and possibly in the EEA, or will the Stortinget be informed through an interview?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e411	I don't think we should prejudge any events, because these questions are relatively far ahead of time. We will first put in place the call-out conditions that will allow the transitional regime to enter into force, and it will last until 31 December 2020. There are no signals at present indicating that the British have any desire to participate in common regulatory design, participate in all four freedoms, and there is, as I said, a discussion that, if it should suddenly change, has to be taken. At the same time, I am concerned to stress that in this context, the British are going to put away their primary positions, that is, in the case of common legislation, they are going to accept all four freedoms and the integrity of the internal market, and there is nothing to suggest. Of course, if it were to change, there is something we want to discuss with Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e416	In his statement, the Minister for Foreign Affairs said that Norway, as the only third country, is part of the EU Defence Fund's pilot scheme for defence research, and that the government is positioned to: «part of the second part of the Fund, which aims at multi-national material development and acquisition cooperation». She also said that a working actively against EU institutions and a number of member countries to ensure Norwegian participation, and that a ‘estimate possible participation in projects of particular interest in the structured defence cooperation, Pesco’.» This is, in my view, a rather large integration of Norway into the EU’s defence policy. It's a collaboration that goes far beyond what we've been up to in the past. My question is: will the Foreign Minister present a case to the Storting before a position is taken, and before a decision is taken to proceed with this cooperation, so that the Storting can discuss this openly?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e431	As I was in my post now, it's an assessment that participating in a preparatory research collaboration is positive. We do that in a great many other areas of the European Union. This is not just about defence research, but we are doing it through the major framework programmes for research that have been very favourable to Norwegian research environments and that have been very important for us to internationalise our research. On the issue of material cooperation, it is a natural consequence of participation in material development. It is important for the Norwegian defence industry, of which the Centre Party is otherwise very concerned, and which represents very many district workplaces and a highly technological and highly competent industry. Then the representative himself quoted what I said that we consider in addition ‘possible participation’ in individual projects ‘of particular interest’. What they may be, we do not yet know, because the EU does not yet know, but it is now beginning to structure cooperation a little more and to find a good division of labour between the EU and NATO.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e439	In its distribution, the Minister of Foreign Affairs also said that in some of the beneficiary countries for EEA funds, there is a now evidence of repression and that civil society cannot participate in a good way. Will the government now cut into EEA funds for those countries that do not have a democratic system, as we in Norway define it – by participating in civil society and not oppressing part of the population? Do you want to go into this, and the Storting will get information about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e444	This is also among the things I have previously briefed on in the European Committee of Great Britain, and I will continue to keep the Storting informed about it. This is a very worrying development, which I also had in mind in my statement, and so far also now, because we see very clearly that there is a clear turn in some individual countries in Europe where one sees some of the same developments. It is a system of governance that takes less account of fundamental rights and freedoms than before, and which, on the contrary, is considerably tightening in many places. We use EEA funds in such a way that we conclude agreements specifically relating to the civil society funds. That's where we're especially concerned about having independent administration, that is, independent of government. We do not agree on any part of the EEA funds until we agree on the whole. That is what we are now negotiating with Hungary, which is the last country we have not agreed to on these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e449	Hypothetically or not — the Prime Minister and the government have now opened up the UK to become part of the EEA, and we have to take into account that unforeseen things happen, because it happens all the time in Europe by day. I would like to reply to the following: it is unlikely that the United Kingdom will enter the EEA without any negotiation of the terms and conditions, where the possibility of changes to the current works of agreement will also arise. In such a situation, I would assume that it would be extremely unwise for Norway not to participate in such negotiations itself. To date, the government has said a very clear no to any proposal to renegotiate the EEA Agreement. If the United Kingdom wants EEA membership, will Norway ask to participate in the negotiations and be in favour of a renegotiation of the EEA Agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e454	Let me repeat some of what I said in a previous answer. So the fact that the British might want to participate does not mean the same thing as a renegotiation. What is the situation, and on which the EU is also very clear, is that the internal market cannot be disrupted – the integrity of the internal market is therefore very important. You can't choose any of the four freedoms and leave others alone, you can't choose not to have common regulatory design. And it's just these things the British have said they don't want to. The point then is that in an agreement between 31 countries, not just Norway and the EU, any new partners who wish to join must accept the conditions that exist, including: the four freedoms and common legislative design. It is a premise that will also lie there on the part of the European Union, and which is already very clear on the part of the European Union today, given both the possible link Britain should have with the European Union afterwards – and also completely different solutions – and how they take care of further EEA cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e463	The debate on the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the EU is now not so acute and interesting for Norway, but it is of course interesting to follow. I think the Council of State is taking a good position by waiting for the parties to agree. But where we can cooperate, and as the representative of Navarsete asked questions, are among other things. in research and innovation, that part. Part of the new threat scene is cybersecurity and cyberterrorism. We can cooperate with NATO, we can cooperate with the EU, we can cooperate with the Nordic Council, where we are a member. I feel that this is a major issue, both in Finland, Sweden and Denmark, and it is a topic in the EU. So far, Norway has not been a major contributor to NATO's cybercentre in Estonia. It's also a civil sector. We have more opportunities to cooperate, and I also feel more interested in becoming part of that cooperation with NATO. What does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think about further cyber cooperation?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e470	This is one of the areas frequently discussed between NATO and the EU for a good division of labour between the two organisations. And it's quite right, as the representative says, that there are several countries that have taken the initiative of different Centres of Expertise and Excellence. Norway is constantly assessing both participation and not least financial contributions, because we believe that this is an important part of what we can solve together at European level, either through NATO or in the EU. It is also quite right that some of these themes are of such a nature that they are not primarily military — a part of them too — but that is precisely why this cooperation and division of labour between the EU and NATO are important in this area. I also want to add that in recent years, NATO has taken a much greater responsibility for the cyber domain and has now defined it as its own domain, and has also defined that cyberattacks can constitute an Article 5 situation in extreme cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e479	I understand that the council had many questions to answer in their five minutes, so I'm going to give her the opportunity to answer two of the four questions I asked. The government is working to establish a so-called voluntary house, which can facilitate active work towards the EU institutions of civil society in Norway, which are affected by ongoing processes, especially in Brussels. The second of the four questions I would like to raise here is: Will the government take the initiative for political treatment and thus pay more attention to the political work in Brussels throughout Norway, also outside the Grand Duchy, so that we can get a greater proportion of Norwegian citizens involved in the European conversation?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e488	In no way was it meant not to answer the good questions the representative Stoknes had, so let me go through some of them very quickly. One is the house of volunteering. I will not decide whether it should be established in Norway, but the reality is that we have a very large Norwegian environment in Brussels, at Norway House. I visited them last night. There were over a hundred people present, and they represented everything from Norwegian regions to educational institutions, municipalities, businesses – a large network also from civil society that is involved in learning about and influencing Europe, and what I think is very positive; they are very committed. That commitment is very much like what we also want to have around in Norway when we discuss European issues. That was one of the reasons why when the government launched the new EU strategy, we did so at an open lunch meeting outside here, also in order to widen the debate. I would also like to answer another question the representative had, and it was about expanding diplomatic work in the EU. The EU delegation is the largest outdoor station we have – a kind of central government in miniature – and it is very important for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e499	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e504	Norway has a ambiguous relationship with the EU. We're inside and outside. As a third country, we are closely integrated into both Europe's economy and policy. In this cooperation, the EEA Agreement has been the main carrier since it was signed more than 25 years ago. The agreement is important for both Norwegian business, workplaces and well-being. As the representative of Huitfeldt said earlier in the debate, the EEA Agreement has, despite its shortcomings and problems, served us well. According to jus expert Fredrik Sejersted, it has been a stable but sufficiently flexible framework. Having said that, I think it's important to note that the agreement provides a space for action that we could probably take advantage of even better nationally. The various agreements with the EU are important both for foreign policy and domestic policy. They affect most areas of society. I will address one that is particularly important, namely research and innovation. The EEA Agreement, the formal inclusion, allows Norway to participate in the world’s largest research and innovation funding programme, the EU Horizon 2020 programme. This brings together actors from different countries, disciplines and sectors to seek project funding. Norwegian participation in the EU Programme is important by accessing the knowledge and experience needed to address societal challenges we face. We're also given the opportunity to cooperate with some of the best in the world in their fields, and we're raising ourselves internationally. In addition, we are involved in developing the EU's own research and innovation policies and ensuring that EU priorities coincide with Norwegian needs. It has taken time, and it has required targeted work in the sector, but it is all the more gratifying that Norwegian researchers and innovation environments have now reached the goal of getting home 2 pst. of the EU funds at risk of competition. That doesn't mean that the government should feel free to knock on the chest and rest on the laurels. The most important work here has been done by the sector itself. And in the future, resources need to be set up to facilitate the strengthening of Norwegian participation. We have major global challenges to solve that Norway cannot deal with in isolation: climate and environment, welfare systems under pressure and social inequality, etc. I think it is appropriate to quote the nine Norwegian university rectors who had a recent appeal to the government, where, in order to solve the challenges facing us, it is said that Norway must ‘put a strong emphasis on knowledge’ and ‘increase pressure both in its own budgets and towards the EU’. We are now expected to contribute more to the EU's efforts, but we also need to strengthen and further develop our own educational and research institutions. Then I will round off using a particularly important example: digitisation that drives social development. The government now says that the new EU programme will help to develop the jobs of the future in the field of digitalisation, and Norway will be the leader in using digital opportunities in all sectors – important objectives, but the government has a long way to go. Not only does it have the responsibility for real decline in research appropriations, but the warning lights for ICT and digital literacy light up, for example. the state of the art report on higher education, which shows that basic ICT research in Norway is at rest, ICT Norway, which says that we have major challenges in ensuring adequate ICT skills in the future, and NHO Competence, which says that small and medium-sized enterprises, in particular, of which Norway is full, are not able to acquire sufficient ICT skills. So to round off, I expect increased efforts and much more active government policies in this important area for the conversion of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e521	First, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the Council of State for a good presentation. In particular, I think there is reason to draw attention to the way the statement has been made, how the Foreign Minister, via the prime minister, invites several governments to contribute their shares. For those who call for a wider debate in the country in general, we could start with this room, because this gives us the opportunity to involve our party colleagues and all the representatives to participate in a debate in which the vast majority of the committees have shares – it is within the work of the Business Committee, the Justice Committee, the Energy and Environment Committee, the Transport Committee, the Education Committee, just to name a few. We must not necessarily believe that such a debate should be conducted exclusively by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy. There are important issues here for the vast majority of the committees, which affect us in every way possible. In this way, the conversation could be spread both politically and, of course, to a much greater extent in public space. I'm going to pay attention to something that several life experts often touch in their column, like taking the marriage a little too far. It may also be the case with the EEA Agreement. I think there is every reason to lift the importance of the EEA Agreement, and I have to say that I am surprised that there are parties and representatives in this Chamber who talk down the EEA Agreement and in this way make it very difficult for export-lived businesses to maintain jobs and thus ensure well-being – that you do not see the real meaning of the EEA Agreement. Some believe that there is a possibility to exchange and shop for different types of agreements in the form of a free trade agreement. I think it might be wise to challenge those representatives who put too many questions in the EEA Agreement, what a free trade agreement really is, and what dramatic consequences it would have for, for example. Mapei in North Odal, which says that the EEA Agreement is vital to them. We'll find that kind of business in all the counties. Mapei even says that they're $150 million. kr that they invest in the enterprise, without an EEA agreement, would be invested in neighbouring Sweden. This means that carpenters, masons, other craftsmen and a number of other local community workers in the districts would not have had work, contributed tax money, and thus failed to secure our basis for maintaining and further developing the well-being of the Norwegian society that we are serving. The EEA Agreement provides Norway with market access to 31 other countries with approx. 500 million inhabitants. Sweden, Germany, the United Kingdom, just to mention some of our most important partners, some here will cause uncertainty about. You can't choose from the four freedoms and say that we just take a little bit or half of something and shop around. The EEA Agreement gives Norway, and therefore our enterprises, jobs. It ensures the well-being, as it does for Mapei, and as it does for NorDan on Moi, which says that the consequences of e.g. brexit, or that they do not have or have in place such an agreement with the United Kingdom – what is ensured by the EEA Agreement today – will make the future of the enterprise very uncertain. It is to scald and choose with jobs in District Norway. I am very surprised that some parties are playing out this card and believe that there are other solutions in the form of free trade agreements. I ask you to show Stortinget what it means to have a free trade agreement and not an EEA agreement. It is clear that it can be improved, but giving signals that the EEA Agreement will be renegotiated means giving signals that it should be zeroed out. The EEA Agreement is the most important agreement we have with our European partners. It is the bearer of the cooperation we have with Europe, thus ensuring Norwegian well-being and the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e537	We must look at our relationship with Europe and the EEA Agreement in a broader geopolitical perspective. Today, the international situation in many areas is more demanding than ever over these 25 years with the EEA. We see a United States going out of international agreements, undermining the WTO, razing with trade wars and threatening European businesses with Iran sanctions. We see several of our European neighbours who are still struggling to overcome the economic downturn following the financial crisis. The question we have to ask ourselves in this situation is how best to safeguard the basis of our trade, our competitiveness and our well-being. It may not be possible by bringing further uncertainty to the ground – for us and for our partners – by so questioning our most important international agreement, the EEA Agreement. What we should do, on the contrary, is to offer more in this cooperation in areas that are important to us, for example. in research cooperation, in climate cooperation and in the development of a more social dimension in cooperation in Europe. It would strengthen cooperation as a whole. It would strengthen our role as a credible and stable partner in a new landscape, where others bring uncertainty to the table. Brexit experience is so far that it is possible to withdraw from EU cooperation, but not as easily to leave European integration, because the real driving forces of integration are economics, trade and internationalisation. The political construction works, the institutions and the decisions are the frameworks to govern and regulate the real driving forces. This is what the British are going to leave. The other driving forces are more difficult to escape. When the British voted in favour of leaving the EU in 2016, it awakened euphoria among EEA opponents in this country. Finally, we should see that there was a better agreement with the EU than our EEA Agreement. But we still hear nothing about what should be better with a new agreement, and for whom a new agreement should be better than the one we have. For Norwegian export companies there is at least no better model, for the core of the EEA Agreement is, after all, a friction-free access to our most important and largest export market. In addition, it extends our rights and opportunities across Europe: a common labour market and opportunities to enjoy its otium in warmer areas of health care security, to mention something. I encourage everyone who looks at the brexit of leadership in European policy to take over what is happening. What the British want is a trade agreement with the EU that is as close to what they have today as possible. They will continue to cooperate in, for example: the Chemicals Agency and the Aviation Safety Agency. Yes, they will even continue to participate in the energy cooperation in ACER. The representative Lightbakken was concerned about right-wing nationalism in some countries of Eastern Europe. That's all there's to it. But does the representative think it would be easier to justify this development if these countries were outside the EU and were not challenged, as they are now, by the Commission and the other Member States? Finally, a word about what is perceived as the Prime Minister's invitation to the British to join us in the EEA. We must remember that the EEA Agreement is an agreement designed to enable the then six EFTA countries to be integrated into the internal market without having to become members of the EU, because at that time no one thought it would be relevant. It is not designed as an agreement for countries that want to leave EU cooperation. That is why I believe that the Prime Minister's statements, as they are perceived, are at least not in line with what the Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his statement: "The government is very happy to debate the EEA Agreement, but we are not putting it at risk." In today's situation, our task must be to protect the EEA Agreement. It is here to ensure our relationship, Iceland and Liechtenstein with European cooperation. It is not designed to solve the challenges of a country that will leave this cooperation, and I hope the British realize it as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e556	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e561	The EEA Agreement has been a good agreement for Norway for the last 25 years. It has promoted growth and well-being, and it has not least been a mechanism for a peaceful problem-solving in Europe. It's this representative Lysbakken calls a false economic idea. No, that's not it. If you're going to use the notion of a false economic idea, it's about the economics that SV and its mother party have been based on. The results have spoken their clear language. It is a national task to fence around the EEA Agreement. The EEA Agreement is the cornerstone of Norwegian European policy. It provides Norwegian enterprises with access to a market consisting of 31 countries, under common framework conditions, and not least addresses cross-border problems in a good way related to the environment and, in particular, civil protection. In fact, in one day 25 million inhabitants of Europe receive fresh fish from Norway from Norwegian fish exporters, made possible by a veterinary code and the absence of delaying border crossings. But the EEA Agreement is much more than just market access. It gives us important rights and opportunities in Europe to study, research and work. It is in our national interest to cooperate with Europe. Without EEA access, Norwegian enterprises will have labour shortages, and our market access to Norway’s largest market will be made difficult, almost impossible. This agreement actually gives the Nordics opportunities that we could only dream of before we entered into the EEA Agreement. Termination of this agreement, which is really the logical consequence of the left-hand side and unfortunately the central party's reasoning, will have serious consequences for a small, open economy like the Norwegian one. The government has an active European policy. What is good for Europe is good for Norway. Europe is our cultural, commercial and security policy community, of which we have every interest to continue to be a part. The alternatives to the EEA Agreement are Norwegian protectionism, based on the fact that each country manages better for itself than with others. History has taught us that this is wrong. It has also been shown to be wrong for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e574	Last Thursday we celebrated May 17th. We celebrated the Constitution. We celebrated Norway's independence. There's a clear line from the Eigensvollsmen, from President Christie, who looks like the big room, who looks at all of us who have the Basic Law lying on the desk – everyone. The Constitution makes it quite clear that the Stortinget cannot give sovereignty to an organisation in which Norway is not a member. Thanks to the Norwegian people and the wise decision we made in 1972, and the wise decision we made in 1994, Norway is not a member of the EU. Thus, the Storting cannot give sovereignty to either the EU or an EU body, because we are not a member of that organisation. We who sit here are held accountable in elections. The people have the power if we do something unwise or wise. A fundamental principle is popular sovereignty. In recent years, this basic principle has been circumvented and attacked several times — first with EU financial supervision, where, over a few weeks, the bulk of the population has been pressured by the fact that EU financial supervision can take binding decisions against Norwegian authorities and Norwegian financial undertakings. There was a shorter procedural period in the case of EU financial supervision than there is in the case of a mid-Norwegian crossroads in a Norwegian municipality. It was pushed through as quickly as possible, and now it can take binding decisions against Norwegian bodies in the event of a crisis. Who defines when there is a crisis? Is that the Norwegian Storing? - No, I'm not. Is that the Norwegian government? - No, I'm not. It is the Council of Ministers of the European Union that defines when there is a crisis, and they have quite different considerations to address, including: because they have a different currency – the euro and not the Norwegian krona. In ours, we experienced it again, with ACER, the European Energy Agency – a clear circumvention of the Constitutional Law. The EU Energy Agency will now be able to take decisive decisions on Norwegian energy policy. National self-determination in energy policy has been fully defined because we have built the country we have built. It has been a success story to have national control. Professor Eivind Smith, the chief adviser to the Constitutional Law, has said both times that these are clear circumventions of the Constitution, that they go across the provisions of the Constitution. Now there is a new discussion about the EU labour market agency. There is the same position that can be traced in both the Labour Party, the Right and the Advance Party: as long as it comes from the European Union, we are in favour. But dear co-representatives and president, the Constitution is a protection of our democracy, and it ensures the Norwegian people the ability to direct development in Norway, and it is time to respect the Constitution itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e587	I have said it before, and I say it again – even though I do not know whether it is politically correct from the Spokesman's Chair: not meated with the EEA agreement. I am very pleased that this government is continuing what has been clearly stated by all previous governments, namely to pursue an active European policy. There is no doubt that the EEA Agreement and the nearly 70 other agreements we have with the EU give Norway great benefits. The EEA Agreement is important for Norwegian jobs and not least for the future of the welfare country. Norway is a small country with 5 million inhabitants, but the EEA Agreement gives Norwegian enterprises access to a market with 500 million people. Most of everything exported from Norway goes to the EU. What worries me then is that someone is deliberately discussing the EEA Agreement and is also calling for a new agreement to be negotiated. I think that would be to gamble with what we actually have today. It would rather benefit us as a nation to discuss the EEA Agreement and refer to all the good examples we have of the fact that the EEA Agreement gives us both rights and opportunities that many of us take for granted. It is also important that the EEA Agreement gives Norwegian enterprises access to non-resident labour – labour that is absolutely necessary, among others. in order for Norwegian agriculture to have its crops quickly at home, or for the fishing industry in Northern Norway to be dispatched quickly from reception to market. To give some figures: Nordic companies exported in 2017 for 27.4 billion. kr – most of this for the EU. If we ate all the salmon we export ourselves, each of us had to eat three pounds of salmon every day. Fortunately, we have some people who are in favour of the EEA Agreement and who are concerned that EEA opponents are not talking about the consequences of withdrawing from the agreement for heavy sectors such as fisheries, aquaculture and the agricultural export industry. Ulriksen, Managing Director of Mo Industripark, is one of these, and I'm glad that we have such things as him. I would also like to highlight the Prime Minister's initiative towards the EU in order to strengthen the fight against labour-life crime. It is important that the government also works with a goal of promoting a working life with safety and flexibility for workers and of ensuring serious employers and proper and effective tripartite cooperation. I end with the beginning: without access to the internal market, Norwegian exporters will suffer damage, and it may weaken our own welfare growth. If one is a member of the EEA Agreement, one can actually contribute to the weakening of Norwegian district work places.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e610	I would also like to thank you for the statement. The most interesting thing about it was probably unfortunately all the foreign minister did not say. The development and prospects of the EU and cooperation in the EEA Agreement in the future are exciting. We see a strong rise in resistance to supranational governance in Europe. The regime is parked, and people all over Europe feel they are losing more of the rights to control their own lives and the country in which they live. I want to ask questions about whether the EU itself is taking the seriousness of the situation. Their future plans seem to be raging at a higher rate and scale, rather than assessing the state of things. Nor do I feel that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is assessing the prospects for the EU's increasing scale of policy and leadership areas. On the contrary, the Minister of Foreign Affairs says that the government wants increased cooperation with Brussels. The EU has, among other things: notified their ongoing work on a training package. Cooperation in education and research is important for Norway and the world as a whole. It's driving us forward, it's driving the world forward. But I wonder, what position will Norway and the Minister for Foreign Affairs take on such work? Are we at risk of joining the EU education package without going into the matter properly? What are the governments thinking about our established cooperation in the OECD and across the continent? In front of the debate we are going to have on the EU, the EEA and education, I would warn against the trend I see in the debate on the European Union. Too often there are two camps, which give a polarized and little pragmatic debate. From the point of view of the Centre Party, it is felt that either one is among those who undermine the scale and minimize the challenges, and swallows EU directives raw, regardless of the size of camels, or that one is among those who demand information and are critical, and wants our national interests to come first, without unhindered observance of what comes from the EU. Personally, I am in favour of international ambitions and the development of the world, well illustrated in the UN's sustainability goals, but I am opposed to the removal of responsibility, governance and governance from our country and national assembly. The Minister of Foreign Affairs refers to the government's new strategy. Education has not been given the place it deserves. We must work to preserve what is successful, and evaluate changes for what is not – based on our own conditions and knowledge, where final decisions are made in the Storting, in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e627	The companies at home in More and Romesdal are worried when big business politicians from some parties are seriously saying that we need to find a different solution from the EEA agreement, because it is only possible to establish a new free trade agreement? Do we have such high thoughts about our role in Europe that we think we can put pressure on the demands, with a population of barely 1 pst. by the population of the EU? Perhaps then we should look at our Great Brother United Kingdom’s efforts to find a solution that serves the country best, in connection with the EU’s deportation. It's not that simple. The reality is that few countries are as dependent on trade with other countries as Norway is. We are a small, open economy that has everything to gain on open trade channels and close relationships with our trading partners in the world. The EEA Agreement is the most important agreement we have with our European partners. The EEA Agreement links us to a wider European community, a community that is concerned with addressing the societal challenges of the future through enhanced research efforts, competitiveness and innovation. Here we play together with our European partners. Trade with the EU has enabled businesses in our and other regions to develop and create new jobs. Open trade channels are essential for enterprises, for the regions and for the nation. The uncertainty surrounding the US's construction of customs walls and the United Kingdom's brexit shows us how dependent we are on these trade agreements. It threatens our export businesses and is particularly unfortunate for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are very vulnerable to this type of trade wall and increased costs. The statistics show that the total value of Norwegian exports of goods in 2017 amounted to 843 billion. NOK 12,2 pst. from the previous year. It may provide a perspective on the importance of exports and international trade for Norway. We live in a global world. Pulling down our eyes and believing that we can preserve the welfare state of Norway by closing borders and becoming self-sufficient are at best ostrich policies. Anyone who thinks that these are political issues could like to come home with me and talk to our companies, you might realize that a strong EEA agreement is very important for the citizens of More and Romsdal to still have a job to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e638	On the part of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, it has been claimed that those who wish to have a better agreement with the EU than the current EEA Agreement do so. The chairman of the committee went so far as to call it hazardous to believe that one could get a better deal than the current EEA Agreement. At the same time, the same majority rejects any initiative to explore alternatives to the solution that one has today. One closes its eyes to what is happening in Europe today. One closes its eyes to the fact that our main trading partner has the ambition in the Brexit negotiations to regain national power in key areas of society. It's not that it's easy, it's not that we think one can choose and choose between solutions, but it's about standing up for important national interests. It's about standing up for Norwegian democracy. It is about standing up to the Norwegian Constitution, Norwegian autonomy in important areas, rather than cashing out billions to the EU and letting the copying machine go with EU directives in every respect. The centre party stands for Norwegian lorry drivers and safety on Norwegian roads. We stand up for the port workers in their fight for preferential rights of loading and unloading. We stand up for Norwegian construction workers. We stand up for what a unanimous LO Congress has said on two occasions, that Norwegian collective bargaining agreements and Norwegian labour law should prevail over EU laws in Norway. The majority of Stortinget operates wishful thinking when one considers that the decision of LO is compatible with the EEA Agreement – when it is the true opposite of the principle in the EEA today. It is the majority of the Stortinget who wish to think, when one believes that the power of the energy policy should be ensured by sending a letter to the EU for information. Two years ago, the majority in Stortinget in high-speed transport passed sovereignty over the Norwegian financial supervision of the EU. Now, an additional power for EU financial supervision to intervene in situations of conflict, to intervene in disputes on its own initiative and to settle them. One should have a governance structure that is new because, according to the European Commission, today's structure respects national interests and prevents decisions for the benefit of the EU. So this is what the majority of people have joined in the past, and what the Foreign Minister commented on very briefly in his speech. I would like to ask the government to clarify whether it is appropriate to give new sovereignty to the EU in this field in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e651	After hearing the Minister for Foreign Affairs' statement, and not least following the pattern of action of the majority in this Chamber over a period of time, one question arises: Is the EU the solution to all the challenges of the country? To put it another way: is there any area in society where the EU is not the solution? Not if one should believe the Right and the Advance Party – and they are far in good company, for the EU, on its part, also has virtually one solution to all challenges, namely to develop and implement one single market policy. We are gradually beginning to get enough examples of this combination of Norwegian policies, namely that the majority reduces our own space of action on important national issues and leaves the formulation of policies and legislation – in areas by area – to the EU. In practice, we do not have a debate on whether EU solutions always apply to Norway. However, the blind implementation of EU directives and political structures has given us many examples. In the climate field, for example, Norway has interests other than large parts of the EU in agriculture and forestry. For Norway, this is not just about climate, it is just as about preparedness, resource use, the green shift and district policy. The EU’s climate policy on soil and forest is simply not based on the assumptions in Norway. It must therefore, of course, be a clear premise in the plans for emission reductions that they also apply here. It would have been nice if the government here and now could announce that it would put its foot down and take care of important Norwegian interests in the forestry sector, as the majority points out in the Climate Change Communication. If the government believes that the forest is an important part of the green shift in Norway, it must actually – and actively – facilitate this. Following the EU unconditionally – including here – will not enable forestry to be the key of climate policy in the future. Here you have to follow up in practice, and the Central Party expects the government to do so. Unfortunately, the Acer case showed that the Right and Advance Party guarantees are of little value. When it turns out that taking care of Norwegian interests in practice is producing unilateral declarations here at Stortinget, and then sending them as a polite greeting to the EU, it becomes difficult to believe in the ability to stand up to Norwegian interests in meeting with the EU. Taking care of Norwegian interests is sometimes about drawing a clear line where the border goes — and then standing by it. It is a question of obtaining guarantees and, in the case of the Acer case, of obtaining guarantees recognised by both parties. Unilateral declarations by the majority of the population are not binding in international law; they are hardly worth the paper they are written on. I therefore hope that the government will take note of the majority of the comments in the Climate Action Communication on forestry, and will take care of those interests in a proper way. It does not hold with one-sided, good wishes from the Norwegian side. It's too easy, and it's not credible.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e668	I noticed that the representative Schlagsvold Vedum was inspired by the image we so often consider here. I would remind you that it was not exactly the kind of constitutional conservatism that brought democracy forward. The painter Oscar Wergeland painted it as a contribution to the ongoing debate on national law against the Ministry of Selmer. After the Storting had forced both the councils to meet and introduced parliamentaryism, it was possible to enter the Constitution as late as this century. So new times will require new interpretations. Relying on constitutional conservatism for political purposes will actually hinder development. In this debate, I have sensed a tone from the Centre Party – and also from SV, to the extent that they had the opportunity to participate – namely that brexit should be used as a breaker bar to get Norway out of the EEA Agreement. As far as the internal market is concerned, we are part of it. It's well known in this room. So we are on the side that negotiates the freedoms, principles and assumptions of the internal market towards a member who is going to leave the EU and the EEA. What may have been referred to is that the United Kingdom’s position will be somewhat similar to the EEA position during the transitional period which will take place between 29 March 2019 and the final exit on 31 December 2020. It is then that the United Kingdom will have to respect the dispute resolution mechanisms. They are full-fledged members of the internal market and also participate in harmonised regulatory work until the last day. But they step out of political cooperation, so it is right to parallel that transition period with a de facto EEA state. But that doesn't mean you can register in the EEA as if there was a club you can join. It is not a conclusion agreement, it is a fully agreed convention between three identified parties that form part of the EFTA cooperation. The access to EFTA is different, as there is a possibility to have more arrangements for the internal market and the EU. This is a good example of Switzerland.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e676	We live in a world that is becoming increasingly open. In the world, Norway is a small and vulnerable player. Both Norwegian companies and the public sector have been given the opportunity to work in Norway. At the same time, Norwegian workers can enjoy and benefit from working in Europe. Without extra hands at work and access to the EU market — the domestic market of Norwegian enterprises — it is difficult to imagine a Norway with equally rapid growth, high employment and thriving business. It is a fact that Norway’s close relationship with the European Community is crucial for Norwegian jobs. The EEA Agreement is indispensable for a small country such as Norway. About 80 pst. of our total exports go to the EU, 70 pst. of what we buy, comes from there, and every day there are over 170 train trains with sea food across the border of Europe. Norwegian youth can study freely in Europe; Norwegian companies can supply tenders in Europe; Norwegians have important rights to help with disease in Europe; Nordics are guaranteed important social rights in Europe; Norwegian carriers ensure access to Europe in the air, to water and on land. We're not going to take that for granted. Our relationship with the EU and the EU market is not just important for Norwegian jobs. It is crucial for the Norwegian economy. If you doubt Norway's most important agreement, you have to be aware of what a player is playing, and what a putter is in the pot. We cannot and should not gamble with the lives of individuals and businesses in that way. The EEA Agreement also has an important aspect other than fundamental freedoms. The EU has also become one of our most important partners in the fight against crime at work. Our open economy makes us vulnerable to black work, organized criminal networks and to unprofessional actors across borders. This is a problem that the government has addressed with the EU on several occasions. Combating crime at work is one of the top priorities of the government in the field of working life. That is why I am pleased that the EU is now in the process of establishing the European Labour Market Agency, ELA. The Agency aims to ensure that our common rules on labour mobility are enforced in a fair, simple and effective manner. This initiative should be welcomed by Norway in order to strengthen European cooperation against crime at work. It is important that the Agency respects national competences as it is now intended. In the right, measures are positive to strengthen the fight against cross-border labour crime, while at the same time facilitating the provision of good cross-border services by serious actors. In order to safeguard Norwegian jobs and to combat crime at work, it is essential to maintain the EEA Agreement and Norway’s strong link with the European Community. The greatest challenges of our time require global solutions. Then we have to interact more, not less.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e693	The leader of the European Movement, Heidi Nordby Lunde, sent us on 9 May to book Fear’s continent – how Europeans began to trust each other. In the foreword by Frank Rossavik, it is called, among other things,\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘Today, we can also point to the euro as a remarkable result, rather a remarkable loss: a single currency without a common fiscal policy to support it. [[...]] It allowed for a serious debt crisis [[...]] These are strong marine perceptions from Rossavik, who have been alerted by the then management of the European movement to write the foreword to the anniversary book. However, the reason for this is that the European Movement, a member of the European Movement, is working to realise the statutory objective of the organisation, namely the United States of Europe – the EU must thus become an economic and political union. This should be said by the leader of the European Movement with a loud voice, but it does not happen, she is not even in the Chamber. Why? The EU Member States have not, many countries have adopted the euro, while the economic conditions of the countries are very different. The euro will therefore become a coercive street. One might, for example: look at Italy, with extremely high government debt, 130 pst. of gross domestic product. The consequence is that a very EU-critical government is now being established. This coercion — the euro — creates social and political unrest. It gives rise to major party political shocks. Old state-supporting political parties are weakening, most strongly social democrats. Greece, France and the Netherlands are good examples, now also Germany. It is dramatic and should disturb the Workers' Party. For me, it is almost unreal that the Foreign Minister's statement does not analyse the causes of the growing economic and political unrest in many EU countries with the euro. Following the assessment of the Centre Party, a major cause of the systemic error is the single currency without a common finance ministry. And the system error is not corrected, because EU countries have no popular support for a political union with, among other things. the right of taxation of persons and businesses. The EU is therefore at the cutting party. People's abstinence in EU countries will increase, and social and political unrest will increase. It is a fundamental mistake to connect Norway more and more closely to Europe, where EU problems are increasing. The EU labour market agency shall be a monitoring body in line with ACER – more than 30 such agencies in different areas within the EU. The aim is to create an EU with even stronger interconnected legislation, which will also apply to Norway as an EEA country. This challenges the Norwegian model of working life, which has ensured high labour productivity, more empathetic conditions in the labour market and better cooperation between the social partners. The Norwegian model is the result of political conflict, where majority decisions in Stortinget have stoned stones. This laboriously politically structured construction work is now under increasing pressure as a result of the EEA Agreement, with the freest possible migration of labour. The consequence is that the Norwegian model is confused and destroyed over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e709	I redrawed myself to follow up the line change with the Foreign Minister instead. So when the government has opened up the UK to become part of the EEA Agreement, my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs was whether this would provide an opportunity for the UK to negotiate what a future EEA agreement would look like. I understand that the answer I received is that in that case Norway will say that negotiations on the EEA Agreement are not up to date. That's what I think is alarming. It is important to clarify whether that is actually the government’s position, i.e. that even in a situation where negotiations can be opened on what the EEA Agreement should look like between the United Kingdom and the EU, Norway will unilaterally oppose its negotiation, and Norway will say no to any possibility of participating in any form of renegotiation of the EEA Agreement. If I have misunderstood, it is fine if the Foreign Minister corrects it. If I have not misunderstood, that means that in practice the government opens up a renegotiation of the EEA Agreement, which they have always said is impossible. So let's get ready what's right. Otherwise, I would like to ask you a question that the Foreign Minister mentioned in his statement, and that is the opportunity to discuss at least one of the presentation debates each year with several government councils. We are in favour of that, I think I could create a broader and even more concrete debate, so I think that is a good initiative. SV will vote for the proposal of the Central Party, not because we are as busy as the Liv Signe Navarsete of being NATO in the North, but because we think it is wise that that kind of cooperation is discussed in the Stortinget. Finally, something that has not been the subject of today, but in the statement the Minister for Foreign Affairs announced that the government is in favour of making the agreement on climate cooperation concluded by Norway with the EU part of the voluntary part of the EEA Agreement. I assume that there will be a separate treatment in Stortinget. But I would warn against adding that agreement to the EEA. SV is against the agreement initially, because it is a tool to buy us free of obligations instead of pursuing a strong, own climate policy. However, by making the climate agreement part of the EEA Agreement, we are also at risk that parts of our economy and business that are currently clearly excluded – agriculture, fisheries – will be seen more as EEA-relevant by ESA and the EU. I would warn against that, and that is why I believe that there is a need for a major and own debate on whether the climate agreement might become part of the EEA.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e720	I didn't get everything in five minutes, so I have to say a little bit about the brexit in these three minutes. When the United Kingdom chose to leave the EU, the Norwegian government was busy explaining that, of course, only the resistance to immigration was behind. It is wrong - it has been shown that it was wrong. I believe that Norway must have the most loyal EU government in Europe. First, warn against the United Kingdom leaving the EU, then an EFTA refused to send letters to invite to cooperation after Brexit, so threaten to block any UK EFTA membership, and then, after strong pressure from Norwegian business, the Norwegian hold was changed to allow Norway, of course, to cooperate with the United Kingdom, but the United Kingdom itself had to find out what they wanted. In the announcement, the Council of State also said that she had to talk to Commissioner Barnier – as she probably did yesterday – to right when the United Kingdom could possibly negotiate with Norway. So here's a very loyal one. The government has been negative to integrate the United Kingdom into the EEA Agreement, but then the Prime Minister has opened it up. Here one has gone from one page to the other, it's hard to see a consistent policy. When the Prime Minister says that they are cordially welcome, there had to be a cold shower for the leader of the EEA Committee, the representative Hansen, who also asked questions about it in his contribution. I would like to ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs in his speech – I see she has signed – to do well for the government's collective view on this matter. I also want to follow up the clear questions from the last speaker. It is interesting to hear what the government actually thinks about the EEA Agreement and any renegotiation. There is no doubt that this government is adapting Norway in all areas where one can, as much as possible and preferably without including the Storting. Circumvention of the Constitution is no doubt that one is in the process, by adapting and joining the various agencies. Nor is it the case that one of the governments follows up to preserve Norwegian sovereignty. When, for example: The EU Energy Agency, the elected Government and the Minister for Oil and Energy, Terje Søviknes, do not even have to attend a meeting with the EU Energy Ministers when the future power of the Acer and the additional transfer of sovereignty to the Agency was the subject of a meeting in Sofia. Not even the Secretary of State was able to meet, and that in a matter that is so important to Norway, and in a situation where the government claims that one has an active European policy. In the celebration of the EEA Agreement – to which we are a witness from the Right, the Progress Party and the Labour Party today – one should be able to expect that one more than we see from the government today will be of Norwegian interest.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e737	Norwegian foreign policy begins in Europe. The European countries are Norway's closest ally, and Europe is our main trading partner. We are in agreement on a number of issues of international policy, and our European community of interests and values forms the basis for cooperation with Europe's institutions and member countries in the international arena, not least in our common neighbourhood. Cooperation with Europe is also a tool of Norwegian domestic policy. The government platform points to six major challenges facing our society. We're going to convert the Norwegian economy meet Norway’s climate obligations; create an inclusive working life ensuring good welfare arrangements; reducing poverty and exclusion implement an integration promise; All these challenges have a European dimension. Norway is a small, open economy, living from exports of goods and services — oil and gas, fish, metals, wood and advanced offshore technologies, to name a few. The EEA Agreement gives us access to a market of 500 million people. It's 100 times larger than the Norwegian market. And without access to labour from other EEA countries, many Norwegian farms would have stopped, especially in fisheries and agriculture. Without access to the EU internal market, Norwegian companies would have major problems. 80 pst. of all the goods we sell abroad are sold to Europe. 60 pst. of all the goods we buy from abroad come from Europe. The EEA Agreement provides for opportunities that we would never have had without this agreement – if we had not become full members, then! We have free access to the European study and labour market, we get safer food, cheaper use of the Internet, better rights for consumers, access to healthcare in Europe, access to research and development that strengthens our businesses. For the South, the EEA Agreement is extremely important. We have an industry and a business that is mainly export oriented, and the messages from the companies in both the city and the countryside are that saying no to the EEA is to gamble with Norwegian jobs and the welfare state's future. But perhaps more important than a single market is the peace project Europe. At the end of my speech, I would like to quote from a speech delivered in the European Parliament on 25 March this year by a Spanish politician named Esteban González Pons: Europe is not a market; it is the will to live together. Leaving Europe is not leaving a market; it is leaving common dreams. We can have a single market, but if we don't have common dreams, we have nothing. Europe is the collection created after World War II. It is the Brotherhood between French and Germans, freedom for Greece, Spain and Portugal, the fall of the Berlin Wall, the end of communism. Europe is the welfare state. Europe is democracy. In today's troubled world, it's important to remind ourselves of this. There's more cooperation we need, not less.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e779	The EU is working to expand its scope and areas of policy. While several countries may need to develop their road and rail policies, there are implications for Norway for the EU’s road package and rail directives that we, as elected representatives of the UK, are responsible for elucidating, evaluating and concluding the benefits of society. Municipalities and several associations have warned against the impact of EU road package proposals and freight transport in Norway. The proposal includes, inter alia: until non-resident carriers can carry out transport operations without restriction within other countries for a five-day period. In addition, the requirement to carry out so-called cabotage operations will be much lower. In practice, the EU proposal means full release of foreign freight along Norwegian roads. It will mean widespread social dumping and more dangerous Norwegian roads. EU rules on freight have already created massive problems in the transport sector in Norway. Both Norwegian Transport Workers’ Association and Norway’s Lastebileier-Verbund have repeatedly demonstrated how cabotage rules lead to social dumping, widespread crime and a serious reduction in road safety. It is totally unheard of that we are now going to make a legislation that is too bad, even worse. The centre party will fight with beaks and claws against a development where even more Norwegian drivers lose their jobs. We expect the government to do its utmost to ensure that the EU's harmful road package does not reach our borders. But with the most EU-friendly government in Norway history, we have great cause for concern. The road package was not mentioned in the statement in one single word. Road freight transport is increasing in force. That several Norwegian drivers lose their job as a result of more cabotage is a problem. A study was carried out by the Transport Economic Institute, in which they identified the number of serious road accidents on Norwegian roads and the nationality of the vehicles involved between 2007 and 2012. The statistics showed that foreign vehicle combinations were strongly overrepresented in serious accidents. Norwegian roads can, especially in wintertime, be demanding to drive heavy goods on. In the future, we need a safer and better framework for transport, not an increase in pressure and uncertainty. Changing the driving and rest periods so that drivers will have longer working days and shorter breaks will lead to safety. Whether transport can go from any country to any other country, including through third countries, we lose control. We can hope that the proposal falls within the EU, but it is a real opportunity for its adoption, and then we have to recognise the threat it poses to working conditions and road safety in Norway. I wish the government every success in the negotiations on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e798	I understand that it may be difficult to belong to parties in this minority room, but that the majority here, the majority of the population, believes that the EEA Agreement and the approximately The 70 other agreements we have with the EU, which are of Norwegian interest, are thus an expression that Norwegian interests today may be something other than what the Senterpartiet believes is. While one representative after another from the Central Party and SV is talking hot about all these alternatives to the EEA Agreement, the big question is: What should this option be good for? What's plan B? How are we going to ensure the best possible performance of Norwegian interests? What are Norwegian interests, whether it is not to safeguard Norwegian business and Norwegian well-being, whether it is not to ensure that Norwegian students can go out and study, and that others can come here, if it is not to ensure high international research cooperation, if it is not to ensure cooperation in the European arena that allows us to get common solutions to common problems? We can use the world of work as an example. The EEA has helped to strengthen the rights of workers, including: requirements for written working arrangements and requirements relating to business transfer and the working environment. The initiative taken by the Prime Minister in the field of labour-life crime, which has been well received in the EU, is perhaps the very best example of cross-border problems that need to be resolved jointly, and where we are too small to solve them alone – just as Sweden and Germany are. When it comes to standing up for Norwegian interests, that's exactly what the government and the majority of people do. We stand up for the interests that help us in Norway to have the opportunity to pursue a policy that also ensures the welfare of the future. On the issue of the EU's increasing scale of policy, which was a bit concerned with the previous speaker: well, it comes because EU countries want more policy at European level. They see that the need is there. It's not something anyone can think of; it's there because the need is reported and you can see that the pan-European solutions are the best. Finally – once again to the question of brexit: we are not in the negotiations, it is a natural consequence that we are not a member of the European Union, but we follow the debates carefully, of course. And as I was in several of my previous answers, the situation is now that the United Kingdom has repeatedly rejected a solution that is part of the internal market and the four freedoms. So it is not a question of negotiation at present, and it is not likely that it will be in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e813	Michael Tetzschner has spoken twice before in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e818	This small remark is just to remind our colleagues here in the Chamber that, when they describe the misery in the EU, they actually describe our closest neighbouring country in the Nordic region: Sweden, Finland, Denmark – Finland is even a euro member. I have had the pleasure of participating in international parliamentary cooperation in the Nordic Council – they are not talking about the misery of the EU; they are talking about everything they get, about pride in having a competition commissioner, Danish Vestager, who imposes billions of fines on the large global multinational companies. What legal formation without commitment cooperation that we have done in the EU could stand up to the big players? It is precisely the civilisation of the free play of cancers that also recognises the social dimension, which bears the EU's cooperation. Otherwise, I just want to say to the representative of Navarsete: the United Kingdom cannot be incorporated into the EEA Agreement as we know it. It's that simple.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e825	Finally, the representative, Tetzschner, who only hears praises about the EU when he is in international meetings: well, it may be a little about who you are talking to. If you talk to people on the ground who experience the EU and the consequences of EU policies, you will see that there is growing resistance in ever-new countries in Europe. There were over 17 million Britons who voted for the British to leave the EU. To the issue of the EEA Agreement – it appears here almost as if the world started with the EEA and will end up not continuing the EEA: the centre party is for international cooperation. Norway has been active in international cooperation for decades, long before we received the EEA Agreement. Norway had full duty-free access to the EU market from 1977 for all industrial products. In the field of fisheries, the difference between our old agreements and the EEA Agreement meant market access of around EUR 15 million. 2 pst. in customs loads – not the big difference. Norway participates in international cooperation through the WTO. We also participate in other types of international cooperation, related to both trade and other policy issues. Cooperation with the EU will not end if Norway does not participate in EEA cooperation. Here, research and educational cooperation have been referred to several times, and so did we before the EEA Agreement. Not only Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein as EEA countries participate in educational cooperation with the EU – it is Switzerland, and it is also Israel for that matter. There are several other countries participating in both research and education programmes. Norway has more than 70 agreements with the EU. What we're discussing here is whether it makes sense to remain a member of the EEA, where one party adopts the rules and the other party only has to accept them. To the discussion on the EEA Agreement, brexit and what is going to happen there: I fully agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that the UK has rejected the EEA Agreement emphatically. They do so wisely in the EEA Agreement. The EEA Agreement is an agreement whereby one party accepts rules designed by the other party. We in the Central Party are very pleased that both Prime Minister Theresa May and opposition leader Jeremy Corbyn are clearly opposed to the EEA. But what I hope the Foreign Minister will be able to clarify here in the Chamber is that the invitation that has now been given to the British to join the EEA still makes it clear that you can join the EFTA cooperation, if the British stand firm against EEA cooperation. One will then still be able to contribute to giving negotiating power. One may contribute to market access vis-à-vis the United Kingdom if the United Kingdom is involved in EFTA cooperation outside the EEA. There should be an invitation from the Norwegian side.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e836	I think it was the representative Foss who said that our international cooperation starts in Europe and the EU is our closest trading partner. Yeah, who in this room doesn't agree with that? All of us agree with that. Norway has never been or will not be related to European countries and to the EU. It is clear that we have a relationship with European countries and with the European Union. It is clear that they are an important part of our international cooperation. I have to say that I'm reacting a little to a number of posts that Right-wing spokespersons here have, because they seem to have been designed in such a way that they're going to place everyone who's not in favour of EU membership or of the EEA Agreement in a booth where they're not involved in international cooperation either. I think that is really a prelude to the debate on the Right. It is also a little sad, because it closes up something this debate could be, namely a willingness to discuss the dynamics, the enlargement, the changes that are taking place and that challenge the borders of the EEA Agreement. I think that is a debate you should reflect on, whether one is a member of the EEA or an opponent of the EEA. One must be able to reflect on the fact that a series of supervision is now being established, where, on the whole, supervision confers new tasks without being anchored in decisions in the different Member States. One must be able to reflect on the fact that cabotage rules can be changed in such a way that a simple – not to say destroyer, but – creates transport markets in the various countries that are very difficult social and working in terms of driver conditions. Someone must be able to reflect on it. One must be able to reflect on the type of work a sheep has if one allows social dumping within the European Union and the EEA. One must be able to reflect on what it means if one links the climate agreement that we are going to have with the EU, to the EEA and thus draws agriculture and forestry into the EEA Agreement in a way that we said we should not do when the EEA Agreement was adopted. One must be able to reflect on what it means that one should also be more involved in defence cooperation. One must be able to ask questions about whether this is in line with what people said about the basis for our relationship with the EU. One must be able to reflect on the fact that the EEA Agreement is in the process of becoming something other than what the Stortinget said yes to in 1992. And it's true, as representatives of the Center Party have said here, that this government doesn't seem to reflect on this at all. It only adapts where it is possible to adapt, and it also circumvents the Constitutional sovereignty decisions in a way that is severely criticised, not least by legal expertise.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e846	I want to reflect a little and lift my eyes. It is now exactly 70 years since some 800 delegates and observers met in The Hague to work for a European community based on peace, freedom, democracy and respect for fundamental human rights. With the Second World War as a backdrop, they saw the need for closer cooperation between citizens, civil society and political decision-makers to work for a safe, free and economically strong and responsible Europe. They acknowledged that what we are weaving together as human beings is not only trade agreements, but also real cross-border interaction – an interaction that is not only about a strong national identity but also about our identity as people in a cultural, civil and political context. It is not just the Constitution that protects Norwegian identity and independence. Our freedom and independence, as we celebrate on 17 May, is also ensured by a safe and stable Europe. Saying it's not a prelude to the debate. Despite its shortcomings and shortcomings, European interaction has resulted in strong national states developing well-being through an economic growth that has given a historically secure and stable Europe that cooperates and jointly takes responsibility for addressing the greatest challenges of our time, which are linked to democracy, climate, migration and the maintenance of our common European values. Those who say that Norway could have a better agreement than the EEA Agreement are of course right. We should be full members. However, as others have said here, a better agreement with the EU is probably wishful thinking. Not only because we would be served with full membership, but also because I believe that the EU would be served with Norwegian membership. The EU sees Nordic solutions as a model for the development of its own policies – from our Nordic force cooperation, where Norway is fully integrated with the EU countries Sweden, Finland and Denmark, into gender equality policies. Former Minister of Children and Family Grete Berget was a true European. It is her ideas that are passed on when the EU introduces minimum parental leave requirements. We're affecting. That is why we should sit around the table and ensure that the policy is optimal for Europe's 500 million inhabitants. There would have been international solidarity in practice — especially at a time when international conditions are as unstable as they are now. Norway shall work for a safe, free and economically strong and responsible Europe – it is in Norwegian interest. The interests we had worked best for within our European community, not by standing outside it. I heard that the representative Gülsvik mentioned several individual industries he stands up for. In 2016 Hedmark and Uppland exported for 8.5 billion. kr to EEA country. Telemark companies sold goods for 10 billion. kr, so did Sogn and Fjordane. Nordic companies exported for 20 billion. kr. Coastal and inland — it provides jobs across the country. The companies that do not sell abroad often sell to those who do. When I stand up for the EEA, I stand up for jobs all over the country. When I stand up for the EEA, I stand up for Norway as a whole. The leader of the European Movement is in the Chamber, but here she is primarily the representative of the right and the whole of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e859	The question – whether we have to renegotiate the EEA Agreement – raised by the representative of Audun Lysbakken, if what we consider to be unlikely would happen, is that the United Kingdom wants an EEA solution. What has to happen then is that the United Kingdom has to apply for EFTA membership, for the EEA Agreement is an agreement between three EFTA countries – Norway, Liechtenstein and Switzerland – and the EU. Since the conclusion of the EEA Agreement, the EEA has been extended many times with new countries. Every time the EU has been enlarged by a new Member State, the EEA has also been enlarged. It is in the membership agreement for new EU countries that they should also be part of the EEA. So there is absolutely no need for a renegotiation of the EEA Agreement if it becomes a new Member State. In addition, the United Kingdom is an agreement with the EU in areas not covered by the EEA Agreement: agricultural policy and fish. The representative of Navarsete called for the protection of Norwegian interests. We, as supporters of the EEA Agreement, believe that it is a care of Norwegian interests: trade interests and the importance of being able to participate in integration in Europe, to mention two things. When I hear the debate on the importance of protecting Norwegian sovereignty, etc., I wonder where we are going to find better allies and partners than the EU countries for what is important to Norway and which we are all concerned with, for example. combating climate change, meeting migratory flows, maintaining a common framework for international trade through the WTO and trade agreements and having a high level of development assistance to Africa. These are areas where our European neighbours are important partners and are at the forefront. I don't see partners in the world other than this, maybe with the exception of China, who, in combating climate problems, are doing an effort that goes a little under the radar. I fully agree with those who have mentioned that the road package is challenging. I think everyone in this Chamber agrees. At least the government has announced that they have a position to change the cabotage rules. This is a draw between east and west, between the countries of the north and south of Europe. Then you might also be able to reflect on the possibilities we have to change it in the right direction, would have been bigger if we had been a member and had been sitting at the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e870	Norway is part of Europe. That is why we should not also be involved in creating a safe, free, strong and responsible Europe. Norway is not a country that sticks its head in the sand to be ourselves good enough. We're working together. We trade with others and help solve the challenges facing the world. The EEA has served Norway well and has contributed to a better everyday life for ordinary people. Never before has it been easier and safer to travel, live, work and study across borders. In a troubled world, European cooperation and the EEA have contributed and been crucial for building strong and peaceful democracies, and the world’s most ambitious climate policy has given less emissions and more renewable energy. The EEA Agreement has given Norwegian companies access to a market of 500 million people and enormous opportunities. I am proud that my own home country, Rogaland, is among the most exporting. Trade contributes to more secure jobs across the country and billions to our common well-being, more good teachers and safe care for the elderly. Let's not risk this by doubting the EEA Agreement. European cooperation is like football, where countries are team players who work together to get the ball on target. And if we were really a football ballag, we would have topped the table, because there's hardly any international cooperation in the world with equal results in so many areas. Let's take the climate challenge as an example: emissions are going down. This does not mean that everything is perfect or that Norway agrees with everything that is proposed. This is precisely why the government has an active European policy to promote Norwegian interests. And that is why it is very good that we have a capable foreign minister who works well for close cooperation with both the EU and the United Kingdom, our main trading partners. With the Right in Government, Norway is to do – and do – the right thing: we are in charge of a safe, free, strong and responsible Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e883	I will try to summarise the discussion about what happens if the United Kingdom wants to enter into the EEA Agreement. It seems almost as if the Minister of Foreign Affairs thinks it's a little awkward that we're dealing with this, but I just want to remind you that it's the Prime Minister himself who opened this dance and started that debate. I asked for a confirmation of what I understood that the Foreign Minister said in the change of line, namely that in such a situation Norway would have no desire for, and would actually oppose, any form of renegotiation of our own terms in the EEA Agreement. I did not realize that this was contradicted in the post. I think that is an eye-catching conclusion, but it shows that the ‘yes’ parties do not really see a single problem with the EEA Agreement, that everything is fine, and that there is no reason for Norway to apply for any kind of improvement. It's a little funny when we remember the last attempt to start a debate on Norwegian EU membership, early in the 2000s, because then the misery of the EEA Agreement was the very reason from the yes side. So now the EEA Agreement is about the best of all possible worlds. I think that's a funny starting point, especially for the Workers' Party – the representative Svein Roald Hansen has made more visits in this debate – because the reason we're so concerned about this is that we want to protect Norwegian working life, want to make sure that all workers in Norway, whether they're Norwegian or have a foreign background, have freedom from social dumping. If there's one thing the Labour Party should be concerned about, then this is it. That was the most important reason why the Workers' Party was created. If the Workers' Party is not even able to see that there is a problem with the EEA Agreement, I think it is a disappointing starting point. What we should be concerned about on the left-hand side of Norway now is to provide the most powerful room for action to clean up our working life, to ensure that the differences in power and wealth go down, to ensure that no one has to stand in the hands of the boss's office, and to ensure that permanent and secure jobs become an opportunity for everyone. The EEA Agreement discourages such a policy on point by point.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e890	When the Centre Party is opposed to Norwegian EU membership and when the Centre Party asks questions about the EEA Agreement, there is someone who interprets it as opposed to trade and anti-cooperation. There is a claim that is incorrect and that is not covered by it. There are several members of the Central Party in this debate who have made good comments about our stand on the matter. I want to get into three issues that are important. Firstly, snow crabsaka – the fact that one is clear from the Norwegian side in this case, and that one does not give in to untimely demands from the EU – is a very, very important thing. The second issue concerns customs duties on aluminium and steel, where I perceive that the EU has entered into dialogue with the United States in order to find a solution and obtain an exemption, while Norway has largely only shown that entering into such a dialogue will imply an acceptance of this customs duty. So it seems to me that the EU has a more offensive attitude towards the United States than Norway has. I want to warn against such a strategy, because although Norwegian exports of steel and aluminium to the EU are currently low, there is a possible future market. It is very worrying that the EU is considering imposing customs duties on Norway in this field as well. There I expect one to come up with a solution, so Norway will not suffer from it. The third is the EU's agricultural policy. EU agricultural policy is based on customs protection, strong subsidies and liberalisation. There's a recipe for failure, there's a recipe for overproduction, and there's a recipe for industrialization, pressure on animal welfare and high use of, among other things. antibiotics. It is a warning that the EU should cut subsidies to agriculture. It will hit our neighbouring countries Sweden and Denmark hard, and it will also have an indirect impact on what is happening in Norway and the pressure on Norwegian agriculture. That is an argument that we are still going to have a strong customs protection for agricultural products entering Norway. It's a matter that the Center Party wants to follow closely forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e901	In recent years I have heard more and more managers say that it is important that the EEA Agreement be maintained and further developed. In itself, it is very good, but the fact that businesses now actually feel the need to remind politicians that this is an agreement that is vital to their business and local jobs is not good. This shows that they see a link with Europe and the internal market under pressure. The pressure comes from individual parties in this room. It is simply neither credible nor responsible that politicians in this country say in one sentence that they want an offensive industrial policy and in the other that they want to take Norway out of the EEA Agreement. As a representative from More and Romesdal, I strongly oppose any weakening or threat to the EEA Agreement. My home country is the second largest export country in the country. In order to maintain our jobs – and I mean jobs in the district, jobs that allow young people to move home, jobs that allow businesses to sponsor local volunteering, jobs that increase the population of district municipalities – the EEA Agreement and access to the European market are essential. We can be world leaders in technology, innovation and automation, but it won't help if we can't also sell our goods seamlessly, quickly and at no extra cost to the continent. All 80 pst. exports of More and Romesdal to the EU. It is in fish exports, the shipping industry, the maritime industry and the furniture industry to name a few. The fact that such large industries for our country depend on trade with Europe must in itself be more than enough to keep all the representatives in this Chamber far from thinking about leaving the EEA. With that curtain, it's incomprehensible to me how the Center Party, which claims to be a district party, can think it's right to leave our most important market, and it without an alternative to refer to. Business leaders and workers in this country underline every time I meet them, how important access to the market is, and I hope that the flows we see elsewhere in the world, with more customs and nationalism, do not move on in Norway, because we simply can't afford that in any way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e912	The representative Svein Roald Hansen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e917	I can't leave the Lysbakken claims undisputed – that we ignore labour market challenges. A common labour market in Europe, where there has been a major difference in wage levels, has given rise to challenges. But we have met the challenges of social dumping through action packages. The EEA Agreement provides room for that kind of action, has made it now, and I expect it will continue to do so. Unfair distribution is combated by national policies. Economic policy is the responsibility of countries, not the responsibility of the European Union. Then I would like those who want a renegotiation of the EEA Agreement to be specific about what they want to change. If not, it becomes a shadow debate: you throw out a claim that it is easy to get a better deal, without telling what is in the term ‘better’.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e926	To answer the representative Pollestad's questions first – now I see that he is no longer in the room, but he will still get the answer: Firstly, in the case of snow crabs, the Norwegian positions are perfectly clear. The EU cannot issue licences for the capture of snow crabs on Norwegian pedestal – it has the sovereign rights of Norway. It is also a position that we have clearly communicated to the EU, to the countries that have issued licences, and it is also a position that we have clearly communicated to the EU in connection with discussions on quota exchange. So we do not start new talks with the EU about possible quota changes until the EU changes its position. Secondly, in the case of steel and aluminium, I do not think the representative Pollestad has fully followed in the debate. We have expressed in clear order that we deeply disagree with the decision taken by the United States, and we are, of course, working against the US authorities at all levels. Last night, the Minister of Industry was in the United States and had conversations, among other things. with the US Secretary of State for Trade. But we also have a dialogue with the EU, for the simple reason that the main market for our exports of steel and aluminium is Europe. And if the EU were to introduce safeguard measures to protect itself against exports being redirected from the US market, that is what will hit Norwegian exporters the most. That is precisely why we also have dialogue with the EU, including: through Commissioner Malmström. That's a very important part of the job we're doing. Finally, let me also say that there is a difference between free trade and an agreement that ensures common rules, common standards and a level playing field. There is a great difference between the opportunities offered by Norwegian companies in two different regulatory systems. It is also important to stress once again on the issue of whether Norway should oppose an EEA-related issue: both Norway and the EU itself, i.e. the 27 other countries linked to the EEA Agreement through EU membership, and we who are it through EFTA membership, have made it absolutely clear that it is not appropriate to weaken the internal market with the four freedoms, with regulatory harmonisation. In other words, it is not appropriate to negotiate this away in order to bring the United Kingdom with it. It is therefore not a Norwegian view, or a question of whether Norway will disagree: this is the view of 30 countries, and it is the 30 countries that intend to remain in the EEA, through both EU membership and EFTA membership. And as far as I have seen from the British debate, it has not been the case for the United Kingdom to join EFTA – and that is why the whole premise is also missing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e937	The representative Live Signe Navarsete has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e942	I have a brief comment for the representative, Hansen, who called for an alternative. We have asked the Storting several times to give us an alternative, perhaps more, to the EEA Agreement. But the Storting doesn't want to be on it. So the representative Hansen and his fellows are allowed to join in and possibly join in the next time it comes up, and we're going to discuss it and also have the opportunity to figure it out in a proper way. The debate has shown little support for the proposal of the Central Party, which I put forward in my main speech. There's reason to think there's not many of them in the room. I argued that, regardless of the decision or not, the State Council would come to the Storting on such an important matter as Norway's security. We're going to take it up again, but I'm going to turn the proposal into a transmission proposal, because I don't want it to vote in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e950	The representative of Liv Signe Navarsete has turned her proposal into a transmission proposal. The representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik has spoken the word twice before and gets the word to a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e957	More here have been shown to export from Norwegian districts. Yes, Norway exports to the world. Since the EEA Agreement, the proportion of Norwegian exports going to the EU has decreased, the share of other areas in the world has increased. With brexit, that development will speed up. Every week, Norwegian salmon goes to South Korea and China, but we're not subject to decisions in Seoul and Beijing for that reason. That is precisely what is at the heart of the EEA Agreement and why an alternative is needed. The Minister for Foreign Affairs still does not respond specifically to what I am asking about EFTA membership. Now the prime minister has been open to the positive that the British can go into the EEA if they want to. Is the Norwegian side also in favour of the entry of the British into EFTA, if they so wish, without an EEA agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e964	I was going to make posts instead, but I had to run in committee, so it was very nice to finish, so I understood that, this good debate. The continent of Europe has its name from Greek mythology, where Europe was a high-ranking woman from Fønikia. History goes on to tell us how Zevs – in the form of a white bull – abducted Europe to the Greek island of Crete. I often get the impression that the public debate on Norway's connection to Europe can sometimes be characterised as being a little abducted, like the goddess Europe of Greek mythology. The abduction I'm thinking about is the fact that many in Norway believe that the development of our well-developed and prosperous societies comes as a result of what we in Norway have hatched out of ideas and cultural heritage. But I would like to remind this honourable assembly that the most Norwegian of all Norwegian values, such as democracy, freedom of expression, the modern state of law and our Christian heritage, are all ideas that were first hatched in Europe, but which later spread to Norway. And to any representatives of the Central Party in the Chamber, I also remember that the technology and knowledge that enabled agriculture also came to Norway via Europe. Norway is, and has always been, interwoven with Europe – a continent that has been historically marked by war, unrest and conflict – very much like today's situation in the Middle East. But in the last 70 years, this conflict-filled continent has become a lighthouse of stability, democracy, technological development and individual freedom. The EU, probably the world’s largest civilisation project ever, has much of its credit for this. Today, the government is presenting a very good EU strategy towards 2021. Although Norway is not a member of the EU, through the EEA Agreement we are totally dependent on stability and positive development in Europe – much because, after all, the EU is Norway’s home market with a population of 500 million people – 100 times the population of Norway – but also because the exchange of ideas, goods and people between Norway and Europe has always been present and will continue to be crucial for our nation’s future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e981	It is true that when the Central Party, which itself claims to be a district party, goes up to the interlocutory once and for all and says that they want to leave the EEA Agreement, I have to go to the interlocutors again. In the election campaign in More and Romesdal, the second party candidate expressed that it was better for the industry in More and Romesdal to withdraw from the EEA Agreement. It has created a very large debate, and it is not unexpected. When counties export as much as More and Romesdal, Rogaland and Hordaland hear that they want to send someone on the Stortinget who wants to take away the market to which they are selling, I understand that there are strong reactions from public authorities, employers and not least workers. Our main market is Europe. I don't think the Center Party will answer. What is their response to the corner stone holdings in the districts – which are in the yard industry, which is in the furniture industry on Sunnmøre – when they take away from them the market? It's a misguided district policy, that's something the Center Party should think about for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e988	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1004	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that – within the allocated speaking time – up to five rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1013	The medicine Spinraza can help people with spinal muscle atrophy. This is the first medicine that can help those who have this disease. The situation is now such that the decision-making forum has decided that young people under the age of 18 will receive this medicine. For those over 18, the situation is different. The decision-making forum indicates that the dossier for Spinraza does not demonstrate that the medicinal product is cost-effective for them over 18 years of age. An overall committee agrees that SMA disease must have access to the medicine they need as soon as possible. The Committee agrees that SMA disease has been waiting long enough and that Norwegian authorities should use the tools available to Norway to ensure its citizens the medicine they need. According to the Council of State data, it is currently not possible to use the TRIPS agreement to coerce Spinraza and thus ensure access to medicine for those who need it in Norway. A minority in the Committee, consisting of the Centre Party, the SV and the Christian People's Party, consider it serious when the Council of State concludes that Norway cannot coerce this medicine, and wants to ask the government to investigate that possibility. But this is a minority. The same minority indicates that the TRIPS agreement opens up the possibility of parallel imports of a medicinal product if the company abuses its monopoly power. These members believe that this possibility should be explored – but this is therefore a minority. The Christian People's Party as a party is engaged in looking at the possibility, for this will apply to several patient groups gradually, where one sees that medical companies can abuse their monopoly power. Therefore, this case does not only apply to Spinraza, it also applies to medicine for other patient groups. With this I will address the proposals of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1026	Then the representative, Mr V. Bollestad, has drawn up the proposals which she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1031	A stable and predictable patent system is important for the promotion of research and development of innovative medicinal products. The proposal we have before us will undermine this. Norway has a limited production of medicinal products and it will not be possible to have a production facility that covers all needs. It is boundless naive to believe that Norway will be able to establish its own production of Spinraza in a short time. Who's going to do that? Where is that going to happen? The nusin is not a single molecule that you can buy freely. It's a complex molecule that you might have to synthesize yourself. How do the proposers intend to build this up in a short time, and who will finance it? A compulsory licence shall require that a manufacturer of a medicinal product is different from the manufacturer of the patent. A compulsory licence to exploit the patent does not enable the patent holder to produce the invention for the coercive licensee. Neither does a person have access to facilities and knowledge. If this proposal were adopted, it would destroy Norway's credibility as a serious actor. We're actually dependent on other countries trading with us. Having self-production and exports of several medicinal products depends on purchases from others. In addition, we rely on an international pharmaceutical industry to access new medicines. No one is ready to develop and produce new medicinal products unless the pharmaceutical industry does so. We need to work actively to attract more research and production in Norway. A decision in line with the proposal would undermine this work. Spinraza has continued document protection under pharmaceutical legislation. This means that all documentation of the quality, safety and efficacy of the medicinal product must be provided in order to do so under a compulsory licence. To do that, we need to have clinical studies. It has to be financed. This will at all be very resource- and cost-intensive in a healthcare service where we already have more than enough things to solve. Parallel imports of patented products require that other countries have received the medicinal product at a lower price, that these countries have a surplus of the medicinal product, and that it is available for export to another market. The market for Spinraza is narrow, and it is unlikely that there will be a surplus that can meet Norwegian needs, in other countries. If Norway goes in and buys products from other countries, this could result in insufficient products for other countries. It is unsolvable and can affect patients who need the product. We can't skip the rules we've set ourselves, and at the same time demand that others keep them. We are working for Norwegian patients to have rapid access to new medicines within the framework of Stortinget itself through the suspension of the prioritisation notification. We have to deal with Spinraza being poorly documented for them over the age of 18, and we were glad that the product is now being used for Norwegian children with good results. This proposal is no way to go; it is only suitable for creating false hopes and undermining Norway’s role as a serious player in medicinal products. It is rooted in a proud tradition for Norway which is developing, producing and studying new medicines and can slow down the positive development we are now seeing with more and more clinical studies. Especially in the cancer area, we attract positive international attention. I hope it keeps going.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1052	I would like to remind you that this matter is about very vulnerable people, and the matter is heated. Mari Storstein is a name that I was introduced to this year through the debate in the NRK. She is a woman in her thirties who has the diagnosis of spinal muscle atrophy – a muscle disease that weakens important muscle functions in the legs, back and neck, while at the same time causing difficulty in breathing and swallowing. The medicinal product Spinraza is the first medicinal product that has shown an effect on SMA. It does not make patients healthy, but can delay the course of the disease. For children who need the medicine, I think it's both good and important that it gets into early treatment, but there's an age limit set. This means that those over 18 years old, like Mari Storstein, are not offered the necessary medicine, because high prices and undocumented effects in adults are used as arguments. I don't think that's good enough. But luckily, there's a solution. Forced licensing or parallel imports through Article 31 of the TRIPS Agreement could resolve this flock. When a company like Biogen takes so high a price, that is 1 million. kr per dose, according to international law, we have the right to enforce licences. That means we're still paying them, but we're paying a moderate price and producing medicine in Norway. And like everything else, this is about political will. The SV agree that the threshold for exercising the exclusive rights of patents should be high, but this is a very serious disease, where the medicinal product leads to increased profits for the private pharmaceutical company when it should be possible to ensure a better life for sick people. I would therefore like to refer to the proposal by Mr SV. We have this obvious right on an important issue, which concerns human life, health and quality of life.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1065	A stable and predictable patent system is important for the promotion of research and development of innovative medicinal products. A compulsory licence is a public authority authorisation to exploit a patented invention without the consent of the patent holder. There must be a high threshold for the use of the coercive licence. A coercive licence is an intervention in the exclusive right of the patent holder to exploit the patent and gives the patent holder the right to exploit it. The purpose of the scheme is to avoid patent rights preventing access to patented products in a situation where important public interests prevail, such as: where epidemics are at risk, or in other emergency situations. I can't see that the conditions for the coercive licence exist in the case of Spinraza. A compulsory licence shall require the possession of a pharmaceutical manufacturer other than the patent holder who may manufacture the medicinal product. A compulsory licence to exploit the patent does not enable the patent holder to produce the invention for the coercive licensee or access to the patent holder’s manufacturing facilities and knowledge. In order to make good use of the invention, the manufacturer concerned must have the technical competence, personnel and manufacturing facilities necessary to manufacture the medicinal product. Making good use of the invention can be difficult and more complicated where the medicinal product is concerned. For the production of Spinraza, there is probably no alternative operator with the necessary facilities and competence. In addition, Spinraza has continued document protection under pharmaceutical legislation, i.e. all evidence of the quality, safety and efficacy of the medicinal product must be obtained in the event of a compulsory licence being granted. In order to cope with this, significant clinical studies have to be conducted. It will be very resource- and cost-intensive and is unlikely to be feasible in practice either. Norway has limited production of medicinal products and it will not be possible to have production facilities that meet all needs. Due to Norway’s obligations under the EEA Agreement, parallel imports of patient protected products can only be carried out within the EEA territory. Such imports require not only that other EEA countries have received the medicinal product at a lower price but that these countries have a surplus of the medicinal product and that it is then available for export to another market. The market for Spinraza is transparent and it is not likely that other countries have a surplus that can meet Norwegian needs. I am working for Norwegian patients to have access to new medicines. However, this must be done within the framework set by the Storting through the setting of the prioritisation message. In addition, we need to deal with the current legislation in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1082	The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1087	Today, Stortinget shall examine the SV representative’s proposal to use the TRIPS agreement for the coercive licensing of Spinraza. The background to the proposal is very understandable: a desire for SMA-sick people who need the medicine to have access to it. However, believing that it can be solved by producing Norway as a developing country or by adopting in the United Kingdom that Norway should start piracy is, at best, unprofessional, and it would be extremely poor for Norway to see if such a thing would go through in Norway’s National Assembly. The TRIPS Agreement, which is concluded by Norway, grants under certain conditions the right to produce the patented product other than that of the patent holder. This is called the coercive licence and can be used, for example: in cases where developing countries do not have access to essential medicinal products. Norway is not a developing country. It is incredible that the SV, the Central Party and the Christian People’s Party can seriously propose that Norway go beyond the WTO agreement, which has established driving rules for the respect of patent rights in a global trading system. The countries that have signed the agreement agree that patents are necessary to stimulate innovation and value creation and recognise the importance of a stable and predictable patent system for the development of new medicines. For us who work for Norway to become an attractive country for clinical trials, this proposal could, in the worst case, destroy the work that has been done. We work through the Nordic Council to establish a Joint Ethical Committee for the Approval of Clinical Studies to make it easier and more attractive to conduct clinical studies in the Nordic countries. The Nordic Cancer Associations also support this initiative. For patients, joint Nordic pharmaceutical studies could mean that they can be offered medicines that are not yet commonly available. It will mean a lot to the individual — and especially to patients with rare diseases. The SV proposal has not gone unnoticed. International pharmaceutical companies are now wondering whether it makes sense to invest in Norway when such attitudes are expressed in the United Kingdom. Fortunately, the majority of the Committee sees that any coercive licensing will lead to Norway sending a strong anti-innovative signal to the global pharmaceutical industry and other international trade actors, and that this could lead to Norway not becoming a preferred country for research investment, clinical studies or the launch of new medicines for the benefit of the Norwegian population. I hope the world out there gets with it the majority's attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1098	It has been said by several representatives that the minority will do this. What we have said is that we are asking for an investigation. I think there's a big difference between that and saying it's going to be like that. We've done that in both cases, and that's what the minority has said. There are also countries other than developing countries that have used this agreement, the United States is one of them. I think that's also right to say from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1104	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1120	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1129	Today, about 160 children are born here in Norway – approx. 20 of them just a few trip stops away, in Ullevål hospitals. Two of them are born at Gjøvik. In the churches it is not certain it is birth today, but in that case it will be a birth tomorrow. At least one of the women who gives birth today involuntarily gives birth without having moved to qualified maternity care. The birth of children is daily for our society as well as for our health care system. But that might be the least daily experience as a human being. Through a long pregnancy, both the body and the head must prepare for birth. Then it is important to know that the food supply is safe and available, no matter where you live. The majority is currently considering two representative proposals from the Centre Party and the SV, which together contained 13 different proposals on the provision of birth and maternity services in Norway. The current situation is one of the key questions in the proposals and in the vote. In the last 10 years, the average post-natal lying time has decreased from 3.2 days to 2.7 days. The hearing parties who took part in the hearing decided that this was not a matter of professional judgement, but that it was, on the contrary, linked to financial frameworks and savings requirements. There are different opinions in the Committee on the time of the day to be the absolute minimum, but there is a broad consensus that the provision of birth and maternity services in the municipalities must be strengthened. This applies in particular to women who return home early after birth, but it is also important to ensure a good and proper follow-up throughout pregnancy. Today there is a significant shortage of midwives. In Kommune-Norway, there are 424 midwives to care for 60,000 pregnant women, pregnant women and newborns. In Norway, through good and systematic work, we have made sure that we have low infant and maternal mortality. We must defend that every day – we cannot gamble with this. We cannot cut down on the offers in the hospitals and send women and children home to a poorly developed offer in the municipalities. Today we have a hearing on the air ambulance case here in Stortinget. There is also a matter relevant to childbirth and maternity. In Norway, not all women with birth control have a hospital almost right around the corner, as we have here in Oslo and Akershus. Prehospital services are essential for the safe supply of food when living far away from the hospital. On April 24, little Paul-Agnar was born at the playhouse in Mehamn. "It was intense, and I was very afraid. Fear that something would happen to me or my child. [[...]] Did he have a stable heart rate? What condition was he in? I was afraid that necessary equipment was missing. It was really bad.» This is what Mother Liss Inger Eriksen said to the NRK. The birth at the medical office in Mehamn was the result of an exceptional situation related to the air ambulance. But, as I said at the outset, involuntary births occur outside the birth institution every day, and the number of transport births is increasing. This is not a desired development. For women who live far from the hospital, a well-functioning follow-up service is essential in order to have a good birth experience. The red-green government presented St.meld. No 12 for 2008-2009, A Happy Event. And that's exactly what it has to be. For the Workers' Party, it is essential that we have a birth and maternity offer that is safe and secure before, during and after birth – no matter where you live in the country. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the SV and the Christian People's Party, today present a position on seven points concerning the protection of the current food supply, the capacity and funding of municipal midwife services, the monitoring of follow-up services, maternity leave, exit assessment in consultation with the woman, the establishment of further midwife training and the re-evaluation of the depression screening of pregnant women and women with childbirth. In addition, a total of ten minority proposals have been made. With that, I would like to thank the Committee for a good cooperation in this matter, and I would like to address the proposals of which the Labour Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1160	The representative Tuva Moflag has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1165	Norway has a good supply of birth and maternity with a low incidence of maternal and infant mortality. We're still going to have that. A debate with a presentation that, if anyone wants to frustrate the supply of food, will not help to make the supply better. Such a debate will create misunderstandings and contribute to the insecurity of future mothers and fathers. National occupational guidance for maternity care was provided in 2014, and it does not have our political leadership for recent changes in maternity care. The period during which mother and child are allowed to stay in a hospital after birth is a professional assessment which must be made on the basis of the needs of the individual woman, child and family. This is the health professionals who are best placed to do, together with women, and not us at the Stortinget. No one should go home until the family is able to take care of the child at home. The reduction in bedtime as planned by some hospitals is a professional basis. At the same time, it is important to remember that the time spent in Norwegian hospitals is the same average in OECD countries. Repatriation led an organised delivery of childbirth in the hometown and support from the network to women. Therefore, health professionals need to make sure that there is an organised maternity service in the municipality before mother and children are discharged. The Government Party and the Christian People's Party have strengthened maternity care and the midwife's capacity in the municipalities from 2014 until today. In the 2018 budget, a total of 1.16 billion was made available. kr to the health centre and school health centre. Of that, 853.3 million. SEK an increase in the free income of the municipalities, and SEK 307.2 million. kr was allowed as ear-marked addition. In addition, the government has reintroduced the requirement of midwifery competence in health and care law. This bet returns more positive results. This is good for both women and children. There has been an increase of 974 yearly jobs in the health and education services from 2013 to 2017. It also appears that women are more satisfied with the provision they receive, as shown by the user surveys. The patient’s health care is also valid before maternity care. The offer shall be adapted to the individual. It is not certain that what is professionally justified for one family is right for all, and the health system must adapt to this. Nor is it the best thing for everyone to stay in hospital for a long time after a birth. Many want to come home to the water environments. The reorganization of e.g. The Bergen Women’s Clinic shall be implemented in such a way that care is more structured around the mother, children and family. The newly-baked family should be at rest, and the health professionals should come to them and not the other way around. Health care providers shall systematically document abnormalities if the foetus does not have a midwife in it as early as possible, during the active phase of the birth and until the period of birth. This is reported in the management requirement of the annual messages from the regional enterprises. The size approach to the proposed changes in maternity care should be based on trust and be based on a commitment to good intentions among professionals in the respective businesses. We have and we are still going to have a safe and good birth and maternity offer in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1195	Birth and having children are the biggest event in life. I'm so lucky that I've experienced this three times, and it's just a little over a year since I was in the last time. Here a real health service meets at its best. When I read these suggestions and hear the discussion, I get the impression that the offer in Norway is bad. This is more suitable for creating concerns than actually providing those who are now waiting for children, a rest assured that they are going to meet a good health care service in Norway that provides great service. The user surveys show that there is consistently good satisfaction, and the birthers are more satisfied in 2016 than they were in 2011. I believe that politicians are not going to adopt when new mothers are going home. It is what they themselves feel, know, in consultation with professionals, whether nurses, doctors or midwives, are present and can provide good advice and guidance in the situation in which the individual is in. I notice that the Minister for Health has said: «No one shall return home until the family is able to take care of the child at home.» There's something I've noticed, and that's what's most important here. It will vary from person to person. Feeding is as different as everyone else. The way the births go is also very different. I have to say that, in my experience, there is a great difference between first birth and third birth and how quickly you feel that you are driven to go home again and do the best you can. What's good can get better, and I'm glad this government is working for it. But these suggestions are to open doors. There is no need to vote in favour of proposals that are already government policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1211	This winter it has been a major public debate on the conditions in Norwegian maternity care. A few decades ago, most women who were pregnant went home after three to four days in a hospital. Now most birthdates are printed after two days. Health care services plan for even shorter average laying time. In Bergen, the new children’s and youth hospital is scheduled for 40 pst. of women, six to eight hours after birth. At the same time, data from the Sondermorföreningen show that there are as many as 600 to 700 midwiferies in Kommune-Noreg on a national basis to meet today's professional guideline. Health Minister Höie and the government party have gone a long way in blaming the opposition to create a scare image of Norwegian maternity care. That is not the case. It's relinquishing responsibility. To show that Norway has a low infant and mother mortality rate is right, but a health minister must bear in mind that there is a public debate about the wrong direction of the development of maternity care. The trend of shorter and shorter hospital lay time leads to a response from professionals. They see that the offer is getting worse, that complications are not discovered at the same time as before. The curfew at the hospital is not a hotel break. It's a time for professionals to catch up on illness and complications in mothers and children early. Mother needs to establish breast-feeding. Pediatric examination and screening tests are carried out only after 24 hours. The infant mortality in Norway has fallen thanks to a well-developed birth and maternity provision, but are we forgetting how important the observation time is for keeping the low infant mortality rate? Yellowsott usually sees one after two days of life. Severe jaundice can cause brain damage to the child. In Norway, three cases of severe jaundice have been reported in the last few years, after the condition has been absent for 20–30 years. It says a little bit. It's the professional environment that now shouts warning. It's the midwives, the children's presents and the health sisters. The Pas-Opt report from 2017 from the Swedish Institute for Public Health shows that the country's major hospital suffers from poor satisfaction with childbirth. The women lack available midwives. The figures from the UNICEF Norway municipal analysis in 2017 showed that 60 pst. local authorities do not offer home visits within two weeks of returning, as the professional guideline requires. In Haukeland, researchers found an increase in the number of reinhabitants between 2002 and 2010, coincident with a reduction in the time spent on maternity. In August 2017, the Regional Perinatal Committee in Health South-Aust sent a statement of concern to its medical director. Their investigations detected major shortages in supply. Only one of three maternity wards will notify the health centre on early return. Women in large hospitals were more often sent home against their will, due to lack of capacity. Increased incidences of adverse events, such as undetected birth depression, high blood pressure, bleeding or maternal infection, and children with dehydration, weight loss, jaundice and infections or undetected heart failure, were reported to be avoided by the perinatal committee in the country’s largest health region. The leader of the Norwegian Children's Medical Association is crystal clear. In the newspaper he said that hospitals are primarily concerned with saving bedtime, and he says: ‘We fear serious consequences for the newborns’. The medical team said in the committee hearing that there was no evidence that prior printing was a safe option. The early release of the midwives and their children will require a completely different coordination from what we seem to see today. In any case, we can't start cutting in bedtime until follow-up in the municipalities is properly established. If a change in practice results in fewer births, the midwife and the doctor will be put into practice in a forced situation where several grey zone patients will be sent home, either woman will do it or not. Women’s co-destination becomes a powerful watering out. Article 24 of the Children’s Convention states that in order to ensure the ‘right of children to benefit from the highest achievable health standard and treatment provision’, the States must ‘ensure adequate health care for mothers before and after birth’. Norway is one of the world's best countries to live in. We have good services for women in all stages related to having children, but in recent years, central and important professional environments have expressed that the services for women during pregnancy, childbirth and during childbirth are gradually weakened. We cannot tolerate that. The centre party takes up its suggestions and enjoys multiple of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1237	The representative Kjersti Toppe then mentioned the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1242	In 2016, 56 000 children were born in Norway. There are many infants who want to get the best possible start to life, while parents – and especially women – who are undergoing both a beautiful and vulnerable period before, during and after birth need to be cared for. Earlier this year it became clear that new Haukeland hospitals are planned to be built so that 40 pst. sent home by the newly-baked mothers and their children after 6 to 24 hours. It's disturbing. It is not that the municipalities are ready to accept these families. The government parties have repeatedly given the impression that in the opposition we create an uncertainty about the care of the child. Let me remind you that the government itself has created the concern this time. It is also the government's policy that has led to the SV promoting eight proposals for better maternity care, and that today there is a majority for a number of issues that we and the Central Party have promoted. It is safe for Norwegian women and for the Norwegian food supply. According to the Institute of Public Health, lying days after birth have been reduced from 3.2 to 2.7 in recent years. Today we are told that a further reduction in bedtime in Norwegian hospitals after birth should be professionally justified and not lead to a deterioration in the offer. It should be a matter of course. We record that the Council of State has repeatedly said that a previous return trip should be voluntary. We may disagree on what the definition of ‘freedom’ is, because when we build hospitals where there is no physical space, it makes volunteering difficult. According to the Norwegian midwife association, if the municipalities are to provide adequate maternity and maternity care, we need between 600 and 700 new midwiferies on a national basis. It's in the municipalities we're going to accept vulnerable new-baked families. It is in municipal maternity care that we lay the basis for a safe pregnancy and a safe birth. Building up the municipal midwife offer is one of the most important things we can do. Today, the Stortinget government is asking for the strengthening of the municipal midwifery. It's important. So for follow-up during birth. It is a question that SV has repeatedly raised. There is a clear link between the number of midwife positions in hospitals and the follow-up of the individual birthing sheep during birth. All birthing women are entitled to have a midwife present in one-to-one care while in the active part of their birth. There is currently no overview of how many hospitals are able to meet. After repeated questions, the Minister of Health and Health has also not been able to give a satisfactory answer on the status of Norwegian hospitals. We expect that to happen. In addition, the strong centralisation of food establishments has naturally had consequences for supply. According to the Norwegian midwife association, the number of food institutions has been more than halved in the last 30 years. The centralisation leads to a long journey for women at birth and an increased risk of transport birth. Where there is more than one and a half hours of travel to the place of birth, there shall be a daily standby and accompanying service with qualified personnel. Follow-up service with midwife shall ensure proper follow-up and monitoring on the way to the place of birth. This is currently very different from that organised and little formalized. Now we have a decision that the government will provide a monitoring of this, and that's good, but the most important thing is perhaps to stop further centralization. Pregnancy care is an essential part of the overall maternity care. In April this year, the Prime Minister went out and asked us to have more children. I can support that, but then we have to make sure that the birth offering is good enough. I finally brought up the SV's proposal on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1265	The representative Sheida Sangtarash then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1270	We do not disagree that Norway has a good offer for pregnant, birthing and pregnant women. Fortunately, we also have a low incidence of maternal and infant mortality. The Christian People's Party is concerned that we should listen to women and families, but also to professionals who care and take care of the young, the women and the families every day. One thing is that we have systems and guidelines that say that birthing women should have midwife present. One thing is that it is said that no newborn child, mother or father should be forced home shortly after birth. The needs of the child and the safety of the parents shall be determined. When reality doesn't feel that way for those with both legs up in it, we have to listen. Pregnant, nurturing and nurturing women have very different needs. Someone wants to have the pregnancy check with the doctor, others with the midwife. Some people want to go home quickly after birth; others want to be taken care of in the maternity ward for several days. All of this is to be respected. What is important is that the offer is professionally sound, that the woman is listened to, that the safety of the child and the woman is crucial, and that economic considerations never exceed the concern for safety and care in the vulnerable phase of a child’s, a woman’s and a family’s life after birth. It is not a goal to have a further reduction in the average hospital bedtime after birth. It is a goal that each child and each woman receive the time they need in a hospital after birth – time to start breast feeding, time to study, time to get on their feet. Like the Toys Association, among others mentioned in the hearing: early return with shorter observation time may lead to the absence of detection of the child’s condition. We know that birth depression is easier to detect in the maternity ward than at home in the living room. At the hearing, the professionals who met were asked if the reduction in bedtime was professionally justified. The answer was: it is not professionally justified. The reduction in bedtime is justified by the need to save money. We in the Christian People's Party are really busy facilitating people to be allowed to live throughout the country. Then, too, we must ensure that pregnant, birthing, and pregnant women receive the offer they should have throughout the country. Depression can have major consequences for a child, for a mother and for an entire family. The incidence of postnatal psychiatric disorders is increasing. For many, this starts already in pregnancy, and there has been a sharp increase in the number of mothers who experience it in recent years. I grew up with a mother with birth depression. There could be three weeks between each time she spoke to us little ones. The first birth had a mother in a hospital. Then they discovered nothing, and she was fresh afterwards. Second and third births were at home. It had great consequences. It was many years before the health service discovered the situation. This is the consequence for many small kids and many families if we don't get along. We also have to dry out talking about these consequences. It takes a lot of the women who get sick, it takes a lot of the kids who are born, and it takes a lot of the spouse to live up to it. It eventually affects families and kids, and it's expensive for our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1294	Norwegian maternity care has high quality and good results. We are one of the countries with the lowest newborn mortality, and user surveys on maternity, maternity and maternity care show good satisfaction with the offer. It is not right to reduce or weaken the supply of food. There is no ongoing centralisation of the supply of food, but some small feeding rooms have been closed down in recent years due to declining birth rates. National health and hospital plans state that the distribution of smaller food departments and feeding rooms must ensure proximity to food supply, even outside the large women’s clinics. I expect that is also what the majority uses in its proposal for Decision IV. There has been a lot of attention about bedtime after birth. The lying time has become half a day shorter in ten years. Multiple births have the shortest lying time and the fall in bedtime is greater for multiple births than for first births. Medical knowledge and experience suggest that there is no need for long-term care after a normal birth. It is also evident from the biggest news A happy event, as the red-green government presented in 2009. I agree that the duration of hospitalisation must be adapted to the needs of the woman and the newborn child. It is therefore a professional question when mother and child are going home after birth. No one should go home until the family is able to take care of the child at home. These are factors that are also taken into account when planning new hospitals. I refer to my answer to questions for a written answer, about the planning of future maternity services in new hospitals. The response shows that national guidelines on maternity care are leading the planning of future provision of birth and maternity care and that individual assessments are made of the time of hospital discharge. I believe that the committee's recommendation in this area has been taken care of. Health Bergen has had good experience for many years in the fact that women with childbirth leave home 6-24 hours after birth. Through the project JordmorHeim, midwives from Bergen received several home visits from a midwife from the Women's Clinic during the first few days, whereas they traveled from the hospital between 6 and 24 hours after an uncomplicated birth. In neighbouring municipalities, follow-up was provided by the municipality. The project was well received and was popular among the natives. Experience has been taken into account in the planning of the future maternity provision. Health Bergen suggests that a certain proportion of the birthers should leave early after an individual assessment. This is in line with national guidelines and requires the construction of municipal services from the health centre. Sending healthy mothers and children home shortly after birth requires that the municipality has managed to build up a good midwife service that accepts them. The government agrees that there is a need for more midwives in the municipalities, and that is why we are strengthening the midwife’s offer. On 1 January of this year we implemented legal requirements for midwifery competence in the municipalities, which the Workers' Party removed when they were in government. It's granted over a billion dollars. kr both in 2017 and 2018 for health stations and school health services, where most of the municipal landladys work. The number of midwifery posts in the service increased by 129 from 2013 to 2017. To the question of funding, I refer to my answer to questions 986 and 1072 to a written answer recently. It is found that there are mainly municipalities with a high proportion of self-employed permanent workers who are best served in using the permanent agency in maternity care. Such municipalities are likely to be fewer. There is a great deal of municipal subsidisation of medical practice, and fixed statistics show that the proportion of fixed-paid permanent workers is increasing. I point out that it is the Ministry of Knowledge that regulates educational capacity for candidates in individual health education, including midwife training. The assessment of the capacity of health training is part of the annual budgetary processes of the government and the conclusions are presented in the annual budgetary presentations. There are few places in the world where birth is as safe as in Norway, and we will also have good maternity care in the future. The most important thing now is to strengthen the offer in the municipalities, and it is also evident from the government's priorities and the priorities that we have also made in the budgetary conciliation with the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1315	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1320	At the hearing, several of the professional bodies gave feedback that early repatriation is not professionally justified. On the contrary, they considered that several health businesses are now adding up to a short bedtime. In particular, the first two days after birth are important for the observation of the child. It has been said in this debate that politicians should not decide how long women should be on maternity, as this is a professional decision. Can the Minister of Health accept that the health companies he is responsible for plan for a lay-off period against which the professionals warn?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1325	As I said in my post, it is quite clear that health companies are planning their capacity on the basis of the professional guidelines laid down by the Health Directorate, but which – of course – have been developed in close cooperation with the professional communities. The professional environment is involved in the development of the professional standards guidelines in Norway, and I think that is a very good model – as opposed to the fact that the technical guidelines should have been drawn up here in the Stortinget or I in the department. Professional guidance is a major work that involves a strong involvement of the leading trade unions. That's the way it should be in the future. My demand for healthcare companies is that they follow the guidelines when they plan their offer, and I understand that they do.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1330	At Health Bergen, which is much mentioned, it is said that complicated births/risk births – about 20 pst. - will have six days to sleep, while 40 pst. of the birthers will require more follow-up and can expect approximately Four days in a hospital. This is from the answer I received from the Minister of Health on my written question. But it also says: ‘About 40 pst. of the giving birth to healthy women who have undergone normal pregnancy, a normal birth and who have had a healthy child.» Here I did not get an answer as to how many days or how long you saw that they would stay lying down. Then my question to the Minister of Health: is it going to be a real choice for the woman if the capacity of the hospital is built too small initially?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1340	Hospital capacity needs to be adapted to the expected future needs for births and to the professional guidelines. When a woman is going to go home after a normal, normal birth, and a woman likes to have also born children before and has the security through it, it is, as I said, also in line with the guidelines, a question to be resolved in the dialogue between the woman and the professionals in the hospitals, but one that also needs to focus on which offer is in the municipality. I was in my post about the thinking behind the planning in Bergen about the cooperation with the municipalities and the model that they want to use for these kind of birthing women.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1345	The Health Minister is aware that there are professional guidelines on which to base, but I did not feel that I was fully informed of what he thinks about the professionals who participated in the hearing saying that this is not professionally justified. It's about the Earth Mothers' Association, the Legislature, etc. Do they not, then, support these technical guidelines?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1350	I feel that they support the professional guidelines. They have just been developed in cooperation with them. I have also met with them, and I was very clear that if they believe the professional guidelines that apply today are incorrect or should be updated in some areas, it is very natural and important that they address it with the Health Directorate, who is responsible for the development of the professional guidelines. So that's the way it is, and I think the representative is well-known, that in the individual hospital, there's always a living professional debate about what's right, what's the right dimension. It is a debate that I am pleased with, which I welcome, and which is also a prerequisite for us to continuously develop our service as read professional truths are challenged. Therefore, it does not mean that you have professional guidelines, that you should not have a professional debate. But the technical debate should be professional, not political.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1357	I want to start where the previous replicator dropped. No one disagrees in the professional guidelines. I understand that a whole professional community thinks they're very good, and they've got a lot of excitement out in the services. The criticism is that it is impossible for professionals to follow them up, due to the situation in the hospital now, among other things. lying time is getting shorter and shorter. In particular, it has led to criticism that a builder also suggests that average laying time must be reduced, without the municipalities being asked for it in advance. The cooperation referred to in Bergen was a very good cooperation as long as it was funded by healthcare professionals. That's not how it's being added right now. So my question is, is it that the Minister of Health thinks that the professional community – Læg, health sisters and childish people – is also driving a scare campaign, as the Minister of Health owes us to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1364	I absolutely do not believe that a driver with scare propaganda when you have a good professional discussion about both what is the right dimensioning, and how the offer should be. What I have reacted to are some of the images that have been used, for example. where one compares the offer to pregnant women in Norway with the treatment of cows. I believe that this is a type of imagery where there is no correlation between imagery and what is actually the situation in Norway, nor does it contribute to a good professional or political discussion. Hospitals cannot plan based on an idea that they are unable to cooperate with municipalities. In the case of Health Bergen, the surrounding municipalities have a scheme in which the midwives are employed in the municipality. Then there is a disagreement with the municipality of Bergen about this, but of course I hope that they can agree on a good solution. We also strengthen the midwifery services in the municipality through state grants.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1371	I think maybe the Health Minister should take a trip to Bergen and talk to the surrounding municipalities. I get occasional messages from locals who tell a slightly different story than the state council here says. That's what I thought he could take with him. It is a problem that municipalities have too few midwives, and they notice it very well if they are now charged even shorter bedtime. Municipalities must take responsibility for infants who are only two days old or six hours old. According to the Soccer Association, between 600 and 700 years of work is missing only to meet today's guidelines. It will take many decades for one to come up with this at the rate that has been. What will the Council of State do to ensure 700 new annual works in municipalities within a short time?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1381	Firstly, I fully agree with the representative that there is a need for more midwives in the municipalities. That is why from 1 January this year I have reversed what the Centre Party did when they put in government, namely to remove the requirement that it should be a midwife in the municipality. That requirement has now been reintroduced and will apply from 1 January of this year. The second is that, as a government – not least in the budgetary agreements concluded with the Christian People's Party and previously with the Left – we have ensured that we strengthen the state grant to expand the midwifery service in the municipalities. This means that from 2014 to 2017, there were over 120 more annual works for midwives. I am sure that we will see this development intensifying throughout 2018, because in the 2018 budgetary agreement, the Christian People's Party received earmarked money for midwifery positions in the municipalities, as well as those that the government had already proposed. I fully agree that we must strengthen the offer in the municipalities. We've done that through both using the law, changing what the Center Party did in government, and strengthening this through appropriations.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1390	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1397	There is a need to strengthen the midwife service in the municipalities. I just came from the hearing on the municipal bill for 2019, and there is probably no room within that economy for 600-700 new annual works to ensure what the government is now saying. I have followed this debate with a little wonder. I am constantly getting enquiries from the Earth Mother's Association and from mothers who experience that there is no problem with the professional content that is in the plans and guidelines, but with the practice of it and the ability to practice it – both in hospitals, in the maternity wards and in the help you should get at home in your own municipality, after you have been written out. As one of those who have tried this wonder it is to be born, I think it must be allowed to lie down a little. It may be quite normal, and no illness in either mother or child, but as I said, there may be a need to lie down for a little more than four hours, even if everything is normal. I feel that the Council of State does not take any of the things that have been the point of appeal now, namely that it allows the construction of new hospitals based on the assumption that you should not be allowed to go down to more than max. four hours, at least according to a type of gauss curve or the number of births, and that in the real choice in dialogue between the birth and health professionals there is no room for the individual adjustments that may need to be made. In those cases where nothing dramatic happens, you don't necessarily know what happens in the body either. It could be that you have born both one and two children and are surprised by the number three. Then maybe the reactions are completely different. I have to say I'm worried about it. I don't want to scare anyone, but when the professional communities so clearly tell us that the premises that are now being made for some of the new trades departments do not allow for this individual assessment that underlies the professional guidelines, there is reason to be concerned. I believe that the Council of State does not respond to these questions at all, and therefore does not take the responsibility he has.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1410	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1426	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1435	The proposers behind the proposal for a representative ask the government to ensure that the geographical and professional deficiencies caused by the round of tenders in the field of TSB in the south-east of Health are corrected. The proposers further request that the government instruct Health South-East to implement measures to correct the deficiencies — if necessary with additional calls for tender, and, if necessary, with proposals for increases in appropriations. The Council of States' response is that there are no professional or geographical shortcomings in the offer in Health South-East. Here, there are clearly different views about the situation, and what we politicians are going to accept from what is happening. In any case, it is a fact that the bidding round results in a total reduction in the number of TSO locations in the region. Public contracts are not concluded with Lolandsheimen and Brerens, and the detoxification services of the Borgestadkliniken in Skien are being reduced. From the Christian People's Party we see in this case that as a society and we as responsible politicians for treatment services, we cannot accept that good and important care and treatment services are being or are being discontinued. Today's Christian People's Party, together with the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV, is promoting a so-called loose proposal, proposal No. 5, where we ‘will ensure that in Health South-East an additional offer of 10 detoxification sites is opened up as soon as possible, replacing the 10 sites built down in the health region. Until such time as such tenders have been carried out, the Government, within the framework of the public procurement legislation and, if necessary, through grants, be asked to ensure that the Blue Cross Civil City Clinic can maintain its day-to-day operations’. The reason why we withdraw what is recommended by the Committee in the vote and replace it with a new proposal today is that the Committee has received a letter from the Council of State on 16 May. In the first part of the decision, there are questions about money. The Christian People's Party believes that there is a need for additional funding here, and we look forward to constructive and good negotiations in the revised budget for 2018. The second part is more challenging and is contained in an agreement between Health South-East and Borgestad that expires on 1 July of this year, which I believe should have been temporarily extended. But if Health South-East says they can't, it's hard to argue against. For the Christian People's Party, this is also what makes us think it should be assessed in the RNB. So this is about covering costs from 1 July until the new agreement is in place after the additional offer. With this I address the proposals of the Christian People's Party alone, and proposal No. 5, which we are with the Workers' Party, the Center Party and SV about.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1453	The representative of Olug V. Bollestad has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1458	This case is about those who don't have the highest and strongest voices, but who all the more need society to stand up for them. There has been a lot of turbulence in retrospect around the offer Health South-East implemented. As a society, we need to be willing to give priority to good treatment for addicts, whether in the area of alcohol or gambling — both for their part and for relatives and for society. Of course, once a tender has been made, the rules of the game applicable to just public acquisitions must also be followed by the public, even if the outcome would not be complete as one had thought or hoped. However, it is worrying when sound professional environments that have developed high skills over the decades are crumbling as a result of the tendering process. The urban clinic has a solid position both in users, in the professional community and in society, a competence that should be valued. However, what is not governed by the Law on Public Acquisitions is the Health South-East choice, with the blessing of the Council of State, namely to reduce the number of treatment sites, or as the Council of State has so nicely said in one of its letters, ‘Number of places are being reduced somewhat’. In Agder, Lolandsheimen has been very central for a number of years to help those who struggle with addiction. It may be worth noting what the majority of the committee consists of an overall opposition, the members of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, SV and the Christian People's Party, write in the setting: «The majority are particularly concerned about the Agder region, which will remain as the major loser in the tender with 27 fewer places.» We should not be given large geographical differences in the type of treatment offered. For me, it is difficult to see that this on the part of the government is a bet on those who are struggling with drug addiction. Both the golden rule and the drug reform will be advocacy without content if we, as a community, choose not to give priority to this type of action when it comes to action. When, in the current year, the Workers' Party will strengthen hospitals and health businesses by over 1 billion. kr more than the government, it is precisely because one should have the opportunity to offer a better offer, among other things. to those who are struggling with drug dependence. It is a very clear signal when the majority of the committee asks the government to ensure that in Health South-East an additional offer of 10 detoxification sites is opened up as soon as possible in order to avoid detoxification capacity. This will also give the City Council clinic a new chance – of course within the framework of public procurement legislation. The proposal is a signal that the majority takes care of the drug seriously, and a clear message to the government that we should help those who need it the most, first, rather than new tax cuts for those who have the most. I am proud that the Workers' Party is in favour of this signal. I'm addressing proposal No. 1, which is part of the Workers' Party together with the Centre Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1480	The representative, Tellef Inge Mørland, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1485	When we buy healthcare, it's primarily about ensuring that the population gets the services they need. It is the regional health companies that have responsibility for care, and it is they who are to assess this and ensure that the offer is put in place. The RHFs base their acquisitions on both quality and cost assessments. They want to get as much health as possible to everyone for the means we have at our disposal. The health service must make effective use of the total allocated resources in order to provide the population with the best possible range of services, both qualitatively and in terms of capacity. When put up for competition, there will necessarily be consequences. Some institutions often find it dramatic. In the case we're discussing here, there were several ideal actors who participated in the competition, and one of them won. It is demanding both politically and for those who are involved in this, but if we have the best possible healthcare for as much as possible and get the most out of resources, this is a good way to work. We also see that new ideal actors have come to where others have taken market share. In some cases, non-profit actors are crowding out purely commercial actors, so this picture is complex. In this case, the majority ask the government to ensure that in Health South-East there is an additional offer for 10 detoxification sites that can replace the 10 sites that according to their claim are built down. One also asks to purchase additional premises until this is in place, with the clarification that it is in line with today’s public procurement legislation. That is a condition for everything we do, that we follow the legislation, but it is useful that it is clarified in a decision. As I've been through, this will cost you $40 million. kr. It's somewhat moderate in the new proposal, but it's still problematic, in our opinion. I also wonder that at Stortinget we should be better able to assess the need for places than the company that is set to manage the whole of healthcare in the region. In fact, a decision on multiple locations in addition to the tender involves a risk of overcapacity in this area, which will obviously affect other parts of the service offer. I'm afraid, if one of them goes into an individual offer and says that we're going to fix it, here we're going to buy more places, we're going to intervene in individual cases, which are likely to have unintended consequences for other parts of the healthcare system. We have a total pot that we're going to use for health, and then we have to make sure that it is used as properly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1498	The centre party is concerned because we see a slow decline in the non-profit sector in Norway. In spite of the beautiful political commitment of all the parties involved to the importance and necessity of a strong and expanding non-profit sector, it is therefore another reality that is out in practice. The non-profit-making non-profit sector has grown over the years and has built a high level of competence. In many cases, the non-profit sector has a model for the development of public health, and the aim of the Centre is that the non-profit sector should not be a supplement, as many say, but an integral part of a strong public health supply. We clearly distinguish between private ideal providers and private commercial providers. In 2016, the Central Party presented a proposal to the Stortinget to ask the government. ‘introduce a target of 25 % of the overall care sector to be organised and run as a non-profit-making activity by 2030’. We didn't get a lot of that, but we got a lot of them because the Storting asked. ‘The Government establishes an objective of growth in the share of the overall health and care sector to be organised and run as a non-profit activity and, in an appropriate manner, submit to the Storting a plan of short-term and long-term action to achieve this’. In the proposal we are making today, there is criticism of the bidding round in Health South-East when it comes to drug treatment, and that is the good reason for it. The number of regular long-term locations is reduced from 23 to 10, 10 of which are created and not replaced, the number of daily spaces is reduced from 129 to 110, and the number of out-of-patient consultations is reduced from 8 000 to 5000. Health South-East believes that the purchase has contributed to strengthening the services. A number read the difference between the quality and the capacity of the region’s detoxification capacity as a result of the offer. When 20 detoxification sites in the Blue Cross are replaced by ten places in the health clinic, it is a halve. State councils say that the reduction of treatment sites can be explained by the introduction of detoxification in the Health South-East offer as part of treatment. That's what I think is special. There are currently national professional guidelines for this type of service, and there is nothing in these guidelines that implies that the integration of detoxification into a holistic treatment course should lead to a lower need for treatment sites. For this reason, health South-East offers a real loss of treatment capacity for people with alcohol dependence and/or drug problems. The government platform states that this treatment provision should be strengthened. Now the opposite happens. We're making suggestions on what I'm dealing with now, and some other suggestions. I think it's stupid that not the Christian People's Party is with us on the proposal that there should be more treatment places for alcohol addicts. Elles, we support the plural proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1525	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1530	Following a call for tenders in the field of multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment, two unique institutions with a very long seagoing duration shall be closed. That's the two Blue Cross City Clinics in Drammen and Vennesla. ==References== 16-17 pst. Over the course of life, the adult population will suffer from a drug problem, about half of which is drug use. 13 pst. an alcohol disorder and approx. 6 pst. a drug problem. Most addicts in this country use alcohol, and many of these are older. The tender carried out will reduce the supply to alcohol and drug addicts and to game addicts, and it also weakens gender-based treatment. Good professional environments, top skills and interdisciplinary teams are not built overnight. It is continuity and cooperation over time that creates professional environments with unique offers. These two institutions have gained experience, good results and unique treatment methods in the field over 40 and 70 years, respectively. As a result of the closure, the number of daily places will be reduced in the region. There will be fewer short-term locations, fewer regular long-term locations, investigation facilities and outpatient capacity being reduced, and the service will be moved further away from the people using the offer. The Agder region will remain as the major loser in the tender, with 27 fewer places. In Buskerud, DPS is used as an alternative. It's not real. The pressure is high, and many will be rejected. Many of the patients in the West Viken HF will receive detoxification, diurnal treatment and outpatient treatment in three different locations. This will not give patients better and more seamless transitions. Patients at the Stadtestadklinikken in Skien and pregnant and young children's parents are now thought to be detoxified at the Hospital Telemark before being transferred to the clinic. These patient groups were previously detoxified at the highly specialised offer of the Borgestad clinic in the neighbourhood building of the Borgestad department, with closeness to the treatment team that was to follow them further. As a result, patients at Brerens had a seamless course of detoxification, 24-hours and outpatient clinics in two neighboring buildings in the Drammen. This offer will now be gone. In the last few years, there has been an increase in the number of consultations with game addicts. This is also going to be a problem. This is a value question: is it going to be the short-term buying-and-sale tank that governs, or are people's needs going to be in the center?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1545	I refer to the adjusted proposal that has been distributed, and to the statements by the case-rapporteur/committee leader, and I am pleased that some of the matters that I pointed out in my letter have been taken into account. However, there is reason to stress some of the issues that are demanding with the proposal that seems to have a majority, which I feel responsible for informing the Storting about. I notice that someone thinks there is a need for more capacity for detoxification. I would like to remind you that during my business meeting with Health South-East I requested that the detoxification capacity should be maintained in the area. I also believe that it is fulfilled. This is fulfilled, as I have also stressed earlier, by the fact that the idea that is now in the professional guidelines is that normal detoxification is an integral part of a treatment course in multidisciplinary specialised treatment. If the Storting now wants ten new detoxification sites to be established, the question is whether these are regular detoxification sites, which are now part of a TSB treatment course. Then it's not wise to establish this as a separate place, then there should be multidisciplinary places, i.e. TSB spaces. The ten places now established at the Hospital Telemark relate to detoxification, which requires highly specialised both somatic and psychiatric competence, where one must have this competence together. Of course, if one is to have ten new places, it should represent what is today's professional approach. I would also like to remind you that one of you is now working on a package within the drug field, where there should be no waiting time, i.e. that detoxification and start-up of multidisciplinary specialised treatment should take place on the same day. By dividing this up, it happens that the Storting and I have been busy many times is a problem, that people come in to detoxification, and then they have to go back and wait for further follow-up. This also has a cost side, and I am glad that the rapporteur indicates that it may need to be dealt with in budgetary negotiations. With regard to part two of the decision, I would like to remind you that there may be obvious legal obstacles in the way of the government ensuring a special offer of an additional agreement. According to Health South-East, there is no legal basis for continuing today's agreement with the Blå Kors Borgestadklinikken. Therefore, when we are to follow up the recommendation in Part Two of the Decision, this could be an illegal direct acquisition. I am therefore pleased that the majority of the Committee has made this reservation that public acquisitions should be respected and that the law should be taken into account. I would also like to stress that this offer led to several non-profit actors getting ahead and running their offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1561	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1566	I find that the Council of State seems to be very satisfied with the result of the offer for drug treatment carried out by Health South-East. However, his own parliamentary Vice-President, Svein Harberg, and two other Right-Representatives, together with the rest of the Southern Basin, sent a letter to the Council of State with strong criticism of the offer and with concern for the offer of detoxification and treatment in Health South-East. Among other things, the letter states:\t\t You can change the settings ‘This reduces the supply of drug users in our region, and it is difficult to understand that this decision is in line with the Stortingen signals on strengthening drug supply and on strengthening the non-profit sector.’ The letter was sent by the Right-Representative Harberg and ends, among other things. by characterising the health decision of the South-East as ‘very unwise’. Does the Council of State think that in this matter it is his own parliamentary Vice-President who is very unwise, or should the Council of State have liked one to have obtained a different solution in connection with the tender, which would have strengthened the treatment offer in the field to a greater extent?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1578	I'm not saying someone's wrong, but I think it's a good idea to listen to not just one actor in this case. This acquisition has allowed for the establishment of agreements with three additional non-profit institutions, in addition to the fact that the Borgestadklinik still has a very large and central role in the provision of this patient group. The way a numerator places can quickly lead to a counting away. As I said, detoxification should now – in line with the new guidelines – be an integral part of a treatment course in the TSB. It is precisely to avoid what has been much criticised in the past – that you are offered a detoxification site, but so there is no connection in the offer, so you have to print again and wait to get into a TSB offer afterwards. It will not be possible after the introduction of the new package sequences and it is important that new tenders take this into account, so that this is an integral part of the treatment offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1587	I thank you for your answer. The Council of State itself acknowledges by letter to the Committee of 5 April that ‘number of places are being reduced somewhat’. For Agder, this means that the number of treatment sites is reduced by 27, resulting in dramatic consequences for Lolandsheimen, the district of the Borgestadklinikken in Vennesla. The consequences are also very great at Brerens in Drammen and at the Stadtestadklinikken in Skien. Over many years, highly competent professional environments have been built in these departments, which are now being broken up. At the same time, treatment capacity in the region of Health South-East is reduced. In the future, would we have to expect the Council of State to sit still while the number of treatment sites in the drugs and addiction field continues to be ‘reduced somewhat’, or will the Council of State ensure that the reduction that has taken place in connection with this bid to Health South-East becomes the exception and not the rule?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1594	I think it is quite serious that the representative in such a transparent way creates a wrong impression of my response to Stortinget. He reads half a sentence, deliberately stops at a comma and does not complete the sentence. The sentence in the answer is: ‘Number of sites will be reduced slightly, but sites will be better exploited by establishing a comprehensive treatment course.’ That's the quote, and I'd like to ask the representative to stop misrepresenting my quotes. That's exactly what's in what I've explained in my post in Stortinget. With regard to the number of places in multidisciplinary specialised treatment, not least in the case of non-profits, I would remind you that multidisciplinaryly specialised non-profit drug sites had been adopted – several of them had been closed – when I assumed responsibility as Minister of Health. They are again open and operate extensive treatment, precisely as a result of a government change in 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1608	It's probably not just me who has such an opinion. I perceive the letter as an overall southern bench, as a signal that even the Right's representatives from at least Agder find it problematic that the outcome has been obtained in connection with this tendering procedure. Then the question is, is it still such that there are Right representatives from Agder who have not understood anything, or could it be that the situation that has arisen is also about what kind of economic space Health South-East has had in connection with the purchase of spaces, and that you would ideally have stronger economic muscles, so that you could have bought more capacity in this field?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1615	Health South-East has improved the economy to buy places within multidisciplinary specialised treatment as a result of the fact that the Right, Christian People's Party, the Advance Party and the Left now govern Norway. I would like to remind you that Phoenix Haga was adopted under Jonas Gahr Støre as Minister of Health. The Finnmark collective did not continue the agreement under Jonas Gahr Støre as Minister of Health. These are institutions that are now up and going and treating patients. This tender represents an extension of the financial framework of 20 million. kr in addition to the framework of the last tender, under a Workers' Party-led government. It was also an extension of the economic base. The background to the fact that the Borgestadklinik itself terminated this agreement that they had entered into was that the economic conditions of the previous agreement were so bad that it was not possible to live with it. There is also a reason why health in the south-east increased the financial framework and that the institution is now better paid for its activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1624	The council said that there are ten detoxification sites at the Borgestadklinik, and then there are ten places built at the Hospital Telemark. The situation at the Hospital Telemark is that they have to ask doctors from Borgestad to go into watchkeeping arrangements separately. The public actually pays double the price of the City Council clinic ten places, to get it updated. During a Question Time here in the Chamber, the Council of State answered direct questions from the undersigned whether he thinks it is okay that the public has built up services that the ideals could actually serve. The councils answered no. What does the Council of State think about what is done in Telemark – building down spaces and asking those who work there, to walk guards where places are being built – which actually destroys the portfolio of the Borgestadklinik as a whole?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1631	I stand for what I said about the fact that it is not right that the public build up offers that ideals can serve. But that's not the case with the ten places. It was clear in advance of this offer that, just as in all of our other health regions, there is a need for highly specialised detoxification sites with high somatic competence to detoxify the sickest patients. I didn't really see anything particularly controversial before the tender either. That the Hospital Telemark then, in order to solve the task for which they have a responsibility, entered into a partnership with the Blue Cross in order to avail themselves of their competence and pay for it, I think it is positive. It also shows a willingness to work with private ideals to solve public health problems, for this is an offer that could not have been made with the same quality in a hospital that does not have a somatic offer in addition.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1636	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1654	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1663	In January this year the evening post had a notice that Norwegian hospitals spend 900 million kroner. every year to hire temporary workers. From 2012 to 2017, health care professionals spent a total of 4.3 billion. on the accommodation of nurses, nurses and other health professionals. Recruitment difficulties for health professionals are not a national problem; they are a global problem. On a world-wide basis, almost 4.3 million health workers are missing, and in this setting, a joint committee points out that the goal in Norway must be to achieve the most resilient national service provision with qualified labour and to avoid unethical recruitment of workers from countries with a critical shortage of health professionals. It's a basically important remark. In the setting of this proposal for a representative, there is a joint committee which, in its comments, makes it clear that temporary workers should only be able to replace permanently in the event of illness, etc., and not be a fixed way of manning our health and care services. A joint committee also points out that low basic staffing can lead to a higher level of sick leave and an increased need for temporary workers. Multiple fixed settings in health and care services will be able to counteract the need for accommodation. A Joint Committee also writes that it is very important that the healthcare service reduces the use of external tenants to an absolute minimum and has its own plans for long-term recruitment and training of its own competent staff. A joint committee also points out that high levels of temporary work in health care services will affect quality and pose a risk to patient safety, and that the use of the agency is also more expensive than the provision of own health workers. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, SV and the Christian People's Party are behind the plural position, one of which, in the proposal for a decision, you ask the government to review the temporary employment of health professionals in order to ensure that their use is not contrary to the rules of the labour law, and in the proposal for a Decision II, the government is asking for a step-down in the use of external housing in healthcare professionals in parallel with increased use of fixed-term temporary workers, also known as temporary work pools. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV are behind minority proposals to ask the government to ensure that all health care providers have schemes with a temporary work pool, to facilitate the provision of permanent temporary work to the maximum possible part-time work to provide them with a full-time job, to take an initiative towards the social partners in order to cooperate in the creation of a temporary work pool with permanent temporary workers in the municipalities, and to establish concrete and measurable requirements for a higher proportion of full-time work in health care establishments. I would therefore recommend that the Committee adopt its proposals for decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1676	First, I would like to add a tribute to the proposers for making important proposals – in the spirit of the Workers' Party. An overall committee stresses that temporary workers should only be able to replace permanent workers in the event of sickness, etc., and not be a fixed way of manning health and care services – well. The Committee also points out that high levels of temporary use may affect quality and pose a risk to patient safety. But the government parties are jumping off when it comes to concrete proposals. Nor will they be involved in saying that full-time culture contributes to higher quality of service and lower sick leave. Furthermore, an overall committee states that there is reason to believe that healthcare businesses have not done enough to avoid the use of externally hired health workers. All batches also say that it is very important that healthcare reduces the use of external rentals to an absolute minimum — very good. And the Workers' Party, the Center Party, the SV and the Christian People's Party provide a majority for the proposal of just such a slowdown, which the government has to take care of. But then the government parties jump off again. Is it because they don't want increased use of regular temporary workers, also known as temporary swimming pools, with which, for example, Haukeland University Hospitals have good experience? Ahus also assesses a similar manning center. Fortunately, it is a majority in favour of the proposal. The majority are also in order to ask the government to review the temporary employment situation of health care businesses to ensure that their use does not conflict with the provisions of the Health and Safety at Work Act. But neither will the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. Section 14-9 of the Working Environment Act states that employees are to be hired permanently. Here is a manifest difference in Norwegian policy. What kind of signals do the government parties give? Either way, we assume active follow-up from the government of what we adopt later today. Several suggestions in the vote should have been given to the majority. I cannot help but understand that the Christian People's Party must be very close by supporting in particular the proposal to ask the government to take initiative against the social partners in connection with the establishment of temporary work pools in the municipalities. The Christian People's Party is together with us in flourishing mention of the importance of offering permanent workers temporary workers in the municipalities and the importance of cooperation between especially smaller municipalities. But it's not too late to join yet, so it was my little call. Anyway, we're adopting something that's important here today, but really we're close to the potential to adopt even more that's important. It was for the representative of Bollestad in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1691	Should the representative make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1696	I heard Toppe recommend the Committee's attitude. In addition, I would like to address the proposals in which the Workers' Party is co-sponsored – and these are all minority proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1701	The representative, Tore Hagebakken, then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1706	We in the Right agree that the number of reduced posts must be reduced to as low as possible. It is important for everyone who wants to have a full position to go to. It is the duty of every owner and manager to turn the stones that are needed to get more employees into a full-time position. At the same time, the health service is a complex service where there is a need for employees at all times of the day and where the need for staffing varies throughout the day. It is not desirable to have a large number of employees during periods of low manning needs, and abundance also has a cost side at the expense of other health care needs. The hiring-in of health professionals should be the exception and not the general rule. Renting will often be costly and often a result of poor planning. In a matter like this, it is wrong to indicate that the manning industry is acting unlawfully, or that it is engaged in gross exploitation of people. The vast majority of agencies act in a good way and each year solves a completely necessary and legitimate need for the workforce of employers. The recruitment agencies also provide a large number of jobseekers with the opportunity to gain training and experience, which gives them the necessary experience to get a regular job later. This also has a high social value that should not be underestimated. For more full-time jobs, both health and employee employers and their organisations need to be flexible. The use of part-time for permanent staff in hospitals has decreased by more than 20 pst. in all health regions since 2010. The proportion of employees who have received a higher employment rate has also increased, so much positive has happened in recent years. This is an important matter for very many people. It is important that as many as possible get a full job. One of the objectives of the Jeløia Platform is to promote the establishment of a full-time culture in the labour market. Having a job that makes it possible to support yourself, the family and contribute to the community is important to all of us. ‘The government’s objective is a safe and flexible low-unemployment and high-employment labour market’ is also stated in the Jeleia Platform. The general rule shall be fixed employment. At the same time, the SV's proposals are far-reachingly met by established requirements. This is an area that requires continuous improvement, a work in which all parties must participate and demonstrate their willingness to obtain good solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1719	After many years of work experience in the health and care sector, I am convinced of one thing: the quality of welfare services and the employment of employees are two sides of the same coin. If we are to have secure services with continuity and security for the inhabitants, we depend on having safe employees. Therefore, it is good to stand here today and promote the SV’s proposal and know that the government with orders from the Storting must now review the temporary employment situation in healthcare companies, ensure that the use of external rents is stepped down and increase the use of permanent temporary workers. The general rule shall be full and permanent. At the same time, we know that in the workplace, especially in health services where employees work closely with people, there will always be some sickness, absence and need for temporary workers. Clearly there is a need for extra resources from time to time. I don't think anyone, at least those who have worked in healthcare, will refuse. The problem is when this need is misused when part-time employees do not suffer major job breaks when there is a clear need for it both at the individual and at the workplace. The problem is when a part - time employee ends up at the bottom of the call list because one day she was sick and could not take a guard. The problem is when the temporary workers are being exploited illegally and severely, such as The revelations of Orange Health have shown us. The problem is when unduely expensive contributions are made to the employment agencies. Large sums of money are used to hire people instead of spending money to secure permanent employment and more entire jobs. However, if the agencies are to be used, there is a need in the workplace to reach people. But this is not a need for recruitment agencies. This should be better politically driven. In concrete terms, the need is for better public systems to ensure that municipalities and health services have access to temporary workers and to ensure more permanent jobs. Haukeland University Hospital, where part-time employees are given a better position and fill in with a permanent temporary job at the top of the part-time position, is a good example. It is possible to ensure more security and jobs for the employee and more continuity and security for service users, even if temporary workers are needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1736	The Christian People's Party agrees with the proposers in the goal of permanent jobs in the health and care services, and that temporary employment needs to be reduced. Low ground crews give little elongation in case of sickness and absence, resulting in increased temporary use. That is why the Christian People's Party is engaged in good basic staffing in the health and care services, both in hospitals and in the municipalities. At the same time, the Christian People's Party must say that it is important not to criminalise an overall personnel industry. Many agencies solve every year a completely necessary and legitimate need for the workforce of employers, whether municipal or hospital. Many places had not been able to make it in the summer, during vacation or when activity peaks were reached, if there had not been anyone who could come in with competence and quality. At the same time, it must also be said not to be abused, and there must be an orderly relationship for those who enter. We have to bring this with us when we want to be clear that fixed positions on the even are good for everyone. It's good for those who are planning health care, it's good for those who are planning their private lives, and it's incredibly good for those who are ill, knowing that there's someone I know, who's coming. That's why I think this is incredibly important for the entire healthcare system. And we must strive, preferably, as far as possible, to get full-time jobs in the Norwegian health care system. At the same time, as a KRF, I would like to say that those who want to take a reduced position will receive it, but they will have to offer full jobs. I got an invitation from the Workers' Party's Tore Hagebakken, and it was nice. The Christian People's Party is concerned that tripartite cooperation is going to find good temporary pools, and there are actually a lot of municipalities and hospitals that have done this. I myself was the rapporteur in a municipality where we did this, with good effect, thinking that this lives out in the municipalities. That is why the Christian People's Party is involved in promoting the committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1750	For several years I have been demanding health care regions that hospitals work with a full-time culture and that as much as possible be employed in full-time jobs. It provides better services, and it ensures continuity in the follow-up of patients. Work in hospitals and in health regions has produced results. The use of part-time for permanent staff in hospitals has decreased by more than 20 pst. in all health regions since 2010, and the reduction has continued every year since then. From January 2013 to March 2018, the reduction ranged from 3,5 pst. to 17.1 pst. between health regions. At the same time, the proportion of staff who have received a higher employment rate has increased. The average employment rate for permanent staff is about 90 pst. in all health regions. So the development is going in the right direction, but we're not in the right direction. Permanent full-time jobs are important to maintain and further develop skilled labour, recruit competent staff, develop a good working environment and reduce sick leave. It is a managerial responsibility to ensure proper and sound manning. I believe that health businesses must have the freedom to organise their resources and adapt to local variations and needs. It is good that several hospitals have established their own temporary swimming pools or crew units. It's positive. Employees in part-time jobs are given the opportunity to increase their job rates and the individual is given the opportunity to build skills. Such solutions have also contributed to the firmness of newly trained health professionals throughout their jobs, and the action can also improve recruitment in the long term. The government has also promoted a bill that strengthens the legal position of part-time employees. The use of external rentals in the specialist health service is largely very low. Renting is used as a last resort to cover absences and challenges related to the recruitment of appropriate competences. Health enterprises have developed thorough procedures relating to the conclusion of framework agreements with agency staff. Hospital purchases HF are used as joint contract manager and for the follow-up and review of framework agreements concluded. With regard to the proposal to initiate permanent workers in the municipalities, I would like to remind you that I do not have the same control over the municipalities. Local authorities and social partners need to identify measures and instruments in the municipal sector. I believe that the proposal by the representatives has been well taken care of through established requirements and reporting procedures. Systematic work over several years in health regions with strategic manning and competence planning reduces the use of external rentals and increases the proportion of permanent employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1765	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1770	I feel that there is a great deal of consensus, both politically and professionally, that permanent, entire positions are good for quality. The question is whether the framework conditions are present, both in the community health service and in the specialist health service, in order to realise them. There have been many rounds of cuttings also in hospitals, under different governments. What has then been very common is that strict recruitment control is introduced when the budget is going down. I have now received information from Sjøl that the Hospital Inland must cut down quite a lot, and then the offer is that strict recruitment control is the answer. Then there will be fewer and fewer permanent employees, the patients will come anyway, and then you have to hire temporary workers, because it doesn't work out. You kind of work into a kind of chronic for low ground crew. I understand that there are many who are working on this, but I think there is a ‘mismatch’ somewhere between the savings requirements and the economic governance requirements being laid down, and working out both full-time culture and fixed-term jobs and using staff resources as rational as possible. No one has criminalised the temporary employment agencies, but I think we all agree – and that is what I started with, and the council nodded – that whole, permanent jobs are what ensures the best quality. Then it's stupid to pay a lot more for an employee who builds up skills and the next time is another place, instead of thinking a little bit longer-term -- hire people fast, have a slightly larger basic staff, so that you can also take these turns a little more seagoing and actually build up competence in your own business. The concept of ‘responsible manning’ is grounded all the time, and one must assume that it is done. In practice, however, increased temporary use is being promoted by chronic under-staffing and under-funding of health services.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1781	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1797	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that – within the allocated speaking time – up to five rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1806	The proposers address a very serious issue here. The background to the proposal is inter alia: that in December 2017, the National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress published a study indicating that about 65,000 over 65 years of age are exposed to violence in Norway. An overall committee is concerned about this. Although studies show that violence against the elderly is widespread, there is, however, very limited research into hospital abuse. It is therefore high time that a multi-method study on violence and abuse against elderly patients in Norwegian nursing homes should now be started, and the Committee would like to obtain information on the results of this study when available. However, the majority of the Committee considers that there is too little focus on violence in close relationships between older people, whether in institutions or at home. It is therefore important to carry out a comprehensive study in order to gain more knowledge of the extent of violence against the elderly, in order to take effective action to combat this. Older people are as diverse a group as everyone else. Older people can be healthy, active, and they like to be resources in the community. Elders can also be sick and needy. In a couple relationship, older people can be patients and relatives. In all these roles, situations of violence may arise, and in many cases older people may be very vulnerable. For some people, illness can lead to a change in personality, aggressiveness, and obsessiveness. This, in turn, may lead to violence on the part of relatives. In nursing homes, violent situations may arise that employees have to deal with. A Joint Committee underlines that human rights apply to all, regardless of health and life situation, but will in particular stress that people with dementia diagnosis have a particular vulnerability and risk of impairment of rights, because, among other things, the disease. affect communication skills and result in dependence on the assistance of others. The Committee shares the view of the National Association for Public Health that systematic user involvement is essential for the protection of human rights in the care of the elderly. The majority of the Committee points out that the long-term solution to violations of human rights in the care of the elderly is higher basic staff. More professionals at work will provide more time for the care and proper treatment of all patients. It will also be easier to detect care failure and abuse when there are enough employees at work, both in hospital and at home. The Workers' Party, the Centre Party, SV and the Christian People's Party are behind the Committee's position: ‘The Swedish Government is asking the Government to assess concrete measures to prevent abuse of hospitals by means of good basic staff, better management and training of hospital staff.’ With that, I would like to thank the Cooperation Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1825	It is very good that the Socialist Left puts care failure and abuse in the care of the elderly on the agenda. There is a lot of focus on violence and abuse against children and young people, but older people we talk too little about. In my time as a City Councillor in Oslo, I learned many disturbing stories, about what happened both at home, at home and at home. Older people are beaten up by spouses and children, older people who are being abused by relatives, older people who have children who are drug addicts and who threaten to steal money — older people who live in hell. Protection for the elderly was a fantastic offer that we had in Oslo, and that's still there. You have now also received a national contact telephone, and that is very, very good. I think it is good that the Research Council has been allocated funds for the study of violence and abuse against elderly residents in nursing homes, because we need more knowledge about what is going on. It is good that it is put on the agenda for the training of employees, because it is they who need to see what is going on. Much is almost too incredible to be true. That's why it's important that you know what can happen, and know the signs of what's happening. It is also good that we have been asked for a police record for those who want to work in the municipal health and care service, from 1 January 2017. It was a matter I repeatedly sent letters to the red-green government, because I saw the need to get it in place. We have examples of domestic employees cheating and stealing from residents and then looking for a job in other municipalities, where they could continue this practice. That's why it's so good that after many, many years this is finally in place. There has been a good deal, but much more has to be done. I am absolutely sure that the Senior Minister will give priority to this area. This is about the security and dignity of the elderly, who deserve the very best.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1834	First, I would like to mention the proposal from SV and the Central Party in the setting. The proposal we are discussing now has been promoted several times before. I must admit that the first time I got the report from the Knowledge Centre in my hands, I was very shocked. I knew things were going on, but the extent of the report on violence and human rights violations is very serious. That's why we're taking a few small steps, but I have to say it's a pity that the majority of you won't be able to get a proper survey of the situation this time either. Several of those who have been up and spoken before me say that this is both about enough staffing and about the quality of the crew. That's right, of course. One thing is that the least possible should be alone in work where one can risk being subjected to violence himself, but also to violence against others. We know that in many of these jobs, one is alone at work with a lot of responsibility. The nurses' union had a survey this winter that we're going to have an interpellation in a few days. It is about people in the care service having to use both tranquilizers and sleeping medicine because they are alone at work and are unable to do their job. This is also about the fact that there must be enough qualified people at work, that the amount of work is such that they are actually able to do their job properly. I have read a little in the 2017 Health Authority’s Supervisory Notice and seen how they have supervised, for example, the following: the health and care services of municipalities. For the purpose of the obligation of soundness, § 4-1, they have, for example: 623 cases were assessed, and 252 cases have reported a criminal offence: that is, a crime – not something that is regrettable, but a crime. These are the issues that have been examined. All of this doesn't have to be violence or that kind of thing, but it's pretty serious. There is a need for both monitoring, information, knowledge and better staffing to ensure at least that there are enough people at work – that the lack of care is not due to insufficient capacity and staffing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1847	The representative, Karin Andersen, has drawn up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1852	So Norway has got its first senior minister, and that's good. But one’s own senior minister is not the same as getting rid of all the challenges in the care of the elderly. We must be willing to see that violence and abuse are a fact, and decide to actually prioritize action against this. The Christian People's Party, together with the government parties, has set up a commission of investigations to investigate incidents and other serious health and care issues, including care failures and abuses in the care of the elderly. Violence against the elderly shall not occur, and the Christian People's Party supports the proposers in that violence and abuse against the elderly must be combated and not least prevented. It has to be a systematic effort, it has to work across services, and one has to work towards the same goal – not just in the care of the elderly. One must look at this in the municipal, judicial and family and cultural committees. This has to be a focus on group. Nor should we lose focus on violence in close relationships among the elderly. It must be combated both at home and in the institution. Then we have to come in with measures long before we almost think it exists. Violence — whether it is for the elderly, or for the young — we have to believe that we can see it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1861	In 2014, the National Human Rights Agency presented the report referred to in this proposal, Human Rights in Norwegian Hospitals. It was concluded that the treatment in Norwegian hospitals is hardly in accordance with Norway’s human rights obligations. And the report pointed to the detection of serious cases where care failure and abuse have led to death, sexual exploitation, gross coercion and negligeeing, and also showed less serious situations which could also be a violation of human rights, for example. illegal use of coercion, fastening and non-consenting medication to make a bulwark calm, degrading treatment, such as having to go with diapers instead of being followed to the toilet and being charged with an untimely bedtime at night. This is also about human rights. As both research and previous supervisory reports indicate, and recurrent issues in the media indicate, inpatients in the sick home experience a lack of care and a lack of necessary health care. We can say this in this case without becoming guilty of crisis maximisation, because we have many reports that it is inevitable for the Storting to take seriously. The situation should not surprise us. In this case, as in birth cases, we have one of the world's best health services for the elderly, but at the same time we have to take seriously the feedback that has come. This is a serious matter. I've been involved in dealing with all three proposals from SV, and I'm worried, like the representative from SV, that we in Stortinget can't now get multiples for the proposals to do a mapping. We need to have knowledge, we need to take seriously what has appeared in previous reports, and we need to take the initiative ourselves to monitor this situation in Norwegian care for the elderly. Of course, it is good that a person has been given a number of references to a proposal to ‘assess concrete measures’ to prevent abuse in the hospital through good ground personnel, better guidance and training for those added to the hospital. We are concerned with the three most important things – good basic staffing, better hiring and training of addees. At the same time, this proposal is not formulated in such a very clear way as to ‘assess concrete actions’. I hope that we have a government that takes this seriously, that the new elder minister sees this as one of its most important tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1872	I think it has been said very well from various representatives here today. The representative of Bollestad is also important to clarify the need to work widely across ministries. As Minister of Older People and Public Health, I am concerned that values such as respect and human dignity should be fundamental in the services of our elderly. This was also an area I was concerned about as a magnification representative, violence in close relationships and how important it is that we all take responsibility for and improve the situation. The quality of the services will never be better than in the meeting between the health worker and the patient. Individuals shall have the security of obtaining necessary and sound services, but also of seeing each one as the human being is. The aim is that ethical reflection should be a natural part of the normal quality and professional development work of municipal health and care services. For this reason, the government has also granted funds for systematic efforts to increase the ethical competence of employees in the municipal health and care services. The law's requirement that the provision of health and care services to individuals be sound applies both at system level and not least at individual level. This must be in the back row of all those working in the health and care sector. At the same time, I would like to stress that we already have systems in place to deal with this. The State Health Authority is responsible for the overall professional supervision of health and care services. They assess whether the services comply with the applicable legislation. They also assess the conformity of manning and competence with the safety requirement. As I refer to in my letter to the Committee, the government is constantly working to provide good and sound services to elderly patients and users. Knowledge, competence and not least good management are crucial to ensuring good and sound health and care services. The Government has therefore strengthened the scheme of grants for the initial, further and further training of care staff. The total appropriation is above 355 million. kr in 2018. In 2016, nearly 4,300 employees used these schemes and completed an initial or continuing training. And it was about 17 700 employees who completed courses, internal training or other types of continuing training. The government has also strengthened the municipal economy in order to improve the ability of municipalities to provide good and valuable services to the elderly. Preliminary figures from the Statistical Central Bureau show that municipalities increased the annual work effort in the care service by less than 5000 annual works to a total of 143 000 annual works in 2017. Now this was a lot of numbers, but I just want to point out to Stortinget that this is an area that is important, and I think we cross-politically agree to lift the whole matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1889	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1894	One of the things the proposers are concerned about here is having a good enough basic staff in home care, nursing homes, etc. to provide good services. In the context of the revised national budget that has now been presented, the government is setting aside 140 million. extra to municipalities that are involved in attempts to finance the care of the elderly by the government, and justify this, inter alia. with increased demographic costs. How does the Minister of Older People perceive that other municipalities, which are not involved in the experiment, will be able to meet these challenges, including: to prevent violence and abuse and to ensure good manning in their care services?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1900	What is important is to see what the municipalities that do not participate in the experiment get over the framework. We've had an increase now in well 4 billion. kr to the municipalities of the Ministry of Local Affairs. I have to trust that the municipalities out there are conscious of their responsibility and choose the right to use the money. If we were to continue on the same track in terms of both how we work and the percentage increase we have in the number of older people, one third of our young people going to high school had to be in the care and care sector. It goes without saying that we don't want to do that. So we have to think about something new. We need to make jobs more attractive, build skills in continuing education and training, and not least strengthen professional environments.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1905	Thank you. What I'm asking is whether there is consistency between the strengthening that municipalities involved in the state funding of the care of the elderly get, against the other municipalities get – for all municipalities have equal need to strengthen their services, and the four billion to which the council refers are all services, while the 140 million to six municipalities are earmarked for the care of the elderly. How much is care for the elderly strengthened by the free income of the municipalities, enabling them to increase basic staffing and not least to prevent violence and abuse against the elderly?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1912	The President would point out that all speech should be addressed to the President – also thank you.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1917	The attempt at government funding is precisely to enhance the quality of municipalities and make them more similar. We have seen that there is too much difference in the care and care sector in the elderly out in the municipalities. That's one of the reasons why we've started an experiment. The capital we're now experimenting with is given because we've seen that in the six municipalities that participate, we've tried and failed and tested out, and it's proven that in some areas we're moving on, in other areas we've put it behind us. Therefore, I would not say that the need that the six municipalities are testing is synonymous with the need that is reflected in the municipalities. Then ask the representative what amount is relevant for the non-participating municipalities out there. It is up to each municipality to see what needs they have, and to give them the right priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1924	I feel that I am not getting a complete answer to the question, because it seems that these six municipalities are getting a reinforcement that the other municipalities do not benefit from. Will there then be a real comparison between the municipalities involved in state funding and other municipalities? Or is it that they are better able to solve the problems in the care of the elderly because of special increased frameworks, compared to all the other municipalities that are outside the experiment? That's what I want answers from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1929	What we see from the first report that came from the experiment is that the municipalities see that they have better knowledge of their users, that is, where the shoe prints. They put measures in place much more targetedly — perhaps before they have not taken them completely. And those who work in the sector say themselves that they've become much more aware of how they approach the quality level set. The knowledge is better, and also those who were initially skeptical about what this would be like, i.e., advisers and those who work in the floors, say that this has given them an eye-opening, to use such a word, that the place they thought they were going to put in the effort was not where it was. The next report comes in August, and it gets a little exciting, because then we've come a little bit further into seeing where we've landed, how this money has been spent, and what we've gotten out of it. So I'm glad to be able to look at that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1934	The reality is that there has not been one penny to the other municipalities in the audited budget, and there is nothing in the municipal budget to strengthen the care of the elderly, despite the fact that the demographic situation is similar in all municipalities – in some of the municipalities much worse. So there's a clear link between what municipalities actually have resources for, and the care they can provide, both by the number of employees and by the skills they can build and maintain, and not least by recruiting, which the Council of State also had in mind. The Council of State talks about the meeting between the health worker and the patient. But sometimes it happens that the meeting doesn't even happen, that is, the older ones stay lying without anyone seeing them, and without them being cared for. What has the Council of State prioritised in the revised budget and in the local economy for next year to meet this need?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1941	First, it may surprise me a little that the representative says that the other municipalities, who do not participate in the experiment, have not received funds for care and care. That's exactly what they got when we got the increase that we have. Or can I understand it so that the representative speaks for a greater degree of ringing, so that you know that the funds come directly? But then to the question, it's done a lot. Last night, in cooperation with Ageing and Health, we presented a programme for employees working in the care sector to be able to identify the demented need for communication out – 80 pst. of those in hospital today are demented — and to be able to detect not only e.g. pain etc., but also if things happen that are not good. In addition, we have set up a survey commission that looks at serious incidents and serious conditions out there. We also have a sample looking at change and modernisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1948	The money that has come into the revised budget now has not come to all the municipalities. It is directly wrong – they have not done so. The Council of State referred in its statement to the Health Inspectorate as one of the bodies in which the State supervises the absence of human rights violations or violence and abuses of care. I have the 2017 Communication with me, and I have a specific question to the Council of State: To what extent have the Board of State and the Government laid the foundations for the priorities of the local economy, so that it is possible to realise and – to put it that way – to remove the cause of many of the breaches that are reflected in this Communication in a number of areas, including the care of the elderly, where there are shortcomings that are both offences and, in part, human rights violations?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1955	First, to what the representative says about funds: the representative himself said that this was both the budget and the revised national budget, and the revised national budget is only an adjustment to the existing budget, where these funds have been inserted. But care 2020, where you need adequate and competent staffing, the investigation commission that I mentioned, that the Research Council is now working on multi-methodology in the area of violence and abuse, the cooperation that KS is now working on, and the means that have been set aside to correct some of the identified problems – all this is just one of them. But I'm going to give SV honor: when a third or fourth time fronts, one sees that year after year we get a little bit further with this. Now I want to take a look at the next round, at the evaluation that is being done, among other things. in the Research Commission, which will now present and look at the serious events and circumstances, and not least what the Research Council is working on, so that we can move forward in the next round.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1962	Then the line change is over. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1970	It is good that there is a great deal of agreement on the objectives, but it is a reality that if you want to do something about this, you have to give it economic priority. I come from a consultation on the local economy right now, and there is no doubt that there are major deficiencies there – an increase in staffing is needed to ensure that you are able to perform, among other things. the care tasks of the care services of the elderly. That's a big and growing need, because we know that because the population is ageing, more and more people will become demented. It requires an extra effort – it's staffing, and it's not free. Now we've counted how many there are that don't get hospitalized space, but that needs it. I want to give credit to the government for counting. But it can also be so serious that if you need a sick home and don't get it, it can end up in human rights violations. The family gets worn out, everyone gets worn out, it can be pretty terrible and heartbreaking situations around it. We know that now, but we haven't seen any trace of it in that government and the state council has prioritised. And that's the problem. I talk to health professionals every day, and what they say, is that there is no room in their working day to keep the professional level that is provided for. That's the problem in a lot of areas: fine plans are being made. Everyone agrees on the objectives, everyone agrees on the professional standards, and everyone learns it, but in everyday life this doesn't work out. It's serious. I believe that this is a choice of values in society. Are we going to spend more of society's common resources securing people when they're sick and old, or are we going to spend them on those of us who have the most, are healthy and well-expanded and do most of the sea? That choice is simple for SV – we choose to spend more money on this community, precisely because we know that the situation is so serious that even human rights violations are taking place in Norwegian care for the elderly. I do not think that is worth it in a country like Norway, which has resources. It's possible to prioritize things differently from what the government is doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1981	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e1997	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that – within the allocated speaking time – up to six rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2006	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee for its good and constructive cooperation with regard to the new Law on Vocational Education. We have written together on a common position in a number of areas, and it is very important in view of the further work on raising the status of vocational schools in society. At the same time, I would like to stress that we also have some areas where we disagree. The Committee agrees that the new law shall apply to vocational education and training courses accredited by the National Agency for Quality of Education, NOCUT. The Committee also notes that vocational education is a higher vocational education which is at the level of upper secondary education or equivalent real competence and which has an equivalent level of at least half a year and a maximum of three years of study. The new law is based on the existing law of 6 June 2003 No. 56 on vocational school education and is a follow-up to Stortinget's position on the vocational school report, Professionals for the future, which was dealt with here in Stortinget in the spring of 2017. The Committee notes that many provisions of the current Law on Vocational Education continue, but that the new Law provides for a new structure and structure and changes in the order of the provisions. The Committee also notes that substantive changes are proposed, mainly as a result of the need for new rules to follow-up measures proposed in the Notice. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. The Committee supports the proposal to legislate, inter alia: the right to a student body and to maternity leave for post-secondary students. The Committee also refers to the Ministry's proposal that all specialised schools should be entitled to a student relationship and considers this to be important in order to provide students at all specialised schools with a better welfare offer. The Labour Party will underline the need to strengthen vocational schools in the future, and that this, combined with a commitment to vocational training, will be important in recruiting new skilled workers and ensuring access to adequate skills for the coming years. Vocational schools must both make themselves visible and be made visible as a good, integrated part of an integrated education system and as a fully-fledged and equivalent alternative to higher education. The Committee would also stress that high-level vocational education is a key element in ensuring the labour force we need to cope with the transition of the Norwegian economy and working life and that there is a strong need for the competence of vocational schools today. The Workers' Party believes that new initiatives in vocational schools are important to strengthen the knowledge of higher vocational education, and that development measures are still needed to ensure the quality of training provision. Social and labour life must recognise the central place of vocational schools in the education system as a provider of important work and knowledge-based training for professionals in several disciplines. Vocational schools are a training offer developed in close cooperation with the social partners, they are flexible and meet very well the skills needs of a changing working life. Vocational schools are also important to ensure a good and adapted offer to professionals who wish to further specialise in continuing training and to create more educational opportunities and career paths as well as professional letters for these professions. The Labour Party believes that the vocational school is the education of the labour force, important for value creation and well-being and a contributor to productivity in Norway. Vocational schools play an important role in providing short and professional education to society, which is a good contribution to helping people to learn their whole lives. The majority of the Committee, members of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, SV and the Christian People's Party, believe that vocational education and training should provide sound higher vocational education and training based on the needs of the labour force and build on the formal tripartite cooperation in Norwegian vocational and vocational training. I would like to stress that the vocational schools are the education of the labour force, and that the opposition in that context will also strengthen the role of the parties in the development of the vocational schools. The proposal for a new vocational training law takes a step in the right direction by assimilating vocational education with education at universities and higher education institutions at, among other things. giving more equal rights to post-secondary students. By strengthening the governance and organisation of vocational schools, a few will have even better vocational education in the future. The aim of the survey has been to strengthen vocational education in order to meet society’s needs for short and vocational students. In conclusion, in my first post, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV, I would like to stress the need to invest heavily in new places of study at the vocational schools in the coming years to meet the needs of industry and society for skilled labour with good and relevant skills. The report of vocational schools has created a great expectation of a strong increase in places of study, so it is important for the government to follow this up in future government budgets. We will therefore refer to the NHO's competence survey, which states that there are skilled workers and the vocational education and training companies and the business community need the most in the years to come. Against this background, we also propose that the government return to the United Kingdom with a stepping-up plan for the number of post-secondary education places, which takes into account the growing needs of trade union workers. Then I will address the Labour Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2044	The representative, Jorod Asphjell, has drawn up the suggestions he made.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2049	This is really a joyous day for all post-secondary students, for our vocational schools and for all of us who burn for vocational education and training. The new law on vocational education, which we are dealing with here today, means a great, important and very right lift for this sector. It strengthens vocational education and will undoubtedly contribute to the increased status of education and to the strengthening of students' rights. The law states that vocational education and training are now defined as higher vocational education. This will enhance the recognition and clarity of the parallelness of post-secondary and post-secondary education and that both are at the upper secondary level. The term ‘higher vocational education’ sends an important signal both to potential applicants and, in particular, to the social partners about the important competence of the candidates from vocational schools. However, the term ‘higher vocational education’ is more than just a term. There is a great deal of emphasis on quality development for education and the vocational schools must be a real alternative to universities and colleges. The new law also treats vocational education to a large extent as universities and higher education institutions. In order to make education more equivalent, we are changing, among other things. the designation of the score from post-secondary to post-secondary credits. This will make the transition between colleges and universities much easier. It is important that we now reduce obstacles that make it difficult for students with vocational education to be able to build on their education at a university or college, or that a university or higher education student can expand his or her competence with a more practical, vocational and specialised education at a vocational school. Such mobility between vocational schools and universities and higher education institutions will strengthen the competence of both groups of students and will ensure our society even more competent candidates in the future. I am also very pleased that this law gives a historical boost to the rights and opportunities of the college students to participate and participate. The students are guaranteed representation on the boards of the colleges, and all specialised schools are now to facilitate the creation of a student body. Vocational schools also have the right to relate to a student relationship, which is important in order to provide students at vocational schools with a better welfare offer. Vocational school students receive the same rights to parental leave as students at universities and colleges, and the government parties earlier this year also called for the university students to be entitled to a student representative in line with other students. Another issue, in which the sector itself has been involved, is that it is important to introduce an comprehensible and recognizable designation. It is therefore gratifying that the subject-school sector, the post-school students and the social partners were able to gather on a clear recommendation on degrees for vocational education. We expect this recommendation to be given great importance in the further work. It is not without reason that vocational education is called the education of the labour force. Vocational education has been developed in close cooperation with the social partners. The requirement that the boards of specialised schools should have at least two members with a background to the relevant working life will help to ensure that vocational education continues to be the education of the labour force, well adapted to the needs of the business community and our country. I am very pleased that the government is so strongly committed to professional and professional competence, not least through the professional and vocational training programme. The report and the follow-up to this emphasis was placed on quality assurance, the development of study provision and quality development, and we have been given an extension of the offer at the vocational schools of more than 1,200 new places of study through an escalation of over two years. This corresponds to an increase of almost 10 pst., which must be called a significant bet. The new Ph.D. Act is a new contribution to the strengthening and promotion of vocational schools. Well, what better fit than now that we're in the years of professional life? I am sure that the notification of vocational education and the new law on vocational education will help to raise even more people's eyes to the quality of the vocational schools, to the education system. In the end, I will be allowed to take the opportunity to thank you for all the good recordings we have received in the work on this vocational school law. There has been a high level of involvement among many, not least at the Organisation for Norwegian Vocational School Students, the National Board of Vocational Schools, the Forum for Vocational Schools and the Parties to the Industry. All the recordings we have received have been important contributions to the fact that we have been able to submit a proposal for a law on vocational education that has become as good as it has been. Thank you very much to all those who have engaged.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2070	Today, the Storting deals with a new law on vocational schools, where we strengthen students' rights in a number of areas. There's a lot of consensus among the parties, and a lot of good has been said by the two previous speakers. In its work on the law, the Committee has changed the name of the law from «Law on Vocational Education» to «Law on Higher Vocational Education». It is an untraditional act of the Committee and the Stortinget to do so, but it was at a special request of the college students, as a sign that we are legally stating that vocational school is a higher vocational education, and that vocational school is at the level of secondary education. I will, as the previous speaker, praise the college students, who have been good at addressing issues with the parties. They've challenged us, they've been pragmatic and they've come up with solutions. I think they've been good at working on and presenting their cases, and it's shown again in the big message from two years back, but also in the law, by getting a number of breakthroughs. The legislative proposal strengthens the rights of students in several areas, including: the right to a student organ. There will be increased requirements for the quality of studies, you will be entitled to membership in a student relationship and the right to maternity leave. The new law also states that today’s vocational school credits are replaced by study credits, and former students may be given the opportunity for a limited period of time to convert their vocational school credits to study credits. We continue with this our strengthening of the vocational schools, which will improve the quality of education and contribute to the increased status of students. For the Progress Party, good and well-functioning laws and regulations are important, and that is why we are listening to the wishes of the technical school sector. We have not least noticed the industry's view of character systems, and that one agrees that ECTS is the best standard. We are serious about our commitment to the professions and the skilled worker, and it has been important for us in the Progress Party to be more equal to vocational education and training at university and higher education. The NHO competence survey shows that six out of ten member companies believe that they will need more staff with vocational training. The Progress Party wants more professionals to be selected, and the vocational schools are very important actors, with close contact with industry and the practical reality and with a training offer developed in close cooperation with business partners. Vocational schools are flexible and respond very well to the skills needs of a changing working life, and they are important in ensuring a good and adapted offer to professionals who want to further specialise in continuing training, and in creating more opportunities for development and career paths. They also play an important role in providing society with short and professional education, which is a good contribution to the ability of the population to learn throughout their lives. More people have to take vocational education. We must strengthen the vocational schools in the future. This, combined with a commitment to vocational training, will be important for recruiting new skilled workers in the coming years. Vocational education is the education of the labour force. It is important for value creation and well-being and an important contributor to productivity in Norway. High-level vocational education is very central to ensuring the labour force we need in order to cope with the transition that the Norwegian economy and working life are facing. For us in the Progress Party, it is important that everyone has an opportunity to become the best version of himself. That is what you do, among other things. by choosing the right education and going into value-creating work. Professionals have a key role to play here. We cannot train young people for unemployment. The vocational schools play a key role in this work, and the notification of vocational education and the law we adopt here today helps to strengthen the entire vocational education sector and facilitate value-creating education.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2093	We are pleased with the new law on vocational education. This is an important step and a signal to recognise the vocational schools as higher vocational education. Norway needs more skilled workers, and skilled workers deserve a real commitment to a multi-possibilities career. Today's case is an important follow-up to the post-school notification and the position of the committee last year. I also think that the Committee’s position on the title of the law – that it is precisely a clarification of higher vocational education – is an important clarification. It's a pleasure to bet on the rights of the college students. Linking student bodies and student partnerships, increasing visibility and gender equality with other educational institutions will help to make vocational schools more visible, accessible and attractive — as they should and should. I have also realized that several specialised schools already have an increase in the number of applicants for the start of the autumn study, which promises very well. Professional schools are just training professionals for the future. The challenge lies in the fact that the law does not go far enough and does not meet all the concerns and challenges that the sector has raised. Funding, structure, organisation of qualifications frameworks, study credits and real-time competence assessment are among the breaking points. In today's setting, there is a particular question of which study score system to use, there is controversy. The majority consider that a review of the Qualification Framework is necessary before the ECTS can be used. We experience that the majority undermine the vocational education and training courses as a higher professional competence and the assessment by other institutions in order to pursue further studies elsewhere. Nor does the internationalisation of the professional community receive help from the government in this matter. There's a reason to ask if there's a rematch in the question of giving the vocational schools credits. It is disappointing that the majority from last year do not complete an introduction of ECTS now. Furthermore, we experience that real competences are assessed in a way that we fear will limit the ability of many young people to enter vocational schools. Real competence doesn't know age. The professional communities themselves know best which students they can pick up, and what competence the students have. This is a professional assessment that we believe the vocational schools and the professionals themselves must be able to do, without interference from big business, department or directorate. That the Ministry shall lay down in the regulations which artistic training may be covered by the exemption and the number of pupils to which the exemption scheme applies in the event of admission to artistic training is precisely undermining the state-of-the-art and professional assessment of the schools themselves. The centre party believes that the place of the vocational schools in the qualification framework needs to be looked at. Furthermore, it is important that grants to and from county councils should equally facilitate both private and public vocational schools. The quality of the offer is what has to be determined. In order to increase recruitment to vocational schools, a stepping-up plan should be included in the government's long-term plan for research and higher education, to be seen for the autumn. Increased frameworks and increased opportunities for county councils to invest in post-secondary school places also need to be provided. The centre party is ambitious on behalf of our trade unionists, trade unions and vocational schools. They are in demand and crucial for Norway to be a good country to live in. This is a step in the right direction. The centre party will continue to be in charge of vocational and vocational education and the follow-up of the law. With this, I would like to address the proposal that the Central Party shares with the Socialist Left and the proposal that the Central Party alone has.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2112	The representative Marit Knutsdatter Strand has drawn up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2117	The need to strengthen vocational schools is considerable in the years to come. This must be done in combination with a commitment to vocational training. This effort must be seen in the context of the recruitment of new skilled workers in the coming years. Vocational schools shall be a well integrated part of an integrated education system and a fully-fledged and equivalent alternative to university and higher education. Vocational education and training shall provide solid vocational education and training based on the needs of the labour force and shall be based on formal tripartite cooperation within Norwegian vocational and vocational training. I would like to express my satisfaction that there is a great deal of cross-political agreement to strengthen the vocational schools as higher vocational education and to maintain and further develop the characteristics of the vocational schools. However, I believe that the bill does not go far enough, and that several of the contributions from the technical school sector have not been taken care of. Firstly, an ambitious step-up plan for post-secondary education must be put in place. This should be included in the government’s long-term plan for higher education and research. Secondly, heavy professional input has been made on the question of 21 years of age for applicants for vocational education. Today, universities and universities have exceptions to the requirement of general study competence for admission to certain arts education. One example is the Bachelor's programme in Art at the University of Bergen. They may include applicants who reach the age of 19 in the year of admission, even if they have failed to pass higher education. We therefore promote, together with the Workers' Party, a proposal that applicants who meet special technical requirements determined by the vocational school may be admitted on the basis of real competence if the applicant is 19 years of age or older in the year of admission. Thirdly, the Stortinget has decided that specialised schools may use the term ‘higher vocational education’ and that the route of education represents an equivalent professional alternative to university and higher education. SV believes that strengthening vocational schools as a professional career path at the level of secondary education in the education system is a key element in increasing the attractiveness and status of professionals. I note that the Right-Fremskritsparti – Left-Registration has chosen the Council of State responsible for, among others. kindergartens, primary and secondary education shall be the responsibility of specialised schools and not of the Council of State responsible for research and university and higher education. This is not a matter of concern. Fourth, the Committee appears to agree that it is important to introduce an comprehensible and recognisable vocational education qualification. Nevertheless, the majority of the majority in the UK will not vote in favour of the proposal that a person should receive a degree at 60 credits and a higher degree at 120 credits. SV supports an overall vocational school environment in that the degree designation must be included in the legislative proposal itself. Furthermore, Stortinget has had an intention to facilitate internationalisation. This requires that credits obtained in a specialised school and in higher vocational education can be converted into ECTS, the European Credit Transfer and Accumulation System. European countries with a well-developed level of vocational education use ECTS exclusively to convert their credits internationally. A natural consequence, therefore, is that credits obtained at a specialised school can be converted to ECTS in line with credits obtained at universities and universities. Finally, SV believes it is important to equalise the rights of all post-secondary students with those of other universities and colleges, and believes it is particularly relevant to ensure that all students who want to do so, the opportunity to avail themselves of student relations around the country. I take up the SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2140	The representative of Mona Fagerås has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2145	To meet the challenges of the future and to give all children and young people the opportunity to realise their potential, we need a diversity of both theoretical and practical courses of study, and we need different courses of education that allow everyone to get the training they need to qualify for a profession. I'm glad that with this proposition, we get a boost for the vocational schools – both to recognise the skills they provide, and to make it clear how important they are to meet our need for labour in the years to come. We talk too much about the theories and too little about the practical subjects – despite the fact that innovation is just as likely to happen within the practical subjects as at the desk. An important point of agreement from Jeløya was that the government was going to implement a quality promise in the vocational schools and assimilate post-secondary students with other students. This bill makes the vocational schools become a higher vocational education. Students receive the same rights as students at universities and colleges, as they are entitled to family leave and practical arrangements. Professional schools should also have the right to relate to a student relationship, but no obligation – we believe it must be up to the individual school. The student ombudsman scheme will also be extended to the subject schools, but it is done in a separate race and presented to the Stortinget in spring 2019. Higher status implies higher recording requirements. Vocational education shall not be an alternative to secondary education; it shall be of a level above. Therefore, the basis of exposure is very important. Students must have sufficient professional background to pursue a higher vocational education. The requirement has therefore been completed in higher education or equivalent real competence. For admissions based on real competence, the age limit shall be 23 years. Derogations from the age limit may be granted for very talented applicants for technical and vocational education. It's a clever, but very important exception. The introduction of a nationally coordinated admission also implies a profession for specialised schools. The system is best placed to involve both public and private vocational schools in it, but taking into account small and specialised vocational education programmes, private ones, with short courses and continuous admissions throughout the year, allows private vocational schools to choose to stand outside the national admission, as is the case with universities in the university and higher education sectors. The change in points from post-secondary credits to study credits is an important part of the post-secondary education commitment. This approach makes it clear that vocational schools are above the level of secondary education and at the same level as higher education. Furthermore, it is important to facilitate internationalisation also for specialised schools. In other countries, ECTS, the European Credit Transfer and Accumulation System, is used to convert the credits internationally, and it is necessary to consider whether Norwegian specialised schools may also be covered by this scheme. I therefore welcome the review of the National Qualifications Framework and an explanation of the changes that vocational schools need to make in their education and quality assurance in order to be eligible for ECTS. Grade designation is important, and I understand why there has been an involvement in this. However, the size is not the right area for determining degrees, either in specialised schools or in the higher education sector. This requires a greater degree of flexibility, and it is therefore more natural for this to be regulated by regulation. This law helps us to get better vocational education, that we raise the status of the vocational schools, that we better meet society's needs for candidates with short, vocational education, and not least that we give even more a good way to a profession.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2167	The new Law on Vocational Education provides a good framework for a vocational training offer at the level of secondary education. Vocational schools represent an important offer that combines sound vocational training with practice and theory. The vocational schools meet a need for skills that a constantly changing working life has, and at the same time create new career paths and opportunities as well as professional letters for those who want to further specialise. We could say that the vocational schools are a well-hidden secret in our school system, an offer that more and more fortunately gets their eyes up for, in a working and business life that sees the value of a competence that can combine practice and theory in a very special way. The Christian People's Party would like to pay tribute to the government for the fact that the bill helps to approach equality of vocational education with higher education and university education. Equal rights for students clearly contribute to the strengthening of vocational education. The fact that the vocational schools now represent a higher professional education is a finding that the vocational schools have taken an important place in our education system that has been empty in the past. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to stress in this bill that one of the leaders for the grant of grants to and from the county councils must equally facilitate both private and public vocational schools. Therefore, the Christian People's Party and the government parties refer to a majority comment on the current budget that funds received by the county for grants to the 14 independent colleges are to be transferred to the respective schools and that is the school's business address which defines the county to which each school belongs. It is important that independent schools are also ensured to operate in a predictable manner in accordance with regional skills needs, regardless of ownership, in such a way that the diversity of supply is well ensured in the future. With regard to the composition of the board of directors, we in the Christian People's Party are concerned that the board of directors of the vocational schools should have members with the background of relevant working or business life, and otherwise that employees and students – of course – should be represented with one member each, as it is in the boards of higher education and universities, where the board has seven members in total. However, we agree with the majority in the Committee that an assessment should be made of the need to appoint an equal number of alternates. In addition to providing students and staff with personal alternates, it should be possible to create a shorter list of items, where one ensures at least one alternate with competence from work or business. With regard to admission, in the view of the Christian People's Party, there should be flexibility for specialised schools as regards participation in the national coordination of admission, as is also the case for private universities. I think that most people will feel that it is an advantage to participate in national coordination, but it should be possible to choose another solution if you feel that it is useful. The age limit for admission has been subject to a certain interest. In the view of the Christian People's Party, it is important that in special cases admissions can be made based on real-time assessments for applicants up to 19 years. This is particularly true in the field of art. The question that we in the Christian People's Party have received in most cases concerning the law on vocational education is the study score system and the degree score to which one has received in a vocational school is to be converted into ECTS. In order to ensure adequate mobility of the education system, it is important that the preferred conversion system can also qualify for the scope of the European ECTS rules. We therefore have clear expectations from the Christian People's Party that the assessments that are now being made by the National Qualifications Framework will take this into account. The introduction of degrees in vocational schools gives an important signal to the labour market as to the type of education that it has taken. As is the case in the higher education sector, it is natural, as the Christian People's Party sees it, that the same is true with degrees in vocational education. Finally, a unanimous decision was taken by the government to return to Stortinget with proposals for a statutory right to a student representative for all students at universities and colleges. It's important that we get that system in place for the colleges as well. An independent representative will secure students' rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2190	I would like to start by thanking the Committee for a good job and a good result. Today, accumulation and government contribute to the further development of vocational education. We're raising the status of colleges. The government will continue to facilitate the establishment and continuation of attractive quality and professional vocational education. Vocational training is now to be referred to as higher vocational education. The proposal provides a good framework for the management and management of education and strengthens the rights of post-school students. Our aim is to strengthen vocational training in general and vocational training in particular. We need professional and professional specialists. Studies show that there is a great need for professionals in Norway in the future. Only the Oslo companies alone need 8,500 new employees, and the group that is most in need is professionals. The announcement of the downfall Professionals for the future contained 48 measures. The follow-up to these measures is now well under way. OsloMet – the major city university, has been commissioned to identify the competence and competence needs of the vocational school teachers. The results will be presented at the end of May, and this will provide a good basis for assessing further measures to strengthen vocational education and training. The government's commitment to the profession has led to a greater focus on the importance of vocational education and training. It might look as if the bet has been bearing fruit. This year, the number of candidates in public vocational schools has increased by more than 10 pst. At the Inland School of Trade, the search has almost doubled. This is the number of applicants we hadn't even dared to dream about. It is particularly gratifying that this occurs even before vocational education becomes visible as an equivalent and real alternative to higher education. We are now legislating that vocational education is called higher vocational education. Vocational education shall be at the level of secondary education. The general rule on the professional basis for applying for admission to higher education is completed, as is the case for admission to universities and higher education institutions. We have been engaged in making higher vocational education equivalent to other higher education, but at the same time maintain the good specificity that characterises the vocational schools, among others. by being close to the labour market and being able to adapt rapidly to changing skills needs in society. New rules have been proposed for the management and organisation of specialised schools. All Boards shall have members from both students, employees and local employment and business. This will strengthen governments and create room for good dialogue with those who demand education. It is also proposed that all specialised schools should have a principal. In addition, new technical provisions are proposed in the proposal. Vocational school credits are changed to study credits, and there is a new term for study burden and learning outcomes. This has strong support in the sector and will help increase the recognition of studies. Furthermore, it is proposed that in exceptional cases the Ministry may approve three-year vocational education. I would like to stress that the government is committed to facilitating internationalisation. The Regulation on training aid has been amended so that post-secondary students can also receive support for exchanges abroad in line with university and university students. As regards the use of ECTS, this is related to the quality assurance criteria and the qualification framework applicable to the Bologna cooperation. In order to meet the criteria, it is necessary to change the requirements for accreditation, quality assurance and the learning outcomes of the vocational training courses. This is something we will look at in the review of the National Qualifications Framework. I am pleased that the Trade School Council has come up with a unanimous proposal on grade title. I also note that the way we want to set the grade title has created a lot of commitment. The government believes that the regulation of titles creates a more flexible system and gives as good a grade title as law enforcement, and the ministry will follow this up quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2218	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2223	Several have mentioned with the Workers' Party in the context of the revised national budget that the government proposes to reduce cap. 241 item 21 with 7.1 million. kr. This item is used to follow up a number of important measures from the vocational school notification adopted last year by the Stortinget, among others. joint diploma portal, Coordinate admissions, competence mapping, study barometers and funds for maritime subjects. These are measures to which the Storting has joined and asked the government to follow up. Then is my question to the Council of State: how will he explain this cut, and what consequences does the government think it will have when this is implemented? In concrete terms, can this mean that actions currently financed under this heading will be pushed out in time?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2228	It is true that the government parties and the Christian People's Party have strengthened the vocational schools through the 2018 budget. It is an important investment and it should contribute to increased quality. Then there are some funds that will not be used in 2018, and therefore we want to re-prioritise these to other measures in the vocational school sector. In other words, there is no money taken out of the technical school sector, but there are just about seven million. kr moved within the sector. This means that funds that will not be used will now be used for vocational education.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2233	The Council of State was at the heart of an increase in the number of study applications to the colleges, and it is very happy. It has increased quite sharply from 2014 to, among others, 2018, where we're getting closer to 6,800. This will also contribute to increased costs related, inter alia, to: the areas referred to in my first question. But the question is how one then will follow up on this in the future. We know that in the 2017 election campaign it was suggested that one should find solutions with more than 600 places to study. Why is the Council of State so reluctant to give more opportunities to take vocational education? And why is this not desirable, including: in the context of the case, to obtain a necessary stepping-up plan to ensure that applicants now apply for a place of study, a good funding and a place of study in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2238	I cannot fully understand how the representative has discovered any reluctance at the Council of State. If that's what we've been contributing to the last four–five years, it's just lifting the professions. And I am delighted that very much now is going in the right direction in the professional field, by the fact that there are more who complete and more who exist, in the case of fewer dropouts and more apprenticeships, and by the fact that we are now also strengthening and lifting the vocational schools. Then it is not common to make a plan for how many educational places to go in the future; it is something that is assessed in each budget. But we're betting in colleges, because they're an important part of our education system. They're close to business, and when the government is about to implement a reform, to learn all of their lives, to reform their skills, I think the vocational schools will have a strengthened role in the future, because it's not just about training, but also about continuing education.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2245	It is very important that study scores are introduced. But you can ask yourself, what are the values of the credits introduced if they are not the same as at universities and colleges. After all, there are still some own vocational school credits, without ensuring seamless transitions to other higher education. The competence of these specialised schools is still not valued as they should, in the eyes of the Centre Party. Does the Council of State still believe that there is a lesser-rated education than other higher education? Where appropriate, when will vocational schools be fully equalised with other higher education? Or is this simply a rematch in giving vocational schools full recognition?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2250	I'm a little surprised by the word "rematch". I would rather be glad that the government and opposition in Stortinget are now working together to raise the vocational schools. Now we have many building blocks in place, and we have higher ambitions for the vocational schools in the years to come. I think they're equivalent to universities and colleges, and the colleges, which I've been in, will play a very important role in the skills reform that we're going to carry out with learning all my life. But it's also so that we can't decide on everything. It is also about the requirements and qualifications that are met. That is why we in the Proposition, as well as the government parties in the notes, point forward in the work to be done in the review of the National Qualifications Framework, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2255	Thanks for the answer. The government has clearly understood the desire and the need for students to receive credits, but they nevertheless propose to receive support from the Stortinget for a different system from that of universities and colleges. The majority would like the review of the higher education qualification framework to be submitted before the possible use of ECTS. Then I wonder when and how quickly this assessment is made, and what thoughts the Council of State might have for the vocational schools' place in the NKR.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2260	In ECTS?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2266	In the qualification framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2271	We will launch the review of the National Qualifications Framework soon. There's something the ministry is working on these days. We too are impatient, but we're concerned that we do things in the right order, and that we get good investigations before we finalize decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2276	A majority have argued that today's vocational school credits are to be replaced by study credits. However, it is not clear whether the study credits should be linked to ECTS. The Ministry has previously indicated that the ECTS connection is not up to date, but that it is ECVET to be considered. ECVET is not used and is used in secondary education. As I said in my main post, the countries of Europe with a well-developed college level use ECTS exclusively to convert their study credits internationally. Does the Council have any idea of how he will facilitate internationalisation and conversion of study credits internationally, and when does the Minister realize that this can be in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2283	I listened carefully to the comments of the representative, and had the representative listened to me just as carefully, she would hear that the question I answered in the post, and I have also answered it now in the reply chord exchange. The point is that ECTS is related to the quality assurance criteria and the qualification framework, and that is why we want to have a review of the national qualification framework. I have notified that we will get started quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2288	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2295	Vocational schools have suffered for a long time from a slightly unclear location and weak status in the education system. This has been working for a long time to correct this, and we are going to continue our efforts to further develop this important educational team. Knowledge and good organization are a prerequisite for that. During the Stoltenberg II government, we received both a state report for the vocational schools and the candidate surveys. The Trade School Committee was set up, the Norwegian Trade School Student Organisation and the National Trade School Council were established. The new Law on Higher Vocational Education contributes to strengthening in important areas. I would like to mention in particular study credits, placement as a higher professional education and link to student relationships. But the colleges are not fully developed with this. The needs of society for people with vocational education skills are high and will grow. At the same time, we know that high school dropout is too big. It is therefore important that government parties take responsibility both for strengthening and further developing vocational and higher vocational education and for expanding educational capacity. The council said we're taking the colleges one step further today. We do, but we also have to make sure that the government doesn't take them a step back. First of all, in the light of the adoption of a law on higher vocational education, it is strange that the government simply continues the ambiguous and unclear position of the vocational schools and places them under the Council of State for kindergartens, basic education and integration. This led, for example, to: the fact that the vocational school students were almost forgotten when the government parties turned around and were still in favour of student representatives in higher education. The labour market needs more vocational education. The working party takes this seriously and proposes to invest in new places of study in an obliging escalation plan. The government leaves it alone. The Labour Party has asked the Ministry of Finance about the cut in RNB that Asphjell had in mind, where an error in calculating the basic grant was aged in the way that was outlined. The Council of State is very careful to ensure that the committee representatives listen to his comments, and we have now, after the input of the Council of State, noted that he promises that the vocational schools will retain these funds. The working party is concerned that important development measures are not being put on hold as a result of slightly strange budgetary adjustments. The government is simply asked to ensure that the vocational school students are treated in the same way. In summary, the Labour Party has high ambitions for the vocational schools in the future, both quantitatively and qualitatively. We're going to keep pressing to give the college students the status they deserve.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2318	I am proud that this government has made it its fan business to raise professional and vocational education. Then it becomes a little sad that the opposition is looking with light and light to find negative things – when we are now starting with the post-school lift. Increasing the number of places of study seems to be the main skill of the opposition, despite the fact that, at the 2017 admission, there were many vacancies available at the vocational schools in the country. The reality is that the amount allocated per study place is far from covering the cost of teaching. It does not cover infrastructure, not quality raising measures, nor does it give students better rights. In the right, we're concerned with the whole thing. The aim of the new vocational school law is to improve the quality of vocational education. It will contribute to the increased status of vocational education and students. We are concerned with strengthening the vocational schools in general. Strengthening student rights is also an important part of this work. We legislate for the students to establish their own student bodies, give students the right to representation in the governing body, give them the right to enroll in student relations and legalize the right to maternity leave. Many specialised schools need new infrastructure to support their development and to provide relevant education to their students. Vocational training shall be well suited to meeting and ensuring the needs of industry for up-to-date and specialised competence. We'll strengthen the colleges by over 70 million. kr in 2018. That's $35 million. kr in development funds for the vocational schools this year. The aim of these means is to improve the quality of vocational education and training and the consistency between the provision of education and the skills required by the labour market. 638 new places of study are also allocated to the post-secondary schools in 2018. The new study places shall be stepped up over two years. From 2020 onwards, a total of 1,276 new places of study will be created in the vocational schools. In the case of titles at the technical schools, we support the assessments of the working group. But the definition of grade titles does not belong in the legal text. Qualifications for the university and higher education sectors are laid down in regulations, and this is a system that is far more flexible than the definition of degrees in the law itself. It is therefore appropriate to also lay down the title of the post-secondary school in a regulation and to implement it as soon as possible. With the adoption of the Law on Higher Vocational Education here today, we are taking a long step forward in raising the vocational education sector, which is such an important supplier of labour to industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2331	I think both the position and the opposition have been very balanced in this debate so far. In my report, I boasted that the committee has written very well together in most areas. Then it shouldn't be that if someone points out any defects, you're negative. What we want is to help make this law even better. That was at least my starting point here. At the same time, we see that the funding of increased investment in vocational schools will be important in the future in order to get more people to apply for the places of study and to wish for themselves in these areas. The Council of State points out that they are not reluctant to have a stepping-up plan, but we note that the government parties are voting against our proposal for a stepping-up plan, linked to creating predictability such as both the entire vocational school environment, business demand and NHO demand. It's not about being negative, but about looking at how we're going to create predictability for this area. The Labour Party and SV have noted that the government defines vocational education in the law as ‘higher vocational education’. We think that's good, and that's why we think it's important, as was also pointed out by the Right, that we've now written together and changed, among other things. the title of the law, after being recorded from an overall professional environment, that this should be better recorded and given the status it should have. The Labour Party also believes that there should be a national, common rule for admission to vocational schools and a nationally coordinated admission where participation is not voluntary but an obligation. This will help to increase the visibility, higher quality of admission, better statistics, knowledge and the ability to analyse applications and recording results. This will help to raise the status of the future, such as multiple requests. So back to this with a common age limit for admission: the Committee has now gathered in 23 years, but we have also received many feedback on art subjects and a lower age limit of 21 years. Among other things, the SV’s representative pointed out that within universities and colleges there are lower admission requirements than would be in colleges, and we think that is unreasonable. That's why we think this is something that should be changed and looked at, so that there are opportunities for those who have relevant real skills to apply to the vocational schools by the year they are 19 years old. The working party has also noted that some hearing bodies believe that some parts of vocational school education should be able to be placed at level 6. We think the government should come back to it and look at how it can be fulfilled, because I think it's important to make sure that those who study in this area can be equated with others. We've also noticed what happened to the ECTS bit. We hope that the government will come back to this to ensure that education and training can be equalised in an increasingly internationalised labour market, and not least for the recognition of education across European countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2346	This is really an educational course and a school battle that is close to my heart. That is why it is particularly gratifying that today we find that we are further changing the screw and are receiving this change of pace for higher education. In this way I will call it a joyous day that we are now updating this law and following up the many good decisions we made in the big news about the vocational schools in the previous period, which I was so lucky to be allowed to follow closely. This may be the most important promise for vocational training in very many years, because peak competence is becoming more important as society's progress, change and specialisation increases. Especially in Norway, where we have a high standard of living and, not least, high wages compared to our trading partners and competitors, we must be the most important if we are to compete in this competition, win contracts, and not least create values and secure incomes to bear the welfare state of the time to come. We are now making many important changes to what can be called the Master's course of education, and we are continuing to build up so that higher vocational education through the vocational schools will have a shine and take its rightful and important place in the course of education. We need several masters in addition to masters, and we need them with traditional, higher academic education to be both able and willing to fill in with practical higher education offered by the vocational schools. We need this multi-disciplinary and complex competence to ensure, in the future, that our competitiveness will bring more companies to flag all or part of their production back to Norway. We've already seen more examples of that. The transition between universities, colleges and colleges will be important to facilitate the future, and we are clear on the ambitions in this area. At the same time, we must recognise that there is a lot of work that will remain in the individual educational institution. It ensures the development of a training course that meets the needs of internal professional coherence and thus allows for good transitions between educational institutions and, in particular, training courses. The variety of subjects in the vocational education sector ranges from the size of the various schools and their disciplines. The initiative of the government now takes on development materials and quality in the colleges, becomes central to shaping the school team, which I would really call a rough diamond. I therefore have very great expectations of the various school owners' contribution to raising with us in the future. Today we lift the vocational schools by law and give higher vocational education its well-deserved place in the education system.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2361	Norway needs more people working in a dressup, not just in a dressup. According to the SSB, in 20 years, we'll need 100,000 more skilled workers. That's why it's very good that more people now choose the profession, and that there's a record set of apprenticeships. With the right in government, we are betting on the professions, and now the vocational schools are on their way. The NHO competence survey shows that half of the companies asked need staff with vocational education. That is why I am very pleased that the government is now getting a pass on the law that will make the vocational schools more visible, accessible and attractive. That's why I'm very happy that we're strengthening the student democracies at the colleges, because the best offer is designed with the students on the team. We grant the university students the right to vote in the boards and colleges to be part of a student relationship, so that students can access student housing and other welfare goods. We legislate as a secondary vocational education, as an equivalent alternative to universities and colleges, while increasing by 638 places of study. The short and practical nature of vocational education ensures that we have up-to-date and specialised competence. Not least, education is flexible, which makes it suitable for most people, whether they work daytime or tour. I recently visited one of the leading stars of the vocational schools – the trade school Rogaland. It is among the many who have received funding from the government for better quality, modern equipment and 64 new places of study. All over the country, we see the vocational schools being strengthened. Today is a bit of a historic day, because finally the colleges get what they deserve. The Government and the Christian People's Party carry out the bet of the times on professional subjects. We do that because we know that in the future we need more people who work in a dressup, not just in a dressup.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2373	It is very positive that there are now changes for the colleges. I also think it is positive that there is a consensus on much from the Storting and the Education Committee. It's also positive for the colleges themselves. As the Norwegian School of Education Organisation said to Khrono yesterday, the fact that the vocational schools are now to be referred to as higher vocational education is an important recognition of the vocational schools as the educational pathway. We're happy about that. But the Labour Party believes that the government does not take the step completely out. It is not, as the representative Synnes said, to search with light and light for negative points, but it is to have ambitions for improvement. It is very good that the Stortinget has just had ambitions for improvement, because the Stortinget has improved the bill that came from the Right-wing-Fremskritspartet-Left-government on several points, such as the law title, ETCS, etc. The size has made the law better, and the Workers' Party wants to continue that job. One of the improvements the Labour Party wants is that we don't have to wait to know that Norway needs the skills offered by the vocational schools. Industry, technology and health are among those in need of more skilled workers, which is why it is important to develop further and step up the provision of vocational education. The Labour Party wants a greater proportion of the educational growth in the years ahead to come in the vocational schools. It is then important to make vocational schools visible as an integral part of the education system and as an equivalent alternative to higher education. But it's also necessary, we mean, with a plan for stepping up. And we think it is a clear weakness that although the communication underlines the need for more skilled workers, no concrete plans or measures are proposed to increase educational capacity in line with the needs of the labour and business sectors. For several years, the Labour Party has proposed a stepping-up plan to 1000 new post-secondary education places in our alternative budgets and funds for continuing training of vocational school teachers. It is good that in 2017, there were about 600 seats from the government, but if I were to be a little bit pointed out, I would say that it would just be missing after the government had not proposed a single new post school place since 2013. We believe that there is a need for continued development and expansion of the vocational education sector. In the past, we have made proposals for a stepping-up plan for post-secondary education. It was then only supported by the Center Party and SV, who joined us on those proposals. Today we take up the proposal again and believe that it contributes to greater predictability for the vocational schools, for the students and for the working life that needs and wants these candidates.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2386	I'm a tradesman myself. I took a flyer in the graphic trade, but it's all the way back to 1979, so it's starting to be a few years ago, and I think I've probably dated on my own subject. But we see that today, business demands far more young people taking vocational education, through high school, and not least – after taking it – take higher education through colleges and possibly colleges and universities. The new Ph.D. is a step on the way, but as the Labour Party has pointed out, according to the input we have received in the consultation rounds, there are areas where there are challenges related to the wishes of an overall vocational school environment. That is why I would ask the government to follow up – if it does not become a majority today – all the input that has been made through the debate and through the proposals that are. I think it's a total increase that wants to focus on the need of working life to have well-trained professionals. That's why we also have to help raise that area in a good way, so even more girls and boys want to get into this. As I said, there are a lot of people who can talk in a cathedral or from this pulpit, but there are always very few people who can build new schools, kindergartens, etc. That's why we need a comprehensive political environment that wants to promise this, which makes young people take education, but also take higher education. And when we see that the NHO competence barometer calls for even more, we know that here there will be jobs in the future that will ensure continued growth in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2395	I think, like many others here, that it is very good that there is so much cross-political consensus in this matter. I agree with the representative, Asphjell, that then we may not have to blow up the things we do not fully agree on, because basically we do agree. I wonder, then, that some people are almost trying to construct a disagreement, and it may seem as if you would like to give other representatives an opinion you don't have. One thing I think about then is the recording requirements. I think all the representatives who have been on the platform here today have clarified how important it is that this is defined as a higher professional education. This means that it should be equated with the university and higher education sectors, and then, of course, it is necessary that we have professional admission requirements at the bottom. Nor is it correct, as it is said here, that there should not now be an exception for artistic education – a narrow exception, but as the representative Melbye had in mind, an important exception. It is not the case that admission requirements for the vocational education sector become more stringent than those for the higher education sector. It also provides for the types of training which may be exempted from the 23-year ordinary real-time limit of competence. This is one of the examples I'm thinking about. Then I find it strange that so many representatives from the Workers' Party are talking about not including an escalation plan in this bill. Firstly, it is a budgetary question and not a legal one. Secondly, it is precisely this that has been added to the post-secondary education bill already. There were 630 new study places on the table in 2018 and an escalation plan has been adopted up to 2020 where this will more than double. As has been pointed out, it is not usually that you set a stepping-up plan for many years to come, but you look at the needs as time passes. I also find it strange that one representative of the Workers' Party says to Khrono, the University's website, that now it is absolutely necessary that we give priority to new places of study in the university and higher education sectors, because there are many applicants who do not have a place. So another representative of the Free Trade Movement, who is more targeted at the professional and vocational education sector, says that now the jam has given me enough to the university and higher education sector, so now we have to give priority to the vocational education sector. I believe that prioritizing everything is not giving priority to anything. We take responsibility and look at the needs, and now we have prioritised the vocational education sector high. I'm very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2406	Martin Henriksen has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2411	I thought I might as well take a brief comment, because it does not require a long post to respond to the comments of the representative Kristensen. What I want to say is that there is no contradiction between investing in vocational schools, stepping up vocational schools, and investing in several places of study. We know that there is a great need both for more graduate students and for too many candidates in different higher education institutions. We are very pleased that, in the 2017 election year, several post-secondary education places came from the government, but they have shown very passiveness in increasing the number of higher education places. In the last five years, new places of study have hardly arrived. Fortunately, budget comparisons have resulted in more places of study, among other things. in the field of ICT. But there needs to be a bet on both, and for us it's important to say that more of the growth has to come within colleges, because there's a great need, and we know that it's the work that business demands very much.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2418	I will briefly acknowledge the constructive contribution made to the case rapporteur. I am pleased with the strong commitment that is both for the professions and for the higher professional education. This is an important commitment. This is not the last time we debate these questions. I take with me the recordings that have come both in the setting and in this debate. Then we come back to the budget for the autumn to discuss the number of places of study. It's not natural for us to discuss the number of study places in a bill. It's a discussion that comes into the budget for the autumn. But this is a good day for the professionals. I had the pleasure of opening up the centre of professional competence at OsloMet on Kjeller yesterday – a great commitment to what is now happening. There will be more research. There will be an even closer contact with the social partners and the social partners, and that means that there are now many forces moving in the same direction to raise the professions for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2425	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2441	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2450	Let me first thank the Committee for good cooperation in this matter, first of all on behalf of my alternate, as I myself did not get into the matter until the delivery meeting. This is at least one thing where the committee is essentially united, so I expect that it has been a very good collaboration in advance. I would then like to point out that there is a small editorial error in the comments in the settings, but it will be corrected after this treatment. The proposition under consideration concerns several rather different proposals, but the concreteisation of the early efforts towards the youngest children is the most central, and I therefore want to spend the most time on it. With this proposition, the government has proposed to introduce an obligation for the school to provide intensive training quickly to students between 1 and 4. steps that are at risk of being followed by reading, writing or billing. The background to the proposal is to ensure that more students who need it are caught early and receive the training they need. All students are different, and some students need more intensive learning in reading, writing and billing in the first years of school. The legal obligation to provide intensive training will make clear the school's responsibility for early action towards students who are struggling. The Committee has noted that the Education Association fears that symptoms are being addressed rather than the causes of student fatigue, but this is a concern for which there is no basis. There are complex reasons why students are struggling, and therefore the proposition also makes it possible to strengthen the multidisciplinary follow-up of students. However, this is not contrary to a reinforced professional effort towards students. The proposition does not intend to add to the testing of students, as some fear, nor more bureaucracy, because there is no need for a comprehensive procedure or a single decision to be taken, as is the case with special education. The teacher is also the school’s main resource in this work, and the teacher is the most appropriate person to identify students who need intensive training so that action can be taken quickly. A happy positive effect of this proposal may be that the need for special education is reduced by providing more students with the support they need, faster and at a much earlier stage. The key to our success at early school is — and so much so at school — with the teachers. Therefore, ensuring that all students have access to good and qualified teachers who see their needs and abilities to adapt their training to it is essential. A key prerequisite for this proposal is therefore the government's strong and broad commitment to continuing training and strengthening teachers. It's also important that we have enough teachers, so that students are caught up and followed up quickly and well, and there's also something government puts heavily on. The Committee has taken note of the concerns of the Federation of Education that resources can be moved from the earliest stages to the youngest. It is therefore important to stress that the legislative proposal does not allow school owners to dispose of resources contrary to other legislation. This is a prerequisite for the legislative proposal. Another important change proposed by the government with this proposition is that the school should be obliged to cooperate with relevant municipal services on the assessment and follow-up of children and young people with health, personal, social or emotional problems. Composite problems have to be faced with complex actions. To put it simply, children who are well-being have much better prerequisites for learning. In many places, cooperation works well already today, while elsewhere there is a need to strengthen cooperation. This duty of cooperation shall apply both in specific cases for individual and at system level. I am pleased that an overall committee is joining this proposal. 2018 is the year of the professions, and the next legislative proposal is about professional subjects. We need more professionals in the coming years, and it is therefore important that measures make it more attractive for more professionals. There is a broad consensus on the need to facilitate more than one professional letter. The government’s proposal intends to motivate more adults to take a letter of formal notice, by retaining paid work and receiving training during working hours. It is today too demanding to take a professional letter at the same time as you are at work, and the government will do something about this in this proposal. Finally, we in the Left are very pleased that the Committee supports the proposal in this proposition to amend the Law of Higher Education so that there is an opportunity to establish a national college at Svalbard. This bill originates from a representative proposal from the Left from the previous period, which also received unanimous support from the Stortinget, and I am very pleased that, in line with the intentions of the Svalbard Communication, it has now been set up to create new areas of expertise at Svalbard. Finally, in the proposal, the government announces that one will follow up the Jeløya Declaration on the legalisation of the right to camp school residence, and the Committee welcomes the fact that a legislative proposal is being submitted for consultation with a view to its entry into force in the autumn of 2019. This is a very important breakthrough for the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2486	For the Workers' Party, it is essential that all students receive the help they need in order to experience mastering and good learning from the first year of school, rather than that they only get help after several years of either learning difficulties or failure. Early effort is important because it can contribute to: better mastering, learning and well-being at school for students that more than one person undertakes secondary education; that the school is better able to pass on good opportunities to all students in life That is why I am pleased that the government is finally proposing systematic use of early work in Norwegian school in the form of intensive training. The Labour Party has proposed this – with our reading, writing and calculation guarantee – six times in the last years, but has been voted down by the Progress Party – Right-wing Government every time. The proposals we are considering today are good. No one is against them; we are unanimous here today. But when the bill came, I was a little disappointed. When the government has taken such a good time to make something about early efforts, I think this is a little ambitious. When we know what we know about the challenges in school, when we know what we know about the need for more early action, and with all the parties we've heard from this government on the theme, we were many who expected more now. I must say that I agree with the Education Association, which, in its opinion of the hearing, makes it clear that the proposal is of little concern. The lack of ambition in this matter, I believe, is clear evidence that the Progress Party and the Right have no ambitions in this area. As I said, the new legislative text on compulsory intensive training is good. However, today’s training law also specifies that municipalities should provide early support to students. Today's section 1-3 on adapted training and early work already states, among other things. the adaptation of training to individual student skills and prerequisites, and the provision of local authorities with a particularly high level of learning in Norwegian, Sami and mathematics and, in particular, targeting students with poor reading and accounting skills. So it's fine with a clarification in the law, but as the government itself writes in the bill, a change in the law itself will not automatically lead to the desired result. That's why I think it's a little ambitious that the government doesn't say anything about what they're going to do to achieve the desired results. I expect the Council of State will once again say that he leaves this to the municipalities. I think he should also take responsibility for making more tools and resources for early work available to the schools and municipalities. When the government has spent almost five years in this work, I would have hoped they now had more than a change in the details of the law. No matter how much we believe in the opposition the proposal should have been more ambitious, it is the Council of State that lists its proposal. And as I said, the adjustments that we are adopting today, we are not against. It is also positive that the Stortinget today has an obligation for more multi-disciplinary cooperation, that we implement the Stortinget's decision on professional letters of employment in the form of law, and that one facilitates a folk high school in Svalbard and signals on the statutory right to camp school stays. The decisions are, as I said, good, but we would like there to be so much more. I take up our proposal on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2515	The representative Torstein Tvedt Solberg has thus taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2520	One of the most important grips of the Christian People's Party, Left and Right carried out in the Knowledge Lift, was the introduction of basic skills. That's the tools that all students need if they're to master other subjects in school and get opportunities for the rest of their lives. Now we see that we have more of a culture of learning in schools. We see that Norwegian school is going in the right direction. PIRLS 2016 showed that Norwegian fourth and fifth grades read much better than before, in particular children with a minority background. The youngest children also do better in accounting and natural sciences. At the same time, we know that there are still too many students who have to wait a long time for them to adapt to follow-up. They risk falling from early school and stopped raising their hands. Therefore, the proposal on compulsory school activity is an important step. All students shall receive intensive follow-up if they risk falling from early reading, writing and billing. In contrast to what the representative Fagerås writes in the setting, no further national screening tests or permanent level-sharing shall be introduced. It is the school and teachers who decide for themselves how to organise and implement the intensive follow-up. It shall be short-term, low-bureaucratic and targeted for those students who need a little extra follow-up before they are able to follow regular education. Research shows, for example: that small group education in shorter periods for low-skilled students can have a very positive effect. But then I'm quite confused, as usual, about what the Workers' Party now means in the discussion of early efforts. The working party went to the choice of a reading, writing and calculating guarantee for the youngest students. Jonas Gahr Stør said to Evening Post 14 September 2016: ‘Students who are interested in reading, writing and calculating when finished with 2nd class shall be entitled to special follow-up.’ It was a guarantee. Today, the Workers' Party and the Centre propose that the obligation of intensive follow-up should apply in all disciplines and at all stages – not particularly reading, writing and billing, because it would be ‘managing at the expense of the other subjects’, as stated in the comments. I agree that all subjects are important and that no students should be left in any subject, but today the principle of early action is regulated by the law of 1–4. class because this is where the basis for further learning is in all subjects. Basic skills shall be cross-disciplinary. If we're going to level out social differences in school, we actually have to be willing to prioritize the most important thing early in school. There is no guarantee if you guarantee everything. When you give priority to everything, you don't really give priority to anything. And I can only understand that the Workers' Party now takes a very clear step to the left and leaves the focus on early efforts and a read, write and calculate guarantee. This is contrary to what we know is important to balance social differences, and what has led to better reading and billing results in recent years. It is true that change in the law itself will not lead to better early efforts, because unlike the representative Tvedt Solberg, I do not have so much faith in the policies of big business and the excellence of the law. I believe that the law is binding, but that the follow-up takes place in the schools and municipalities. Therefore, this obligation must be seen in the context of the bulk of the population's contribution to the teacher-specialist system, continuing training and proposals for a further 1.4 billion. kr i 2018 to several qualified teachers. The proposal must also be seen in the context of what we will also adopt today, namely that schools should have a duty to cooperate with municipal services when students are struggling with other problems – health, personal or emotional. The goal is to eliminate any wait-and-see attitude in school. We're going to build a team around the student. Today we will also examine and adopt the government's proposal for a letter of formal notice on the job. In the years ahead, we're going to lack tens of thousands of skilled workers. At the same time, the demand for unskilled workers will fall. Then it is absolutely essential that we give people more ways into working life to become a skilled worker. I am very pleased that the social partners want to welcome this arrangement, and that the commitment has been so great to strengthen the opportunities that people have to gain professional competence and professional security. Taking a letter is good for the individual, and it's good for society.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2540	As the rapporteur went on to say, this is a proposition that is a little bit different. I want to start by talking about the proposal to introduce an obligation for the school to provide suitable intensive training quickly for 1-4 students. steps that are at risk of being followed by reading, writing and billing. The proposal clarifies the school’s 1–4 early school effort obligation. Steps, and we know that it is economically and humanly profitable to provide extra help for reading and writing to students who are struggling in early childhood rather than waiting until their teens. Early efforts can capture this, and money spent on early efforts is an investment we can get back in 20 years in terms of reduced daily allowances, labour market measures and unemployment benefits. The main single reason for school dropouts is poor professional skills in primary school, and that is where the basis for learning and development is laid. Research in this area shows that early reading efforts can contribute to 80 pst. by students with difficulty in reading and writing, enter into good development if the effort is put into 1st or 2nd grade. If we wait until grade 3, the share drops to 50 pst, and with measures in grade 5 or later, it's only 10-15 pst. the chance that students will achieve a normal reading skills. Intensive training is part of the regular adapted training that the school is obliged to provide to all students, but is characterised by short-term school effort, whether in terms of reading, writing or billing, for students who need it. The most important thing is first of all a good motto, and we in the Progress Party are pleased with this priority. The most important thing in schools is that students learn basics of reading, writing and billing. It is those who must be given priority. If you don't master base, you don't get anywhere. The party will also stress that it is the school that determines the content and organisation of intensive training within the framework of the law. It is important that teachers are given the necessary space for action to provide training adapted to the development of each individual student. We in the Progress Party have great confidence in each school manager and teacher and therefore believe that they must have the greatest freedom to design school everyday life and education as they think it is best. Then it is a little surprising to hear the representative Tvedt Solberg, who talks about him being disappointed that we are leaving this responsibility to the municipalities, and he calls for a more active intervention by the council and the council of state in the early effort issue – while we are working in parallel with a trust reform that is just about moving power and decisions down to each school leader and teacher. When it comes to taking a professional letter at work, it is very important for me to have a policy that makes it as much as possible to become a self-held, active citizen. I am a supporter of flexible solutions that facilitate the ability of ordinary workers, preferably drop-off students from high school who have been in the labour market for many years, to demonstrate the skills they have acquired after all. I am therefore pleased with the scheme of professional letters for the job as an alternative route to a letter of formal and other letters. The proposal is based on experiments and will allow for the examination of the subject on the basis of all-round practice, real-time competence assessment and training in ordinary work. The aim is to motivate more adults to take professional letters to retain paid work and to receive training in working time, but this is done flexibly and is also adapted to the life situation of people in the establishment phase, with loans and children. Norway is increasingly becoming a community of competences. Rapid and increasing changes in working life mean that many workers need new knowledge and skills. We must therefore facilitate lifelong learning both for those outside the labour market and for those in the labour market. Both enterprises and public enterprises depend on a competent workforce to meet tomorrow’s challenges. Then we must have an overall commitment in both basic, vocational and higher education. This is well under way by the government, and we in the Progress Party must ensure further investment in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2557	In this case, we make several important changes. Multi-disciplinary cooperation, professional letter at work, vocational school law at Svalbard and law enforcement of camp schools are good things, as others have mentioned. As the debate and the vote show, there is a great deal of consensus in the Committee on the various proposals. However, there is one exception – the proposal for a statutory obligation to provide intensive training. This is where the debate deserves to be nuanced. There is no political disagreement about the importance of early action. The benefits of early learning challenges, before they get too much impact and create major challenges beyond the learning cycle, are great. The centre party believes that all students throughout the country must receive high-quality training within the framework of the common school. The government announced this proposal in the paper on apprenticeship. The measure was then presented by the Prime Minister and the then Council of State as a new and revolutionary proposal. However, the obligation to take action is by no means new. Municipalities already have an obligation to make early efforts. It was underlined in a regulation introduced by the red-green government. The fact that the government is now going to legislate intensive training is fine, but in practice there is no difference. The legislative proposal is therefore strictly superfluous. At the same time, we know that there are students who, for various reasons, do not get the follow-up they need when they need it. Therefore, it is not a law of intensive training that such the Centre Party opposes. The central party is opposed to the provision of the obligation of follow-up contained in the proposal, which we believe is a narrowing of the school's obligations and the student's right to early action. Early efforts should not be limited to the first few years. The obligation to intensive training must therefore apply early after a student experiences challenges, regardless of the year stage in which the student goes. Although the follow-up during the first four years of school is particularly important to establish a solid foundation for further learning, the Centre Party believes that there must be the need to control – not the age of the student. When the representative from the Right says that this is a matter of priority, I ask, is the course run if a student falls off and pursues professionally even after the fourth step? As can be seen from the comments and suggestions, the Central Party responds that the obligation is limited to only three disciplines: reading, writing and billing. By limiting the obligation to apply only to the core elements of the basic subjects of Norwegian and mathematics, the Centerpartie believes that the proposal will further govern at the expense of the other subjects and contrasts with the school's overall tasks of competence and society. Unlike the Right Party, the Center Party believes that there is culture for learning even outside the basic subjects. What about those who are struggling in English? What about those who are struggling and have become hung over in the natural sciences? Motivation and mastering in other subjects also have a value. Of course, we agree that reading, writing and billing are important basic skills that form the basis for learning in subjects other than math and Norwegian. At the same time, however, this proposal incorporates the range of measures that help to narrow the knowledge and the school's overall mandate. This is the way to provide additional food for the measurement and control tyrant. Students are different, and they learn and evolve at different rates. Although the Centre Party supports a law-enforcement – albeit with a different device – the Centre Party would strongly warn against the natural variation in maturation being made to something abnormal and the introduction of standardised measures to fulfil the legal obligation to act. As in everything else, prevention is also better here than repairing with intensive measures. The centre party believes that the most important thing for the students is to be met with the confidence of professionally competent teachers with time to follow-up of each student and with professional freedom to conduct the teaching in line with their professional judgement and commitment to the profession. The proposal that the Central Party and the Workers' Party have in the setting has already been taken up, and I hope Stortinget will consider it another time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2580	On three occasions I have had the amazing and great task of accepting new first-class ratings. No one comes to school and is more educational than the first-graders. No one comes to school and is more crowded with enthusiasm, and no one beats his teacher more than the first-graders. It's great to be a first-class teacher. But at the same time, I have to say that a greater task with more responsibility is few in our society that are taking on. How can we maintain this zeal and motivation as far as possible? How do you manage to make sure that the smallest children in school can learn at their own pace, and that everyone gets training adapted to their level, their age and development in a class of maybe 24 students? Today, there is a great deal of consensus that all students will receive the help they need to experience mastering and good learning from the first year of school, rather than getting help only after a few years of failure and learning difficulties, and that early efforts will contribute to better mastering, learning, well-being, and not least to more people completing higher education, and thus to the success of the school in passing on good opportunities in life to all students. But when the government now promotes a proposal to introduce an obligation to intensive training for students who are at risk of getting hung up in reading, writing or billing, the good old teacher in me becomes skeptical. I am sincerely concerned that the government's proposal for intensive training obligations leads to excessive use of testing and measurement, increased performance pressures and the exclusion of more students – that is, the opposite of what the government wants to achieve. In a system where the school should be able to demonstrate that such an obligation is being fulfilled, this could also lead to further red tape that steals the time that teachers could spend on students. I must also say that I do not trust the representative Tybring-Gjedde from the right target and test party who says this should happen without bureaucracy. I want to highlight the importance of fenced up an inclusive common school that gives all children the opportunity to learn, succeed and thrive. The legislation in force guarantees children rights and gives them a responsibility if, for various reasons, the student has learning difficulties or otherwise does not benefit from regular education. The school is also obliged to make early efforts. The size has given the schools a big job, and it is probably not difficult to understand how demanding this can be when a teacher should be able to see and follow up each student in a large student group. The national standard for increasing teacher density, which ensures a maximum of 15 pupils per teacher between 1 and 4. steps and a maximum of 20 students aged 5 to 10. Steps at each school have been an important case for SV for a long time and have now been finally adopted by the Storting. Research shows that in the case of social, emotional and cognitive development, there can be a first-class tension of two years between children. It represents a difference in maturity from five years to six years when we expect that the physical age of the students can separate a whole year from whether they were born in January or December. Such variation clearly poses educational challenges and also demonstrates that rigid legal requirements and standardised assessment systems can contribute to a far too narrow understanding of the normal development of a child. SV believes that the government undermines the goal of an inclusive common school with its bill, and it testifies to a low level of understanding of the challenges that schools face. Instead, the government should strengthen the school's economic and professional space for action. Teachers need support for their demanding tasks, and schools need to be given better framework conditions so that children can receive good and organized education, preferably within the framework of the ordinary learning community.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2597	Early efforts are important to ensure that we give all children a good meeting with the school, and that all children experience being seen and given the opportunity to master school. Unfortunately, there are too many cases in which we later see that many challenges could have been avoided if the help had come earlier. I am therefore pleased that over the last few years, we have seen a strong increase in school policy commitment to facilitate early action, and that recognition of the fact that it is better to provide good help early than having to deploy comprehensive measures late in school has increased considerably. This is also the background that Christian People's Party has fought over many years to get more teachers to the youngest students. The teacher is the school's most important resource. Several teachers contribute to ensuring that all students are seen, met in a good way and are given the opportunity to adapt training to their needs. The teachers’ code now being introduced is therefore very important to ensure early intervention. Christian People's Party supports the government's proposals in Prop. 52 L, but it has been important for us in our work on this matter to ensure that the proposal does not lead to a unilateral focus on skills in reading, writing and billing and increased need for the monitoring and testing of the youngest students. The school will see the whole student, and all students will meet teachers and a school that encourages them, and that gives them confidence and confidence. As the Education Association points out in its consultation response, there are often complex reasons why students are struggling at school. Therefore, it is important that the school continues to see the whole student, and not one-sidedly focuses on skills in these subjects. The obligation to institute intensive training shall apply to steps 1 to 4. This is important for early efforts, but as the Committee also emphasises, all children are different and learn at different rates, as well as children learning in different ways. There are few who demand more sit-bys and demands for the younger ones – instead, we feel that parents and teachers are more in demand that the school be more adapted to the way children learn. The fact that children learn at different paces must not lead to any children being branded in a negative way. Rather, better provision should be made for the youngest children in school, so that they can learn at their pace and receive training adapted to their age and stage of development. As an overall committee emphasises, it is important that the legalisation of obligations should not go beyond the possibility of adapting training and that the school and the teachers' room for action to assess how intensive training is to be organised and implemented should continue to be large. I would also like to stress that for the Christian People's Party, it is a prerequisite that this does not contribute to increased testing and increased demands for the youngest students. In the proposition, the government also proposes several other legislative changes, which the Christian People's Party also supports. I think it is particularly gratifying that the Swedish Law of Higher Education will also apply to Svalbard, and that there will be a proposal from the government on the law enforcement of camp school stays.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2612	Today, the Storting takes new steps towards a school with opportunities for everyone, a school where social backgrounds are not to create obstacles to success or not. We contribute by decisions today and other decisions made this spring, by building a stronger team around the children in kindergarten and the youngest students in school. Let me just mention seven of the measures that are now in place: firstly, we are now getting more safe adults around the children in kindergarten through a minimum staffing standard and a pedagogical standard. We legislate an obligation to cooperate between kindergarten and school, because we know that transition is challenging. We impose an obligation on the school to cooperate with relevant municipal services, for example: health services, in order to provide better assistance and support to children who are struggling. We implement, in cooperation with the Christian People's Party, a teaching norm, which makes there become more teachers in many schools. We strengthen the competence of teachers, especially at the start of training. We help to increase the number of teacher specialists, especially with the skills of the youngest children. And we're imposing a legal obligation, so that those kids who get hung up on in reading, writing and billing, get intensive training. These are seven concrete, important measures, which mean that we build a stronger team, and that we catch up with children who are hanging out. My concern is all the children who have gone through school without having learned to read, calculate and write properly. We know that if you don't get caught early enough, you get a lot of problems later in school or later in life. There has been a problem in School-Norway that students who have had challenges have received help too late. Let me also stress that intensive training will be part of the regular adapted training at school and the obligation to provide all pupils with customised training. The aim is to enable pupils to follow the general progress of education quickly. This does not undermine the right to special education. But of course, it's a clear goal in what we're doing now, that the need for special education can be reduced when we build a stronger and better team around the students. The organisation and implementation of this intensive training must be assessed by the school and teachers in the light of the needs of the students and other training measures. In other words, this is not left to the municipalities, but it is left to the professional discretion and the room for action that the school and the teacher will have. One might say that here we are following up some of the intentions of the trust reform proposal, which some parties have promoted in Stortinget. Let me also stress that in the implementation of the law, I will be concerned that students' needs should be met in the best possible way, adapted to their age and maturity level, based on the professional judgement of the school and the teacher, and that there are no unfortunate forms of bureaucracy that can lead to the wrong focus or misuse of the teacher's time and powers. I am also very happy that we are today getting a model for a letter to work. I have traveled a lot around the country this spring and visited companies and the introduction program. I've been talking to those who work on vocational training. The proposal we are now getting in place is very well received. It can help to ensure that several of those currently lacking formal competence can obtain formal qualifications and paid professional letters. I have faith in this will bring good results. I am also pleased that the Swedish Law of Higher Education now has its own home for the establishment of a folk high school at Svalbard. This is something that has been requested and wanted. It can help strengthen the Svalbard community by giving us the opportunity to build more knowledge and skills and attract more young people to Svalbard.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2638	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2643	I noticed that the Council of State spoke very positively about our proposal for trust reform. I hope that means that the government parties are behind it and vote for many of the proposals in that context. I also noticed that he was very satisfied with his own efforts – he had a nice and long list – and that must be allowed. I want to ask about the change in the law we have to deal with, especially because I noticed that the council of State in the paper was very concerned about the profession, the teachers' own assessments of this. In the treatment Stortinget has had, we have also asked the professional and received feedback from the Education Association, which represents the teachers in the schools. Their consultation opinion highlights in particular the lack of commitment to ensure the changes needed in school as presented by the Council of State. So when the Council of State is so concerned about listening to the profession, what is his comment on the hearing opinion of the Education Association in connection with the concrete amendment of the law we have to deal with?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2650	I have expressed my opinion that it is important to give teachers and schools a room for action. I think it's important. Especially now that we receive a five-year master's degree and strengthen the qualifications of teachers, we need to have confidence in the professional space for which they will have to implement this. I disagree that this is too low a commitment – rather on the contrary. The reason why we are now introducing this statutory obligation to intensive training is that today's regulation is too small a commitment, and that today's regulation has been linked to the efforts of several teachers in school. Now, when we get the teacher code in place, we can take a step further, that we give a priority to reading, writing and calculating. With all due respect, I thought it was also the intention of the Workers' Party. In any case, it was in the previous period when we talked about a reading, writing and calculation guarantee. That is precisely what should be essential to get in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2657	I note that the Council of State disagrees with what the teachers and the Education Association say. I still think there's an important point they're making, that this presented, the little amendment of the law that I talked about in my post, is too uncommittal. I still want to challenge the Council of State in a little bit of the same way: does he not see any possibility of doing anything about exactly what the teaching prophecy itself brings out, that is, making this little bill a little more binding, so that you can see the necessary change in school?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2664	This will lead to a change in school. What becomes important now is the actual implementation of this obligation, and I explained in my article how we will follow this up. It should not contribute to red tape, but it should help to ensure that when the teacher sees students who are in need of reading, writing and billing, they can receive intensive training. With more teachers in school, there'll be an increased room to get it done. But I can promise the representative that we will follow this closely, because this is very important. If we're going to succeed in solving many of the societal challenges we have, we have to make sure that children get caught up in the past, get picked up and get intensive training, so that we avoid them going through school, as too many have done, without basic reading, writing and accounting skills.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2669	Learning is a complex process that does not necessarily follow a straight line. Although a student has successfully completed the first four years of schooling, it does not guarantee that the student will experience mastering the challenges later in the school cycle. The government’s proposal limits the obligation to provide intensive training to 1–4. steps. Knowledge gaps depend on more elements than subject and age. Then I would like to ask the Council of State: why does the Council of State think that students from the 5th to the 10th. Steps which, for various reasons, are pending in one or more subjects, but which may be able to recover by offering intensive training for a few weeks, will not have the opportunity to do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2676	I believe that is already in today's law, because everyone has the right to adapted training. What we have chosen to do in this case is to take on the basics – to read, write and calculate – because we know that it is a prerequisite for a lot of other subjects. I do not disagree that much else is important, and we shall deal with it in turn and in order, not least through the important innovation we are now engaged in. But what we've chosen to do here is to get to the basics of reading, writing and calculating. As I was in my post, by putting in place a statutory obligation for mutual cooperation between kindergarten and school and between school and other municipal institutions, I believe that we are now getting important pieces in place, and then we are going to work on the other questions, among other things. through the trade-renewal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2683	I thank you for your answer. If we then take the government's approach to the matter into account, that this is a tipping point, that is processing, and it increases the teachers' room for action to tackle intensive training, how will the Council of State ensure that the youngest children receive the intensive training they are now going to need, and what tools do teachers have to have to have to meet the need for intensive training? May it be, for example, additional screening tests? What measures will we be able to take on the table?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2688	We have been very clear that this does not create any need for more tests or more tests. We've made that clear. I have great faith that teachers with competence, both professional and pedagogical competence, also see students who get hung up on reading, writing and billing. These are fundamental skills. By over the last three years, we have built up and gained more teachers in school — there is an increase in teacher density, and now the teaching norm comes into place — there is a greater room for the school and for the teacher to provide intensive training for the students who are going to attend. So if that's not enough, special pedagogical help might be necessary. But at first we believe that intensive training, either in small groups or in one-to-one, is a room that teachers should have and that we expect is used.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2695	The evaluation of the Knowledge Promise showed a clear increase in the use of different organised level differentiations. Based on existing research on level differentiation, there is little evidence to suggest that better opportunities to organise pupils in groups by professional level will have a positive impact on pupils’ learning outcomes or have other significant positive effects. Organized differentiation by professional level has a negative or low positive effect for low and medium-performance students, while high-performance students may have an advantage, but the effects are not particularly high. There are other educational instruments that have a far greater impact on pupils’ learning outcomes than setting up level-based student groups. By providing schools with an obligation to be intensively trained, will this not also legitimize and stimulate further level differentiation in Norwegian school?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2703	There's nothing in this proposition that we've made that would mean that there's going to be an increase in the use of permanent level differentiation over a long time. Here we're talking about intensive training that can be small groups, or that can be one-to-one. So it's the way it says it in the proposition that research finds great effects of small group education for low-skilled students, but it assumes that there's no permanent level differentiation we're talking about. We're not talking about any permanent level differentiation, but I'm worried about the students who don't get caught up, the students who have gone through primary school without being able to read, write and calculate, because we know that it increases the risk of challenges in other subjects and further education and working later on. We want to capture the students, but there's no reason here to do more tests or standardisation or level differentiation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2710	I'm afraid to ask something that someone else has asked about, because then I can be blamed for not joining the class – I might have needed some intensive training. But I want to ask the Minister specifically about it with level-differentiated education and that there should be no more bureaucracy. I am very afraid that this will lead to more bureaucracy, and I want to challenge him a little bit on how to concretely solve this at school level in order not to get more bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2715	We may all need some intensive training in-between, and I can confirm that as a government council you often need it, and it is very useful to get intensive training. I'm glad that many focus on unlucky red tape in school. That is why I clearly warned in my post that we are going to follow closely, but also provide guidance in the implementation, so that this does not contribute to red tape and the wrong focus. This is about the kids, it's about the students, and it's about catching up with those who are going to be hanging after.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2722	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2729	It has been said very well here about intensive training and duty of cooperation, and I am very pleased with what is being adopted here today. But I need to pay a little more attention to another part of this bill, namely, Professionals at work, because this is really a day at work for us who are eager to strengthen vocational training. We have just discussed the proposal for a new law on vocational education, an important strengthening of the vocational education sector, and it is now about Professionals at work. One of the reasons for this government's strong commitment to professionalism is precisely the great need we have for skilled workers, skilled workers, in the years to come. We need more people to choose to complete vocational education, but we also need more unskilled people in companies to qualify for a letter. That's exactly what we're going to do now: we're going to make sure that it's possible by making the Professional letter system on the job into a permanent scheme. The pilot project that has been carried out has produced very good results. Professional letters at work ensure that theory and practice are taken together, and the scheme has been described as a gold recipe by the participants themselves. Having a letter is not just a proof of professional competence; it also provides greater security at work. Taking a letter is good for the individual, and it's definitely very good for us as a society. Many have stated that they have needed a small push from the employer in order to obtain a professional letter, and now more employers are given the opportunity to provide the employees with the help they need to get started. I read here a day about a company called Fenner Mandals, where 40 employees now have to take a letter to work at the same time. It's a little impressive. This is something they have agreed with the trustees and the company management. As the trustees say, one thing is that this will give employees an increase in pay, but it is so important that it does with the pride of the profession and the well-being of the job. The company also sees great advantages and believes it is good that they can do so for employees, and that it actually increases their own competitiveness. I really hope that many other companies will be inspired by this company – and the companies that have been subject to the trial – to invest in their employees and to increase their competitiveness. So the participants describe this as a gold recipe, and I think they're right about that. This is so good – this is a great day at work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2744	In this case, the Workers' Party and the Centre have promoted a joint proposal, and I must say that to hear the representative Knutsdatter Strand defend that proposal was quite interesting. It should be quite alarming for those who voted in the Workers' Party, and the Labour Party's school policy, at the elections last year, for this is a reverse of the rare. According to Marit Knutsdatter Strand, the proposers no longer want to have extra focus or press the follow-up in the first few years, rather on reading, writing and billing. There shall no longer be a particularly early effort in the first to fourth years. class; there shall be a general effort on everything. There shall no longer be a special reading, writing and calculating guarantee; there shall be a guarantee which applies to all other subjects as well. It's being a little obligatory. Let me just underline two things. One: Motivation and well-being are important within all disciplines, and it has a value. But when it comes to reading, writing and calculating, it's not the school's profession. There are far-reaching skills that you need in all subjects – also in gym, music and natural sciences. The second: Need must, of course, prevail. We never give up a single student, no matter how far in school the student has come, but research shows that extra efforts at the first stage can prevent later reading problems, that reading, writing and billing are basic skills in other subjects – tools you need – and that it has a greater impact on children if they get help early. I thought that the Workers' Party was for this, for just before the summer, in the settings of the Apprenticeship message, the Workers' Party writes about its reading, writing and calculation guarantee: ‘Such a scheme involves a survey of the reading and accounting skills of all students at the first and second years of age, where students who are below a defined minimum level of reading and billing receive an organised offer of intensive training and other follow-up needed to master these skills.’ So it's a year ago. Now there is a total turnaround, where the Workers' Party has taken a sprint against SV – and on the left. It's alarming, it's interesting, and it should actually be possible for the representatives of the Workers' Party here today to explain why they have done such a shift, and whether they think it leads to a better school and better adapted education for the youngest children, who we know need to learn to read, write and calculate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2758	I would like to begin by saying that I am very pleased that we are today stating that the Swedish Law of Higher Education applies also to Svalbard. I believe that it will ensure an even better reception when the Education and Research Committee goes there in August. It is a challenge that early learning challenges can develop and strengthen over time. Lack of reading skills, problems with writing and not being able to cope with mathematics – when these challenges are not addressed, but follow the student up in the classrooms, in high school and all the way into high school, it will eventually be impossible to take back the rest of the class. That's a lot of the explanation for the high dropout in high school. When one in four does not complete in normal time, it is simply unacceptable. Everyone agrees on the goal of lifting these students, whether they're in 2nd grade or in 6th grade. However, the Labour Party believes that the challenge needs to be met by several measures — a reinforced early effort beyond what the government has proposed. I do not feel that it is my job to take responsibility for the confusion of the representative Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde. She referred to a quote from Jonas Gahr Støre – a very good quote – and what the Workers' Party wrote about its reading, writing and calculation guarantee last year, and explained it really very well. - Thank you for that! I think this confusion is also the cause of a little excessive rhetoric in this matter. The proposal in the case we are dealing with today is that the schools should follow up students in several subjects and up the course of training. The working party will have its own efforts for students at the lowest class stages. That is why we have proposed several teachers over several years, especially between 1 and 4. step – the lot to the right has strongly disagreed with it. That's why we're proposing a read, write and calculate guarantee at the lowest stages, to give all students who are below the critical limit, a proper follow-up fast. It's possible to have two thoughts in your head at the same time. I am quite sure that if the government had been for this and the Workers' Party had been against, the Right would have said that they have higher ambitions. In this case, that is exactly what is happening: the working party is more impatient and has higher ambitions than the government for those students who need an extra effort. We want to make more than a minimal change to the law, as the Education Association says is a little obligatory. We want a more practical and creative school, which makes it more suitable for all students, and takes more into account how children learn and thrive in the first years of school. We want a reading, writing and calculating guarantee, more teachers at the lowest class levels, and not least we want to give teachers competence, time and trust. Time to follow up the students we make sure by getting more teachers, but also by taking the job of cleaning up their daily lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2773	The President would point out that accusing a co-representative of being confused cannot be considered to be in good parliamentary practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2778	That was her word.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2783	The next speaker is Marit Knutsdatter Strand.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2788	The centre party is particularly positive about caring for the youngest students in school. I would like to make a recent proposal on the evaluation of the six-year reform, which was originally promoted by the Christian People's Party and the Central Party. We want to see how the youngest students meet when they start school, and how the first four years of school are. The criticism directed at the Central Party today is unfair and makes one feather ten chickens. Intensive training can be found at the top of adapted training and at the top of special education. As the Council of State itself says, adapted training is already intended to take care of different students in different disciplines with different challenges. From my point of view and in the teacher training I have with me in the luggage, basic skills are already extremely important today, across courses and steps. This action will be ‘butter in bottle’, and there is no need for it. That's the basis for the criticism from the Center Party, and that's why we think it's going to apply across disciplines and stages. If the need is as stated by the government parties, it should not be limited to 1 to 4. class. There may be other elements to watch. The centre party is very excited and eager to see the outcome of the external evaluation of the six-year reform measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2796	The representative Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2801	I was accused of being confused, and I am, so I'll be honest with you. To take three things: The government will impose an obligation to specifically follow-up students who have difficulty reading, writing and billing. The working party went to the choice of a reading, writing and calculating guarantee, where all students had to be surveyed for reading and calculating skills at the first and second stages. Those below a critical limit shall receive intensive training to master these skills. Today, the Workers' Party writes in its comments in the setting: ‘By limiting the obligation to apply only to the basic subjects, these members consider that the proposal will further govern at the expense of the other subjects, contrary to the school’s overall competence tasks.’ Then they propose to remove ‘read’, ‘write’ and ‘count’ and ‘1 to 4’ in the legal text. I am confused, and it should also be the members and voters of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2815	I realize that my struggle to dissolve in the representative Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde's confusion is probably incarcerated. When she uses a rhetoric that it's a shift and a spin, it's a well-known rhetorical grip from the Right. Is that a shift? No, no, no. And I believe that this type of rhetoric just shows that there is a need for a separate reading, writing and calculation guarantee, as the Workers' Party suggests. A reading, writing and calculating guarantee is a special and reinforced effort at the lowest class stages for those students who are below a critical limit when it comes to reading, writing and billing. If you get the opposite of making sure that you also help students who are in the 5th, 6th and 7th grades to achieve the goals of the subjects, crack the reading code and get holes in the math bubble, you have ambitions on behalf of the students. This isn't a reverse operation. It's a continuation of the effort that the red-green government also had. I believe that there is a relatively unscrupulous competition in school policy, where there is a kind of competition about who is to be credited with different results in the PISA surveys. I remember that when there was a decrease in the results of some PISA studies, Right-wing representatives thought it was the fault of the red-green government. If there was any rise in the results, it was the honor of Kristin Clemets and the promise of knowledge. That rhetoric continues today. I just want to remind you that the term 'early effort' was first introduced under the red-green government, with Kristin Halvorsen as Minister of Knowledge. So it has taken this government over four years to come up with concrete measures. I would also like to remind you – first of all – that the credit for the results at school lies primarily with the teachers. Secondly, when the red-green government went off, the arrows pointed in the right direction. What would you have done under the red-green government? It was introduced, inter alia: several lessons in math, Norwegian and English. New and specialised teacher training was introduced. There was a requirement for a minimum of 100 days of guidance for teachers’ students, which the government is now unable to increase, even though they are expanding teacher training for a whole year. The system of national tests was transformed into more follow-up of the individual. The revenues of municipalities were increased by 60 billion. kr, such as led to 4,500 more years of teaching. And when the red-green government went off, international studies like PISA and TIMSS showed clear improvements in students' learning outcomes. No other country could point to such strong progress in math as Norwegian 4th grade. At step 5, we were best in the Nordic countries in mathematics. The reading results improved. We're all happy when the results in the fields are improved, but we're not going to exaggerate these changes or say that there's a huge difference in the results now compared to the results 10 or 18 years ago. For the Workers' Party, it is clear that the learning outcomes are still not good enough. We want improvements, through learning pressures, early efforts, reading, writing and calculating guarantees, a more practical school, which allows more students to find their way there, and a stronger focus on well-being, students' self-esteem, self-confidence and well-being. Finally, when it comes to trust and trust reform, I hope the signals we get here lead to the government parties being positive. When teachers want stronger legislation and more action, do we show confidence in teachers by not giving them what they want? No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2832	There is no doubt that there were many contradictions in the last article of the Workers' Party. You can't go up to the pulpit here and say it's quite problematic that someone starts taking credit for different actions, because then in the post start taking credit for their policy just showing progress on international results. What is at the heart of this, and which the Workers' Party's representative is not responding to, is the need we have today to clarify what is the Labour Party's policy in terms of having specific efforts against reading, writing and billing. No one can come here and say that a special effort is not exactly the same as Jonas Gahr Støre and also the representative Henriksen went into the campaign and promised, namely the reading, writing and calculation guarantee, on which in this case the reference to reading, writing and billing is just removed in the legal text. Then you simply canceled your own election vows that you should have a special focus on it. That's when it all becomes quite strange and confusing for several of us – that you should have this guarantee, but at the same time bet on all the subjects. It doesn't work – you can't have a specific effort on everything, there's nothing specific about it. It's actually following today's training law, which says you have to have an adapted education, and you have to follow up students who have challenges in some disciplines. It's in today's law. What we're doing here today is prioritizing, because it's necessary, because we know that students need a specific follow-up – precisely these skills they need to build on in their initial training. Fortunately, I believe that the majority of today's population are certain, and I look forward to following the results of this further. When it comes to this reading, writing and calculating guarantee and the reference to trust reform, I think it is a small paradox all the time when the content of this reading, writing and calculating guarantee is actually several mandatory screening tests and more reporting in the municipalities, while at the same time it is believed that reducing bureaucracy in school and having fewer samples. There is also a contrast in the rhetoric and policy of the Workers' Party in this Chamber in relation to what is provided by representatives' proposals. Here I believe that the representative Henriksen and his membership of the Education and Research Committee should clarify: What is the policy in this area? What are the promises? Are you going to follow up on what you said in the election campaign? Or is it today's setting and thus the left turn that applies?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2843	In the debate it begins to take a picture that no matter how much the representatives of the Workers' Party respond, the right representatives will not be satisfied. I have to say, it might not surprise me so much. It is quite often in this Chamber that the Right's representatives neither understand nor like the Labour Party's policy, but it must be up to the Right's representatives to stand for it. As it has been very clear, the Workers' Party in this case is concerned with having two thoughts in its head at the same time. We're more impatient than the government parties are, we want more. I think it is revealing that right in the rhetoric and this debate makes this a debate about either – or – that one cannot achieve more or have greater ambitions than what this government itself puts up to. In this debate, I note that the representatives of the Right, in particular, do not respond to any of the challenges we have given them, which come from, for example. teachers and professionals, on how the government's proposals for debate in this Chamber today could be improved and made more committed. One is more concerned with creating confusion about a very clear and good proposal from the Workers' Party than to answer for one's own ambitions. I think this is a strange way of discussing what Norwegian school does not deserve, which this case does not deserve when it is the government parties who are responsible both for the case that has been promoted and for its implementation. That is why I would like to remind you once again of what the Federation of Education, the professional who is so concerned about having confidence, has said in his hearing opinion, which is precisely that this is too uncommittal; it needs to be done more; there must be more tools to give one to get the results that this case requires. I wish that the representatives of the Right, who are responsible here, could answer that very challenge, rather than be concerned with a confusion that exists only with the Right's representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2854	The representative, Martin Henriksen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2859	It's not a backside or anything minus for us that Right-wing representatives are confused and admit it themselves. I have to say that when the government says they're prioritizing this, it's a little ambitious proposal for minimal legislative change. But I took the floor to comment on something the representative Gudmundsen said, that our proposal for a read, write and calculate guarantee – which we have promoted six times in the Stortinget, and which the government parties have voted against each time – will lead to several mandatory monitoring tests with reporting. Where in the world has the representative Gudmundsen come from – when it has been black on several occasions by the Workers' Party? It's simply an unfair presentation. What we say – and have said several times – is that we should use today's screening tests in the reading, writing and calculation guarantee, and that our point in this case and with the trust reform we have promoted is to use the knowledge we have about the school better. That the government feels pressured because other parties want a more offensive effort, I take as a good sign.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2870	I find that we are not getting a response here today as to whether removing a reference to intensive training within reading, writing and billing is therefore a generalization of what the Workers' Party really means. To the last thing that the representative raised, I really just want to point out what the Workers' Party itself is writing. It states that the Workers' Party’s representatives – on early school work, Document 8:99 S for 2014–2015 – proposed to introduce a reading, writing and calculating guarantee in school after the second stage. And then it comes: such a scheme involves a survey of ‘all pupils’ reading and accounting skills during the first and second years’, where students who are ‘under a defined minimum level of reading and billing are given an organized offer of intensive training and other follow-up’. I would like to remind you that in today's quality assessment system, it is such that some of the samples to which the working party here refers are voluntary, not mandatory. Ergo leads to several mandatory screening tests in Norwegian school. I think that's going the opposite of what you rhetorically say here from the pulpit – and it's clear you get a little confused when there's two different messages in one thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2879	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2895	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2904	Biogas is a very important part of the climate solution. That's why it's been a pleasure to see the commitment to this both in the Committee across party boundaries, in the government and in the many actors who have contacted us while we've been working on this matter. Biogas and products such as bio-fertilisers have many advantages. The use of biogas to replace fossil fuels contributes to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in the sectors where the gas is used. Biogas in the transport sector to replace diesel and petrol will also reduce noise and local air pollution. And biogas production based on manure contributes to reducing emissions from the agricultural sector. There is a farmer who appreciates me very much! I come from the biogas complex of Vestfold, where the commitment to just investing in biogas is enormous. We've built the Count Biogas Factory, or the Magic Factory, as we call it locally. We drive many of our buses on biogas. Our municipalities are heavily involved in the factory and use biogas cars to a large extent, we have filling stations in place and more under construction, and agriculture contributes with livestock waste. And to you who live between Drammen and Kragerø: Thank you! Their food waste runs our buses in Westfold. Did you know, for example: that a school bus can do six meters on a single apple cartilage? But it's not just in Westfold it happens. Biopower is starting up at Forest in Trøndelag, where waste from forest and fish are the main ingredients. Like many of us who work with climate, they tend to say when things go well: it happens. However, although we are well underway in Norway, transport remains one of the largest sources of greenhouse gas emissions. The electric cars alone cannot solve this, there must be more green elements. Biogas is a particularly important part of the solution for the transport of goods. We politicians can be proud of the heavy investment in biogas. That is a reason why Vestfold – and others – succeed, but that is just the beginning. For even more joy it is to see that business is really on the ball. Our role as politicians is not to subsidize green solutions into eternity, but to create a market for them. That, for example: Tine has now chosen to run on cow power, as they call it, so biogas, is extremely important for the development of a complete value chain for the biogas. It is said that gold cannot be made of greystone, but at least with the biogas you can make gold out of crumbs!
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2923	Biogas from waste provides high value creation both now and in the future. Biogas is a circular bioeconomy that provides for increased value creation, greenhouse gas emission reduction and good use of resources. Biogas should therefore be treated as electricity and hydrogen in the green shift, especially in the transport sector. It is therefore important that the fuel hierarchy place biogas at the same level as electricity and hydrogen and treat it in a non-discriminatory manner in terms of benefits and incentives, thus creating a larger market for biogas and ensuring the development of the Norwegian biogas industry. With regard to the solutions that come from the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European With this, I also take up the proposals that the Workers' Party, together with the Centre Party and the Greens' Greens' Party, is making under proposals from minorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2932	The representative of Runar Seestad has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2937	I would also like to start by thanking the proposers for raising the issue. We know that we need to maintain our mobility while reducing emissions, there won't be one solution to this, but more. Biogas is and will be one of these solutions. I think it is important that systems facilitate more technology-neutral development, which looks at the whole life cycle of the vehicle regarding emissions, including production and recycling. It is worth including in the discussion the revolution that is taking place today in vehicle emissions, with both zero-emission and low-emission vehicles, but also the enormous emission reduction from fossil cars that we see. That is why I share the intention of the proposers – that alternatives should be more equal to electric cars. I believe in principle that the proposal of the minority in the matter is good in many ways, but I also see the challenges of follow-up and control. It is therefore important that the government continues to facilitate the further development of biogas production and use with other measures, such as better support schemes through both Enova and Innovation Norway. The public can also contribute in many ways to the security of the market for producers by ensuring that public purchasers impose requirements for the use of biogas in tenders, such as: collective or boat routes and ferries. There has been a provision to put in place a regulation on energy and environmental requirements, and one will now carry out an evaluation of how this has worked. Biogas is a fantastic product, made of organic material, waste or manure, and is built up under the principles of circular economy. I'm probably less afraid than the majority – and the minority, for that matter – of this case in terms of natural gas as part of and using biogas as a fuel. We must bring up the market for biogas and give manufacturers safety and predictability in their production. In this way, the use of natural gas will have a positive impact on the climate and will be a necessary bridge to a low-carbon society. Finally, I would just like to point out the importance of the Committee's recommendation on the clarification of the fuel hierarchy, so that the benefits and excellence of the biogas are well presented and properly produced.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2950	The centre party would also like to thank the proposers for this proposal. There are important measures and instruments that can strengthen and increase biogas production in Norway. Wet organic waste is an important raw material for biogas production. Production based on manure is a cost-effective and important contribution to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, while making good use of both food waste and manure. The centre party believes there is a need to stimulate the goal of 30 pst. of the manure and food waste is destined for biogas production and it is provided that biogas plants are able to include manure in their production. An offensive policy related to biogas production requires, on the other hand, that concrete instruments be put in place to establish and develop a market for biogas use in Norway. This draft representative contains such instruments. Waste Norway, as a trade association for the waste and recovery industry, has provided input to the consideration of the proposal by the Committee. They support it and write that this can help create the platform the industry needs to develop a biogas market in Norway. Demand for biogas is not keeping the same pace as current production. There is a lot of available capacity in the market today. At the same time, the potential for increased production is high. Biofertilisers continue to be difficult to place on the market, and many bio-fertilisers continue to experience that the product produces a negative result. The lack of the market clearly shows that existing instruments are not sufficient. Furthermore, it is also more expensive to invest in vehicles that can run on biogas. The national transport plan aims to ensure that all new passenger cars and light goods vehicles will be a zero-emission vehicle in 2025. The centre has programmed that all public transport should be fossil-free by 2025, that we should have a large-scale commitment to bioenergy and advanced biofuels in the transport sector in the future, and that a strong focus should be placed on biogas as an energy carrier in transport. Such concrete objectives require a pooling of concrete instruments. That is why the Central Party supports the proposals we are making in this case, and I would also like to inform you that we are going to vote in favour of the resolution of proposals No. 3 and No Four, that's what we're going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2963	Biogas investment is essential to cut greenhouse gas emissions. In Trøndelag, on the site where 18 years ago a polluting gas power plant was to be built, a biogas plant is now being built. This year, Biokraft completes the world's largest liquefied biogas fuel production plant on Forest in Tributary Layers. The environmentally friendly and climate-neutral fuel shall be used to replace fossil fuels in buses and heavy goods vehicles in Norway and will make a significant contribution to reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the Norwegian transport sector. The plant will produce enough biogas to allow us to go from diesel to biogas on the Nordlandsbahn and increase the environmental friendliness of the railway even more. The issue we have to deal with today is to treat vehicles using biogas in a non-discriminatory manner with vehicles using electricity. They shall be reduced in one-off charges, cheaper toll crossings and cheaper parking. The problem is that vehicles that can run on biogas can also use fossil energy. We have no good chance of ensuring that those who buy a car that can go on biogas will not use fossil energy as fuel, or that there is no blended fossil fuel in the biogas that is being sold today. There is a great chance that we will end up providing an environmentally friendly vehicle with zero-emission fuel to a vehicle that actually uses fossil fuel. That's not the way to go. It will go beyond the bet on electric cars and hydrogen cars. In any case, SV will not contribute to a system where you end up rewarding those who use fossil energy. We realize that the intentions behind the proposals are good, but the danger is great because the desire to do something good results in actually doing something completely wrong. The most important thing we can do now is put in place the user charge for all fossil gas. It will also contribute to a strong increase in the use of biogas.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2972	Biogas is a cheek egg. At the same time, it solves several environmental problems: greenhouse gas emissions are reduced; it helps to reduce emissions of local air pollution; it can reduce noise pollution from heavy vehicles; waste becomes a resource rather than a problem; and biogas production gives us new, green jobs across the country – and biogas is a circular economy. There is a significant potential for biogas production in the coming years, and it is incredibly important to facilitate increased biogas production and use in Norway. Many key instruments are already in place, but we need more if biogas is to become more competitive. Biogas must be part of the ongoing and long-term process of converting Norway into a low-carbon society. In the short term, biogas will mainly be present in parts of the transport sector, in particular for heavy transport, for buses and for plant machinery, but biogas can also be used for much more. We need to aim at the long-term possibilities, with the production of hydrogen from biogas, and that biogas can help replace fossil raw materials in the production of plastics. The location of the biogas in the fuel hierarchy needs to be prepared. Waste-based biogas is considered to be an advanced biofuel and is a good alternative, especially for heavier vehicles where there is no zero-emission vehicle. Technological development is very fast. That is why I am very pleased that the regulation on energy and environmental requirements for the purchase of vehicles for road transport will be reviewed during 2018. We also need a charging policy that promotes the production, market development and use of biogas as a fuel. Increased biogas production is important to cut emissions in the transport sector, but also for increased value creation, not least in agriculture and aquaculture. The climate benefit of Norwegian biogas production may exceed 100 pst. if it is properly exploited, and we have to make sure that it does. The size has set the goal of 30 pst. the manure in Norway shall be used for biogas production by 2020, but until now only Westfold has reached that target. Vestfold and Østfold are the most advanced in biogas buses, and others have much to learn here. I want to add: Look two Vestfold! This has been achieved by targeted work over a very long time, and not least by a very good cooperation between the county council and all the municipalities in the county. The left believes that we need to make the biogas even more competitive, both on price and on environmental criteria. It is therefore essential to clarify how the greenhouse gas emissions of biogas are produced in the fuel hierarchy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2989	I'm going to try to be a little short and not repeat, because there's a lot of good points that have come out in the debate so far, and I think it's pretty obvious to everyone that there's a lot of common intentions here. The car park is changing. He gets greener and greener, and it might even happen faster than we'd thought a few years ago. That is why there are many suggestions on the table. The Christian People's Party has chosen to support one of the three proposals in the setting, namely that the Stortinget asks the government to clarify the fuel hierarchy so that the climate benefits of biogas cars are properly produced. There is also a clarification that one should come back to the Storing in an appropriate way. There is something I expect because I believe this preparation can be done with and clean up. When you want to create a transport system that's greener and more forward-looking, biogas is an important part of it, and this is a puzzle piece that needs to be put in place when we're going to go towards the low-emission society. It would have been a useful measure, and then it's good that we've managed to get together about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e2998	No one's against eplezake with cream. Everyone is too gentle and likes fresh water. The same is true of biogas: everyone is too – because it is ridiculous to cut down rainforests when we like to run on the waste we have in our backyard. Biogas is the forgotten biofuel option. As mentioned here, we can use food waste, coca smoke, agricultural waste, fish waste, farmed fish sludge — even sewage sludge. All of this muses these billions, yes trillions of methaneogenic bacteria happily in very heavy biogas tanks. Out and up comes an intrusive gas. We humans don't like it, but car engines, tractors, ferries and truck engines are being blasted with purified biogas on the tank. So instead, the government wants to import liquid biofuels into our engines. With it, palm oil and rainforest pests are on the load. We could just as well, often much rather, run on fossils, diesels and gasoline, than on biofuels with palm oil. The gas station chain Circle K says that now the politicians are directing us straight into the palm oil. They do not want to use palm oil, but fear that they have no choice when the government's requirement for biofuels increases to 20 pst. in 2020. So instead, we could run on more biogas than electricity and hydrogen. Biogas is not even reported as biofuel in Norway as it is exempted from the turnover requirement for biofuels. So the problem isn't biotechnology, the raw materials or the engines -- all of this we have -- what keeps biogas back is a kind of chicken or egg problem. Investors hesitate to invest in new biogas plants because they have to be sure that someone buys the biogas and those who are wondering about getting a fleet of biogas trucks or buses or ferries, nodules, because they cannot be sure that the supply of biogas is at a predictable price and a predictable volume. Here it should have been a flourishing, no, a bubble market. We are faced with a clear example of what the economists call market failure. The biggest barrier in this market lies on the demand side. Therefore, we have made proposals to stimulate biogas demand by non-treatment of biogas with electricity and hydrogen. The success we've had with electricity, we can also get on biogas. But here's a stand still. The Court of Auditors has also pointed this out. The authorities have been criticised for too little effort on the growth of bioenergy – biogas in particular. The National Audit Board recalls that, as early as 2008, Stortinget joined the government’s goal of increasing the annual consumption of bioenergy twice by 2020, but concluded that the growth in the use of bioenergy is significantly less than expected. This has the opportunity for Stortinget to rectify today, as far as the biogas bit is concerned. That is why I address our proposals in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3012	The representative Per Espen Stoknes has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3017	The government will reduce greenhouse gas emissions in Norway by 40 pst. towards 2030 with the EU. Major parts of the emissions cuts have to be made in the transport sector. In the government platform, therefore, we have a target of halving emissions from the transport sector by 2030, and there is a need for many different measures to achieve this. Biogas has a number of benefits for both climate and environment and will be one of the solutions for reducing emissions. That is why I share the intentions behind the proposal for a representative. For the transport sector, it is primarily for heavier vehicles, and also subsequently for shipping, that biogas is the most relevant. In the beginning, I would like to say a little bit about the government's initiative for biogas and what is happening in this area. For several years, the four bourgeois parties have worked widely on support schemes, fees, research and development. Substantial appropriations for the investment and production of biogas and the acquisition of biogas vehicles have been adopted through schemes managed by Enova. Support has also been given to public companies, such as: has led buses in Trondheim today to biogas. We have put in place a pilot scheme for biogas, the aim of which is to test out new substrate combinations. As of 1 January 2016, a user charge has been imposed on LPG, i.e. propane. It is also decided to introduce a user charge on natural gas when we have a system of user tax exemptions for natural gas in place as a complement to biogas. Fertilizers are a valuable raw material in the production of biogas, and support for the transport of manure to biogas plants was also increased in the agricultural settlement of the year. There are currently 40 biogas production plants in Norway. One of them is Count Biogas in Tønsberg, who was also mentioned earlier, and I visited them last week. Count Biogas received significant support from Enova, no later than 114 million. kr in January 2018 in connection with the extension of a third production line. This will double the production capacity and replace over 20 million litres of fossil diesel. In the neighbouring municipality of Horten, the same day I was delighted to open a filling station for biogas. This was funded by, among others: climate action funds from the Environment Directorate. This is also reflected in Biokraft's project on Forest, which has also been achieved through the investment carried out over several years. There are many of these examples that show that investing in biogas works, but we're going to do more. These include: important to ensure that more people have access to biogas in order to be a real alternative. A national alternative fuel infrastructure plan has already been established in the national transport plan and the Climate Strategy Communication. This also includes biogas. The initiative on biogas was further strengthened when Stortinget addressed the Climate Strategy Communication. The timing of the notification indicates that the government will consider establishing an action plan for expanding biogas in Norway, cooperating with the biogas industry on an industry standard for biogas, and reviewing the instruments for combined agricultural heating and power supply, e.g. biogas in combination with solar cells. In the representative’s proposal, the government is asked to investigate and submit proposals involving the non-discrimination of biogas vehicles with electric and hydrogen cars in the form of exemptions from the one-off charge and the benefits of bombing and parking. Such arrangements would be difficult to put in place and control. The supply of biogas is not always as stable, and in a transitional phase we will therefore have to use some natural gas as a supplement. Thus, it is not granted that a gas vehicle is necessarily always running on biogas, even if the driver has an intention to do so. Biogas is a climate-friendly and good alternative fuel in public acquisitions, especially for heavier vehicles. Biogas has characteristics other than electricity and hydrogen but can be equated as climate action in many areas. Therefore, a national transport plan target was set for all new urban buses in 2025 to be a zero-emission vehicle or to use biogas. Government acquisitions will be important for this segment. Otherwise, I would point out that in the national transport plan, we use a differentiated approach to fuel. I will come back to Stortinget in an appropriate way with a preparation of the biogas location in the fuel hierarchy. This will be useful for both public and private purchasers who want to avoid fossil fuels.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3044	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3049	I have a question for the Council of State: why will the government not impose a user charge on all fossil gas pending the ESA clarifications on these transitional arrangements, where such a charge is then exempted for some types of fossil gas use?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3054	This has been a process that has been in progress for a long time. This Decision is from the budget for 2016. The problem is that you have an uncertain supply of biogas, so you need a spare capacity. Then it is to agree on the reserve capacity and get this notified to ESA that has been the problem. This is an ongoing process, which I hope we can complete as quickly as possible so that we can get a user tax on natural gas, but at the same time ensures access and has the tax exemption on biogas. This has been complicated – a long process that we want to complete as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3059	I understand that processes with ESA can be time consuming, but while waiting for the ESA clarifications, could not the government have introduced a general user charge for all natural gas?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3064	The problem is that it does not necessarily help the biogas, because what we need is that biogas is competitive with natural gas. In order to be stable for biogas, you need to be able to have the backup that allows you to also get the tax exemption for the natural gas that needs to be part of the solution. What we have done in the meantime, and which I believe has been successful, is to raise demand with other instruments. That's what this is about. Many people want to invest in biogas, but they want to raise demand. This is achieved by supporting, in particular, the public companies in order to use biogas. Trondheim is a good example of the significance of Biokraft's project in Forest.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3069	In the debate we have heard that the supply of biogas today is greater than demand. Then it would be in the favor of the biogas that natural gas, or fossil gas, became more expensive. That would have made people choose biogas over natural gas. What I'm asking for is action from the government while we wait for the ESA clarifications.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3074	I believe we have been acting for all these years, and the willingness to act has been with me as a big-time representative from 2016, i.e. trying to put in place the right competitive environment, so that when you support biogas, you can't really open the door even for the use of natural gas. There's no other answer to that. We are actively working towards ESA to find a solution and answer the questions they have, to get this in place. In the meantime, it is about strengthening support schemes, including for production, but in particular for increasing the use of biogas. It will be against heavy transport, bus companies and also after each ferry and shipping.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3079	It has been mentioned that politicians should not pick out individual technologies and push them. We need more technology-neutral instruments. That is one of the reasons why we made a loose proposal here today on a «climate class» that could apply to trucks, all of which were exempted from tolls. Market studies show that, for example: ASKO says that biogas trucks would be profitable if they got a toll exemption. But they also assess other biotechnology and bioenergy forms, such as bioethanol. We therefore put forward the following proposals: ‘The government is asking for exemptions from tolls for a ‘climate class’ including biogas trucks and other alternative truck drivers in a build-up phase [[at least five years]] My question to the Council of State: Is this something that the Council of State can investigate or take a closer look at in the near future?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3090	Now we have the exemptions for a zero-emission vehicle, which works very well. The preliminary problem with biogas is that, as long as it does not have a clear competitive environment in which biogas is cheaper than or competitive with natural gas, there is a risk that, even if it has the biogas technology, natural gas will still be used. This is also because one must still have back-up solutions as one does not necessarily have a stable supply of biogas. Then it won't be the same zero-emission effect. I think this is something that needs to be waited for until we have an assurance that it is actually biogas that is being used, and then one must rather follow this development in the future to assess future changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3095	I believe we share the belief that this can be dealt with by the market if it has clear and stable framework conditions. My follow-up question to the Council of State will be whether it will be impossible or difficult to imagine that during a phase-out period of five years, we can allow the use of natural gas in a transitional phase, and then we say that this should be zero from 5-7 years. Then we would have solved the problem of the variability of the biogas in an entry-level phase and had time to build up a solid supply page that would match a predictable demand.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3100	The most important thing is to put in place a user charge for natural gas. This would then be competitive, as a previous questioner had to say. The most important thing is to move on in that process. In the meantime, we need to create conditions for more people to do as in Westfold and Eastfold, use biogas in the bus sector, and use it in other areas until we have it in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3105	The first question asked me in many ways took my main question, so I'll just have a little bit deeper in it. You avoided the question of why the government would not apply for a user charge pending the ESA's completion of the procedure. What remains unclear to me is: Will the government wait and wait, or will one take the initiative? And if you don't take the initiative, what is the reason why you choose to keep waiting for ESA to complete this process before you phase in the user fee?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3110	We have an active relationship with ESA. It's not like you're sitting there waiting. This is about answering the questions that are coming, in order to clarify them. Then it will also be with this exemption as with other charges that one will have a notification period. It's in the contract work we have. I think we now need to finish this. There is no doubt that there has been a strong investment in biogas that works in Norway in recent years. We've gotten demand up, but now it's a stage in how many want to invest, and we'll get more production. That's good. We have plenty of places where we can put it into use. But this particular change has been difficult to achieve, and I have to press it to make it as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3115	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3122	Biogas reductions in the bombing have been discussed for many years but have not yet been introduced. An important reason for this concern about a biogas discount scheme will work is that it can also promote the use of natural gas, which the representative Mr Haltbrecken was involved in. This concern is felt by the Green Party to be unfounded if a clear model can be introduced. The point is that a priority for biogas together with electricity and hydrogen through better incentives for GA-registered biogas vehicles with a particular emphasis on reduced bomb tariffs will have a very positive impact on first use and then biogas production, with associated positive effects on the environment and climate. According to ASKO, biogas vehicles would be profitable in operation today if they were exempted from tolls. The biogas market is largely demand driven now, that is where the barriers lie. Increasing end-user profitability will be a catalyst for increased biogas production and therefore also for increased bio-fertilisation production. If there's a willingness to stimulate demand, there's a lot of models you could use, where you could use fossil gas as a transitional arrangement. For example, it could be seen that all registered vehicles with a GA plate are given a discount in the case of a bombardment. They are currently assigned by the State Road Service to a pure gas vehicle and to a gas vehicle which also has a small emergency tank for alternative fuels. If you open for up to 50 pst. the proportion of natural gas sold over the year in this way, with a clear drop to 0 pst. in 2025, it will provide a very clear model for those who offer gas as a fuel for transport. The tax authorities could then have the task of checking that fuel suppliers are related to this law. There would then be no need for any double work in the form that toll collectors would also check. This would be a simple model and provide a rapid increase in the demand for biogas, and it would solve the said hen and egg problem that is currently preventing the growth of biogas.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3131	SV will support the first three solutions proposed by the Green Party today. But I would like to challenge the representative of the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European If that assumption is not included, we are at risk with this proposal to introduce cars running on fossil gas, and that was hardly the intention.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3136	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3152	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will suggest that, within the allocated speaking time, six rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time are given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3161	Let me first thank the Committee for both patient work and good cooperation. Today we are dealing with the representative proposal 155 S for a change in the regulations for the use of motor vehicles in the field and on iced watercourses. The background to the case is that the local authorities can today authorise the use of snowmobiles for the «owner of a cabin for the carriage of luggage and equipment between road and cabin at least 2,5 km from the broken road where there is no possibility of rental in the area». The representative proposal will remove the condition in the regulation that there must be 2,5 km between the broken road and the cabin in order for the municipality to be able to authorise the use of snowmobiles for the transport of luggage and equipment, etc. There can also be discretion in municipalities as of today, for example. it may be that the airline from the broken highway to the cab is less than 2,5 km but the actual running distance due to topography, lakes, rivers and mountains is greater. It is important that judgement is applied so that the legislation is not perceived as rigid. It is a view I understand also shared by the Ministry of Climate and Environment. Some municipalities have had a practice that, according to the Ministry of Climate and Environment, extends the discretion for which the regulation opens up longer than the law allows. Whether it is, or whether it is, a change in the practice of the statesmen which makes it tightened up is uncertain, but at least a more stringent practice is reported in some statesmen. For this reason, a Joint Committee has stated that: ‘The Committee further points out that although the starting point for the assessment is that the distance is measured in the airline, topographical aspects are to be assessed in each case, in view of the fact that the determination of the distance requirement of 2,5 km between the cab and the bridged road is not to be unreasonable.’ In addition, a majority of the Committee goes further and makes the following clarifications in an annotation form: ‘This majority considers that it must be the path or line in question that the owner of the cabin can actually use, and not a theoretical airline, which must be the main basis for the municipality to assess whether the owner has a reasonable opportunity to carry the necessary luggage and equipment on his own without a motorised vehicle. This majority argues that the statesmen practice such an understanding of § 5c of the regulation in their follow-up to the practices of the municipalities.» In my opinion, this also means that if the statesmen do not follow the will of the majority of the population, there is no reason why the matter is raised again. Finally, I would like to say that we have come a little step in the right direction. That being said, it is clear that the lead position of the Progress Party is that this can and should be liberalised, and I would have liked to see that we had come even further in this matter. But at least we've come a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3188	One of the finest things about Norway is our pristine, quiet nature. We're gonna take care of that. The lot is dependent on the continued illegality of motor travel in the outland and the strictness of the legislation governing the exemptions. Therefore, the Workers' Party is not today – and has never been – a member of any kind of free slip. It's bad for nature, and it's bad for the possibilities of outdoor life for all of us. Today we are discussing a small part of a regulation. It's not a big deal, but it's important to them. It's a 2.5 km limit for the use of your own scooter for your own cabin. The limit doesn't give you any rights to use your scooter, but it's an opportunity to search the municipality. What is good and right to have in one part of the country can be wrong elsewhere in the country, both because geography can be completely different – the terrain can do that something that is 2.5 km in the airline, can be much longer in reality – and because renting transport in many places can be difficult or even impossible. Therefore, many municipalities in Norway, not least in the north, now report that what has been practice for many years, and which have given few conflicts for years, is now being stopped by the county officials. Therefore, what is the new practice is not that municipalities that have found a good and balanced way to do this should not continue to do so. In the Workers' Party, we were unsure whether it was right to remove this rule altogether, or whether it was right for the Storting to treat a small part of a regulation. That's why we weren't ready to go in for the proposal as it initially existed. We wish the government had come to the meeting, and that they had solved what was the background for today's debate. We also heard the case rapporteur himself say that he should also wish that the Progress Party had done so. Unfortunately, the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have not been able to do so. That is why the Workers' Party today, together with the Centre Party, has made a proposal asking for a test scheme in which the municipalities themselves can decide to drive to a cabin based on local conditions. If the proposal we have with the Central Party falls, the Workers' Party will vote in a subsidiary way in favour of the proposals of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3199	We are fantastically lucky in this country. We have a unique nature that we want to use, and all aspects relating to conservation, use and organisation are weighted and on behalf of us when we go in and should take action in the wild. However, precisely facilitating the use of our natural areas in a wise and good way was the introduction to the Right-front part-government in the previous period of motor travel in the outland and in place of a correction in the regulations for motor vehicles in the outland and on the covered watercourses, which facilitates the use of motor vehicles for the transport of goods and equipment under certain conditions by the municipalities themselves upon application. The regulation was thus softened and local conditions were to be applied when individual applications for the use of motor vehicles were evaluated. The changes that were made were welcomed and built up under the principle that decisions should be taken near where people live. However, this Central Party 8 proposal points to something that is alarming and not entirely in line with the intent of Storting when we took decisions in the previous period. A different practice is experienced by the administrators and statesmen in the different counties, and rejections are made on the basis that the distance measured in the airline is not long enough. "Long enough" refers here to the limit of 2.5 km from the broken road to the cabin. The government party believes that the regulation is not mature for revision, but sees that on the basis of current practice it is sometimes necessary that the Storting interprets its intention with the decision that was made in the previous period, because it shows that the regulation can be interpreted in different ways. For us, it's important to stress that it's unimaginable that it's the airline that's being grounded, and that Storting's intention is that it's the path or the line in question to get out that's supposed to be the basis for measuring the distance between the broken road and the cab. In our comments, we are just clarifying this principle, and that is the understanding that statesmen should use when following Section 5(c) of the regulations to the municipalities. Based on this clarification, we hope that the regulation as it stands will serve the purpose in an appropriate way, and so we will not vote for the proposal as it stands or for the supplementary proposal as a loose proposal in this Chamber today. As it is, we will nevertheless follow developments carefully, because it is important that we facilitate the use of the whole country and the South to ensure that local participation and democracy are exercised in a good way near where people live, for the best for those who know how local conditions are.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3220	Since the law on motor traffic came in 1978, municipalities have established over time a practice based on local knowledge and local assessments that are believed to be within the framework of the legislation. This has been accepted by the county office for more than 40 years, but now practice is to be tightened up overnight on the next renewal of scooter licenses, after the County Council has announced a tightening of the rules. This will affect thousands of cabin owners in the country, who will not get their scooter loop renewed for utility driving to their own cabin. For the country as a whole, this case is not of great value to focus on. If, on the other hand, it had been a matter of tightening up boating in the archipelago, it would probably have created a great uprising. But for North Norway and other parts of District Norway, this matter affects the quality of life of a large number of people. Norwegian topography and the tradition of scattered cabin construction mean that this intensification means an intervention in quality of life and a reduction in public health by making established family cabins and associated outdoor activities inaccessible. The left is clear that they do not like the proposal. My concern is that this is an easy matter for the government parties to sacrifice to the Left. Both the Right Party and the Advance Party have been clear in the media picture, and not least in the election campaign, that they want to adjust the legislation in this area. Now the matter is suddenly not mature enough. One of the biggest contributors to getting people out of the sofa and out into nature is actually a cabin. We pack with us children, fishing equipment, skis and a lot of good food and get on the cabin, which is to be the base of all this joy of life and nature. The main objective of the Centerpartie amendment is to provide local government in the municipalities in this area, as it is the municipalities that have firsthand knowledge of the overall environmental impact of the various local areas. It is also in line with the government's signals about more local authority rights for municipalities, and it is not least in line with the government's intention that municipalities should have more tasks. It's not about a slipper for scooter driving. It's about utility driving to your own cabin. Society has changed over time. It must also be the regulatory framework. It is therefore disappointing that parties such as the Advance Party and the Right today are voting against the proposals of the Central Party on local self-government, and it is particularly disappointing that the parties cannot even participate in a testing scheme. Nor does it seem that they can participate in a clarification of the legislation, as the Christian People's Party suggests. I am promoting with this proposal from the Central Party in the matter. If our proposals fall, we will vote in a subsidiary way for the proposals of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3237	The representative Sandra Borch has drawn up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3242	The Norwegian people are a people on tour. We're looking for silence, tranquillity and the amazing natural experiences. The debate on the liberalisation of the motor vehicle law some years ago just showed this. There was a huge popular resistance to the changes that were proposed, yet they were made. Today we are discussing new proposals to make it easier to use motorised vehicles in nature. I believe the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment is absolutely right when he says that this will lead to a significant increase in motorised traffic in Norwegian nature. So it's suggested to allow more of what people want less of. In a 2017 TNS Gallup study, the Natural and Environmental Survey, people were asked to what extent they agreed with the claim: ‘It should be easier to obtain permission to use snowmobiles in Norwegian outland.’ Seven out of ten disagreed that it should be easier to obtain permission to drive snowmobiles in Norwegian outland. That was more than before. I am therefore pleased that the bulk of the population today is not opening up to further liberalisation of the motorcycling law.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3249	Let me start by thanking the case spokesperson and the rest of the Committee for the good treatment of this matter. The majority say that there is a desire for a restrictive motorcycling policy in the field, and we have shown that in a number of cases that have been dealt with earlier in this Chamber. Nevertheless, as the Christian People's Party points out, the framework for this restrictive policy must not be so square that it gives completely unimaginable results, which in turn will actually help undermine the popular understanding that is in order for us to have a restrictive policy. Scooterlöper is a case field that brings up the pulse of many municipal authorities. It's important that we, as legislators, give the municipalities leadership here. So it's important that we clarify that there's room for using folklore. We thought that this representative proposal from the Central Party has something on its own, but that it opens up more than there might be reason for it. So the Christian People's Party has put up a solution where we stick to the 2.5 km requirement, but it specifies in the regulation that when they grant permission, the municipalities should be able to look at topography and natural and defensive trasé choices, not just an airline. It has been highlighted that this action room is already in its regulation. It may do so, but the practice that we hear shows that there is a number of unrealities in one for rigid practice. The Christian People's Party thinks that here the Storting might as well clarify this. I feel that the bulk of the population share the intention, but they don't want to do it. I take up the proposal that the Christian People's Party is behind, and shall not hold on much longer. This is, after all, a prescription, which is strictly the government's table. We should all contribute to the exceptional discussion of the issues in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3262	The representative Tore Storehaug has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3267	Eight out of ten Nordics want better control of snowmobile driving in nature, showing an attitude study on this topic. A few years ago, however, this blue-blue government allowed pleasure driving by snowmobiles in forests and mountains, despite the advice of an overall environmental and outdoor movement. Now the center part unfortunately wants to gear up the snowmobile drive further. The proposal by the representative Borch means that it will be even simpler, by allowing municipalities to easily allow people to drive to a cabin with snowmobiles. It is in practice another decoration of the legislation, with more snowmobile rides everywhere where there are cabins, which is now nearly everywhere. There's good reason why most people want better control of snowmobiles, because uncontrolled pleasure driving in nature is a nuisance for many who are looking for good nature experiences in forests and land. Skiers quickly feel unsafe, families with children and older people start avoiding areas where they have to share space with vehicles at high speed, there is more noise, more damage, more accidents, and driving also naturally affects nature and animal life. About 25 pst. of the snowmobiles we have in Norway, already running where it is not permitted, shows new surveys. Fortunately, in Norway more and more people are looking for nature with a desire to experience tranquillity and tranquillity, perhaps not so strange with our increasingly hectic everyday life. People also come from far away to enjoy this beautiful nature of ours. It contributes to valuable district jobs. Natural love is a good Norwegian value, but by increasing the number of snowmobiles dramatically — only in two years it has increased from 60,000 to 85 000 — it is becoming increasingly difficult to find and enjoy this silence, more difficult to find snow that has not already been driven by snowmobiles. MDG wants primarily to reverse the government's legislative change. We want to take back the quiet nature of the people, and here we have the people on our side. In the Central Party one should also listen to the people, instead of working for the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3285	In Norway – although at times it has been controversial, I have also been involved in those debates – we have a good set of rules for outdoor motor travel. The Motor Traffic Act was adopted in 1977 because the motorized movement in the outfield had become so extensive in many places that it caused too much stress on both game, vegetation and general well - being. From a societal perspective, it was found necessary to regulate motor travel. In order to preserve nature, environment, outdoors and general well-being, the legislation seeks to limit the movement to purposes and needs that have a generally accepted utility. The transport requirements of isolated cabins are such a generally accepted utility in the regulation on the use of motor vehicles in the external and in ice-cold watercourses. According to the relevant provision, cabin owners may be allowed to carry equipment with snowmobiles when the cabin is more than 2,5 km from the broken highway. The proposers request that the distance requirement of 2,5 km between the cab and the broken highway be removed so that all cabins can apply for such a transport permit. In Norway, we have almost 460,000 cabins. I don't know exactly how many of these are located less than 2.5 km from the broken highway, but there are potentially many cabin owners who with this proposal would be able to use their own snowmobiles for the cabin. Since many cabin areas are located in the most attractive open-air areas, it is particularly open-air that could be affected by this increase in motor traffic in Norwegian nature. Many of the routes that will be involved in snowmobile transport are driven up to cross-country ski runs in winter. Children’s families in particular use the huts and will be affected by increased snowmobile driving. The increased motor travel that could result from this proposal, I believe, is contrary to the purpose of the Motor Travel Act. Opening up the possibility for all cabin owners to be allowed to drive with their own snowmobiles could also distort the balance of current motor traffic legislation between nature and outdoor life considerations and taking into account the real needs of the user. The transport requirements for cabins located closer to 2,5 km from the broken highway are met in today's legislation. Baggage and equipment may be carried with contracted assistance, so-called hire driving. This helps to limit driving while providing local entrepreneurial income. Proposalers are concerned that judgement must be exercised in determining the distance between the cab and the broken highway. I fully agree with that. This is also evident from the guidance given by my department and the Environment Directorate. Although the measurement of the distance between the cab and the broken highway is based on the shortest path between the cab and the road, judgement shall be used. If the terrain is too steep, or you have to go around lakes or mountains, it's the real trail or path you have to go on, which forms the basis for measuring the distance. But even though there is room for discretion when measuring the distance between the broken highway and the cab, the municipalities can't give permission or not assess the distance where the actual distance you have to go is actually less than 2.5 km. In the light of the majority comment in the case, I will now prepare a letter to the statesmen, which makes it clear how the distance requirement can be practised. In the letter I would like to make it clear that the decisive factor for authorisation is whether the actual distance between the cab and the broken highway is more than 2.5 km, i.e. the shortest, but still practical, distance between the cab and the motorway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3300	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3305	It is far from this country, and the challenges — and geography — are often quite different. For example, we are dealing with: The Oslo beach zone is different than we are dealing with similar issues on the Finnish coast. What is requested in this case is a testing scheme to listen to the many people who have reported problems. The fact that someone is going to continue to drive to the cabin saying, destroying families with children and over-skinned, I have to say, with all due respect, that there are enough of the cabin people, especially perhaps in the inner Troms and the area that I come from, who will not recognize themselves in. But my question is whether the minister at all recognizes the problem. And besides doing some clarifications, is he going to address the problems properly?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3312	I want to follow up on the intention of the majority comment that is in the matter, that one has to find out that it is the real distance – not just the airline – that is what one should and can assess, so that the flexibility in the regulation can also be used.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3317	Another question is whether the Minister really believes that both for the disabled and for the families with children is being destroyed by, for example: in North Norway, is allowed to drive to the cabin say. Does the Minister really think that it's going to ruin the barricade?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3322	Now I think it varies a lot around the country where you have these cabin concentrations. However, what is suggested by the proposal, removing the 2.5 km limit, opens up that, in many places – through processes in the municipalities – it could potentially become more scooter driving, and it is quite obvious that it would lead to more in the neighbourhoods, which would be disruptive. Then there are differences around the country into the individual cabin, although the distance regulation is the same, and what I would like to find is that you can use the flexibility in the regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3329	One final question is whether the Minister could have seen that a test system could have been used to respond to some of these challenges. Then you could look at it, for example. could be different ways of solving the problem, in different places in the country. So maybe a trial plan could have been a way to go?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3334	This is a regulation, and that is the possibility and flexibility in the regulation that we should take advantage of. You have the opportunity to drive a car, you have the opportunity. Then you also have the distance of 2.5 kilometers, which is going to be the same wherever you are in the country, and the flexibility in how to measure that distance is also going to be the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3339	I notice that the Council of State says that the Senterpartiet will give all the tenants permission to drive the scooter to the cabin say. No, that's not true. We want to give this to the municipalities. We believe that local elected representatives can make this decision. I also notice that the Council of State says that discretion is still to be used. What does that intensification mean for many statesmen? People who have driven scooters to the cabin say for over 20 years, are now afraid of their exemption. Can the Council of State guarantee a renewal of their rights when applying? I also notice that the government has said that you want more local self-government. They have said that several tasks must be transferred to the municipalities. Does not the Council of State trust that the municipalities themselves will be able to decide where to grant permission, without a limit of one kilometre?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3348	I did not say that the Senterpartiet will grant permission to all tenants. I said that we have many cabins that are within the limit of 2.5 km, and potentially it could increase the transport and use of scooters a lot. That's what I mean, it's a team to say. Otherwise, it is precisely that you have this flexibility, and it is the one I want to send letters about to clarify. But I cannot now say that I can provide a guarantee for each case around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3355	When I hear the Council of State talking about the scope of this, I have to remind you that it only concerns the cabins that are between 0 km and 2.5 km from the road – and have not broken the road. There are a few cabins in Norway that apply. But now leave it. When I hear the Council of State and the other representatives of the government parties, it sounds as if the intensification that the statesmen went out with earlier this year is something they've come up with themselves. For me, it is very striking that the county council in the county after the county then sends a tightening to the municipalities that the practice that the municipalities have had for decades to go back will no longer be accepted, that they should start from the airline, and that the judgement they exercise will not be accepted. Can the Council of State confirm that the statesmen have found this on their own premises — in all the states at the same time — or can the Council of State confirm that this is an intensification signal from the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3363	It's in case signals are given before me. What I want to do now is to draw up a letter that just makes clear the flexibility of the legislation. But the fact that there has been a letter from the Department in 2017 is correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3370	I listened with interest to the article from the Council of State and noticed me in a word he used. He mentioned a letter that he was to send to the statesmen, and said that it would use the word "can" and not the word "should" about the practice for which it was appropriate. Was I wrong, or was it a deliberate choice of words? What was in that case?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3375	It will necessarily be a «can». This would be a discretionary assessment. You have a 2.5 km rule, but you can make a judgement when you really have a shorter road. The role of municipalities in terms of authorisation will remain valid. I still believe that it is “can” that is the correct use of words.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3380	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3387	Listen to the people, the Greens said to the Centre Party. I can promise the Greens that we will listen to the people. We listen to people in the north, who may not have so many possibilities for other means of operating to get out or get carried a door or whatever it is, to the cabin, where there are not many scooter drosses, etc., around. I am extremely disappointed that the Right and Advance Party will not support proposals to give increased municipal responsibility and discretion in this matter. For many municipalities this is an important signal to send out to people where it has been problematic to obtain a derogation to drive goods and equipment to the cabin. In many municipalities there is not so much vegetation, but a lot of mountains and hills. When people get older, it's incredibly nice to get on a cabin trip and maybe bring along the equipment you need. With the proposal put forward by the Centre Party, you could bring along the equipment you needed to be on a cabin, in a good way. Section 5 of the regulation on the authorisation of the carriage of necessary equipment and baggage to own cabins is out of date with regard to today's social and usage requirements. The rule as it is now, works against its purpose, which was to stimulate improved public health and increased open-air joy. People will get on their way and not be sitting at home. With what's happening now, I fear that many more people are heavier about going on a trip – you don't get what you need, and then it's easier to sit at home. I wish this had a better outcome than it now seems to be. I wish everyone could at least vote in favour of the proposals of the Christian People's Party. Then we would have gotten a little closer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3398	From the time the Motor Travel Act came, the municipalities have had the opportunity to authorise the use of snowmobiles to drive baggage and equipment to the cabin if it is 2.5 km or more from the broken road. Every year, the municipalities have made judgement in this respect. 2.5 km is in the airline. This could mean that the walking distance is twice that. It could be steep mountains, it could be lakes, etc. The current government, through the State, has stepped up the enforcement of these provisions. It was 2.5 km in the airline that was supposed to apply. The possibility of assessing local conditions has become very limited. As I said, 2.5 kilometers in the airline could be something completely different than the distance to the cabin. It says little or nothing about how far it is to carry the luggage, or how far one must drive to get to the cabin. There may be snow conditions that make the track have to be laid somewhere else, there may be landowners who refuse snowmobile travel over, etc. The path that can actually be used can be both four and five kilometers long, even if the airline is two and a half. Those who have been allowed to drive to their own cabin for several decades have now lost that permit and have had a significantly less opportunity to use the cabin. This is distrust of local assessments, and the cabins will be less used, with reduced value creation in district municipalities because of it. Alternatively, rental services will be used. My experience is that those who use rental for, for example, driving the passer-gift, has a hirer to drive up, who then runs back, and they must have a hirer to pick up when the passer-gift is over. Ergo generates it twice as much scooter drive as if you have a scooter yourself, which is on the cabin. It is also important to be prepared. The government has talked about new tasks for the municipalities. The government parties have talked about less review of local decisions, which was the mantra of both the Right and the Advance Party in the election campaign. Here it really is a big gap between word and action. We believe that the sense is evenly distributed, and that local knowledge sits in the municipalities. Therefore, it is best that the municipalities assess this. I must say I am extremely disappointed by the lack of confidence in local democracy shown by the majority in this Chamber. I am not surprised that the Left is against me, but that the Right Party and the Advance Party, which in the election campaign went out strongly with more local government, vote against, I must say surprise. Yes, when the Progress Party even supports an order to restrict the ability of municipalities to exercise discretion and to deprive tenants of the opportunity to renew the dispensation they have had for many years, I have to say that I am both surprised and very, very disappointed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3411	This case is neither about free slip nor about the liberalisation of scooter driving. It's about listening when it's told about something that's going to be a big problem for many people in their everyday lives. It's about people having the opportunity to get on a cabin, not about anything in general. It's actually so that many people depend on using scooters to get to the cabin. It's also so that our parts of the country can be quite different. Some places, like here, there's a lot of people and maybe not so much nature to take off. In the part of the country I come from, there aren't so many people, but that's a lot of nature. It's important that we stick to reality. When laws and regulations are practised more stringently than what is intention, which in turn creates problems, there are fortunately some who say from. Local politicians, rapporteurs, regional councils, county councils and individuals say they do not like this. And they're asking the Storting to clean up. They feel that the possibilities of municipalities to make discretionary assessments of the use of snowmobiles for the transport of luggage and equipment to cabins are limited. They also show that the intensification is in stark contrast to the government and the Storting's desire to reduce bureaucracy and strengthen local autonomy. It must be strange for them to hear the minister stand here and say that setting up a test scheme to allow people to drive to the cabin – a test scheme – can destroy both families with children and the skirmishes. Yes, you can even use a so-called scooter taxi. In that part of the country I come from, at least you have never heard of any scooter taxi and that you can use it to get on the cabin. Troms and Finnmark Right have made clear decisions, in line with the Labour Party and the Center Party in Troms, that they want to remove these challenges that have arisen. The representative of Storting Gudmundsen from the Right also commented in advance in March that he wanted one of the proposers, Sandra Borch, to be welcomed after they made a proposal on this matter. Then I will tell everyone in both the Right Party and the Advance Party that they are welcome to join the team. It seems that the Progress Party should also be in favour of the liberalisation of Norwegian scooter policy. The representative Amundsen, with several, has even previously agreed to submit proposals that the municipalities themselves have to decide on the scooter policy. In this case, it is not even about liberalisation, but it is not about everyday problems to people most seriously. This is really the day when we can congratulate the Left Party on having managed to override the Right and the Advance Party in one of their nuclear matters. It might be interesting to know what business you had to sell for, to get this majority. I hope that several representatives in the Chamber can use their senses and agree with the Labour Party and the Centre Party in this matter. This is about solving the problems for people in everyday life. Yeah, that's actually what this case is about.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3428	I notice that there are few from the government parties who dare to take the floor in this matter. In particular, the Right Party and the Advance Party, which have been committed to amending this regulation for a long time, seem to be voting against. The fact that the Left gets the wing clip Right and the Progress Party in this matter is primarily sad for a number of cabin owners. It surprises me that you should be able to drive freely with water scooters all over the country, while you should not be allowed to drive scooters to cabins – because that is the reality. The intensification that County has notified will make a number of cabin owners unable to drive to the cabin saying in winter. This is a sad day because the government today recognises that the legislation should be interpreted strictly according to a kilometre requirement. It's a victory for the Left. I am surprised that refusing families to drive to the cabin is more important for the Left than larger issues such as investments in the Defence. The proposal from the Central Party is not a release, it is a proposal which, on the contrary, will get more out in the open air, for example. families with small children and the elderly who do not have the opportunity to go to the cabin. There has been a great commitment from many in this matter. Many statements have been made by county councils, municipalities, rapporteurs and regional councils in all party colours calling for the removal of the 2.5-kilometre rule and the transfer of this task to the municipalities. It's strange to me that we down here in this hall in the capital are going to sit and rule over people and municipalities in this way. The assessment of the granting of authorisation should be the task of the municipalities. It's those who know the environment, geography, weather and topography best. It's called local self-government. This must be one of the simplest tasks to add to the municipalities. If the municipalities aren't going to be able to get this as one of the new tasks that the government has launched, I'm very excited about what kind of tasks the government believes local elected representatives will be able to solve. There is also an emergency element in this case, because many cabin owners today do not have cover on the cabin. It's a well-known challenge, especially in North Norway. Then there's also a certainty that something acute would happen, that you have a scooter to get to cover quickly or down from the cabin. Those who have been in North Norway know that the winter can be rough weather, not least in terms of the amount of snow, and without cover on the cabin, one can not call after a scooter taxi. I have expressed this earlier today, but I am disappointed that the Progress Party and the Right are being instructed by a party of 4.4 p.m., because the reality is that there is actually a majority for this matter in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3447	I wish we had spent time on a different matter than a regulation, that we could have shown the same commitment to bigger and more important things. But now that we're here and I have to take this matter – which should have been a trifle – out of the Parliament's pulpit, it's because a regulation, a trifle, has little impact on people's lives, but it's very important for the few to do so. Everyone here has suggested that you really agree on how it should be, but disagree on how it should be done. If I understood correctly, he would send a new letter because Helgesen may have sent a letter with a different content. Helgesen wanted an incision, but the sitting minister does not want the same incision, and then you want to clarify it. The reason why this has become a matter is that you do not practice it the way everyone here suggests that you want it to be practiced. Who is better than the municipalities to assess this? There's no liberalisation, there's no release, there's actually a discussion about whether it's holding a letter from the Council of State to get things that we want, or whether we have to adopt a probationary system. I believe that once the matter has been reached by the Stortinget and the Parliamentary Chair, we should be able to support the proposal that is in place and have the effect that everyone has suggested from the Chair that you wish. Then the minister saves time to send a letter or an e-mail, and there is no doubt about what the policy is. So once again, today's strict practice of a rule is hopeless. So you're measuring on the meters from the nearest broken road. The nearest broken road in the districts is often a road with a speed limit of 80 km/h. It is illegal to park, and suitable parking spaces and turning points are usually not winter break, so already in the airline we are far above, but one measures in a way that prevents very many people from searching and being able to assess their needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3460	For those who live in an area where snowmobiles are a means of emergence, this debate is a bit strange. It's been said a lot strange that really doesn't belong to common practice. Firstly, the rapporteur said that this was a step in the right direction because the Progress Party wanted to liberalize. At best, this is a reintroduction of what has been practice until 2017 – at least there is no step in a more liberalising direction. There are some people who claim that this has to do with free slip. I guess no one wants the free slip of the scooter drive. It is a matter of the municipalities themselves assessing the distance from a cabin they own, and it is only a matter of transporting luggage and equipment. One cannot drive without a jaw. Becomes a roof without a jaw, loses a simply scooter's cane. So it's called “Enjoyment Drive” – that the Center Party wants more “Enjoyment Drive”. If you think of it as a “fun” drive to have the opportunity to bring your luggage to the cabin at Easter, it is. But I think most people who have cabins on the coast, also think it's very practical that they don't carry the luggage in the last two or three kilometers to the cabin. Is this going to be a problem everywhere there are cabins? No, it does not apply to cabins located more than 2,5 km away from the broken road. This does not apply to cabins adjacent to the broken road. There are only a few cabins, which are between 0 and 2,5 km away from the busted road, where the municipality has the ability to exercise discretion — whether or not to be authorised. There's a lot of talk about listening to the people and that those who are opposed to scooters have the people on their side. In my municipality, a recreation loop has been discussed. It was adopted against one vote in the Municipal Council. Then I think maybe it's those people who wanted a recreational life, who have the people on their side. It is said that skiers would be terribly insecure if we had gone in for this and that instead of driving themselves, one could use hire drivers. Then I really wonder if the rental scooter fights less, if it is much safer, and if it disturbs the skiers less, especially when you think that you would like to drive two trips instead of one. The Right Party and the Advance Party agree with the intention of this proposal, they say, but it is not well enough prepared for them to start. Our loose proposal is that we ask the government to put in place a test system, a test system for which the government itself can make the preparations. Then I wonder what needs to be investigated.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3480	I'm a little surprised by the use of the word from the Center Party, because here we don't talk about tightening up. We talk about clarifying what is stated in Section 5(c) of the regulation, that the municipalities can allow the use of snowmobiles for the transport of luggage and equipment after a written application. This has been perceived as an intrusion. Now the Minister will state that there is no tightening up at the moment. Let it work, and then we'll follow along with it, as we said in our main post, and the municipalities, with the proximity of the inhabitants they have, will still be able to grant the exemptions that the regulation provides.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3485	There were some statements here earlier that I thought could not be contradicted. It was claimed by the representative, Mr. Greni, that I had claimed in my post that this was something the statesmen had invented themselves. But that was really the opposite I said in my post. I said, and now I quote my own speech: ‘If it is, or if it is a changed practice of the statesmen that makes it tighten up now, it is uncertain.’ The representative, Mr. Greni, clearly did not know it either, for that was exactly what she took up in her reply to the Council of State – what was the background for the regulatory change. Furthermore, it is claimed that it is the Progress Party that has commanded the statesmen. But there are no representatives of the Progress Party who have sent letters to the statesmen – which we do not know the contents of either, but for which the Council of State explained something in the reply. I would also like to remind you that there will be an evaluation. Just in that evaluation, we can come back to what can change, and what can be done to get a better system. In the end, I would like to remind you that I think it is a bit strange to criticise the Advance Party for not doing enough, while there are other representatives, among others. by the Green Party, which says that it was the Progress Party that liberalised this legislation during the previous period. So one criticises the Advance Party for not having done enough, when it is the party that has done the most to liberalize the snowmobile driving code – while one was in exactly the same situation when one was in government with the SV and the Workers Party and did nothing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3498	The representative Sandra Borch has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3503	I notice what the case rapporteur here is saying. What is the reality is that the Progress Party and the Greens are in complete agreement on this matter. There is a lot that surprises me, but that I should be witnessing that the Right Party and the Advance Party are voting down a matter of local self-government and scooter, I would not have thought. And I'm very surprised that you can't be on the Christian People's Party's proposal, which just specifies what everyone agrees on in the comments. The representative of Storting Kent Gudmundsen said in the media when I promoted this proposal: Welcome after! I'm a little uncertain about what to say back with now, but welcome home to Troms! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3512	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3525	The size is then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3534	During the debate, Mr Wold put forward proposals on behalf of the Presidency to return the matter to the Presidency, cf. Article 41 of the Stortingen Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3547	During the debate, Liv Signe Navarsete has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Central Party. The proposal was turned into a transmission proposal during the debate and now reads: ‘There is a call for the Government to bring a case before the Storting on any participation in the EU defence fund and other defence policy areas not part of the EEA Agreement.’ The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without any responsibilities. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3560	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Oluk V. Bollestad on behalf of the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to explore the possibilities for strengthening Norwegian production capacity and quality with a view to having greater real opportunities to use the forced licensing of medicinal products through the TRIPS Agreement in order to ensure a stronger position for the State in negotiations on expensive medicines, which in turn could ensure more medicines they need’. Proposal No. Article 2 is replaced by ‘The Government asks the Government to explore the possibility of parallel import of the Spinraza medicinal product in order to ensure that all patients in Norway who need the medicine receive the medicine.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up. The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3597	In the course of the debate, a total of ten proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Tuva Moflag on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 3-8, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No 9, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Center Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No 10, Sheida Sangtarash on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests that midwives be referred to gynecologist.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3629	President! I should have voted against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3634	My voice was not registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3639	So let's do the voting again.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3651	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Center Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to stop further reduction of the average bedtime for women with childbirth in Norwegian hospitals.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3668	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3-8, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that food/breeding departments have clear arrangements with the municipal auxiliary services for follow-up, home visits, etc., prior to the prescription of mother and children, and to provide longer maternity leave in hospitals if this is not in place.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for a stepping-up plan for increased capacity in the municipal midwifery service.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess the educational capacity of the midwife’s education and the need to increase the number of places of study and training.’; Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to establish a basic principle for maternity care that families must be guaranteed a close and accessible provision of food irrespective of their place of residence and to ensure that health care establishments govern accordingly.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out a full review of the manning situation at the birthplace of the country in order to ensure that the manning is good enough for each woman to have access to one-to-one care from the midwife during the active part of the birth.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that all women who need, and want, help with the establishment of breast-feeding after birth, are provided with it by being in the maternity ward, hospital or other hospital-related services, including adequate follow-up in line with the applicable guidelines.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3714	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate, and require, employment throughout the positions of newly educated midwives in order to ensure that the competence and quality of midwifery are maintained.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a case to be brought forward to finance the care of the child, so that quality is premiered and that a proper manning as an emergency offer is ensured.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3738	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3779	The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3795	In the course of the debate, a total of five proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Tellef Inge Mørland on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 3 and 4, from Olaug V. Bollestad on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposal No 5, from Oluk V. Bollestad on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 4, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to ensure that there is an agreement for the purchase of premises at the two departments of the Borgestadklinik, Drammen and Loland, in order to ensure an increase in the number of treatment sites for patients with alcohol and drug dependence, and to ensure the provision of gambling-dependent, gender-separated treatment and other treatment facilities provided by the two departments.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to instruct Health South-East to continue the agreement with the two departments of the Borgestadklinikken, Drammen and Loland.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3834	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the geographical and professional deficiencies caused by the suspension of invitations to tender in the health sector in the south-east are corrected, if necessary by a new round of tenders. This applies in particular to deficiencies in the field of alcohol abuse, gambling addiction and gender-demarcated treatment that the two urban clinics that now have to be closed have faced.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3851	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to establish more treatment sites and better after-care for alcohol abusers and to inform the Storting appropriately.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3868	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party, the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal has been put forward to replace the recommendation. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to ensure that in Health South-East an additional offer of 10 detoxification sites is opened as soon as possible, which can replace the 10 sites built down in the health region. Until such time as such tenders have been carried out, the Government, within the framework of the public procurement legislation and, if necessary, through grants, shall be required to ensure that the Blue Cross Civil City Clinic can maintain its day-to-day operations.» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3885	The proposal replaces the setting recommendation, which then lapses.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3893	Four proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. That is the proposal No. 1-4, from Tore Hagebakken on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to establish concrete and measurable requirements for a higher proportion of full-time jobs in health establishments.» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3912	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that all health enterprises have schemes with their own temporary work pool/employee units with permanent staff.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the provision of a full-time job for as many part-time employees as possible in order to provide them with a full-time job if they are unable to get a firm full-time job in other ways.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the social partners to take the initiative in order to establish cooperation for the establishment of a temporary work pool with permanent employees in the municipalities, possibly as a cooperation between neighbouring municipalities.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3941	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3957	The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3973	During the debate, Karin Andersen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to launch as soon as possible a survey of the human rights situation in Norwegian hospitals and in the home services, where residents and users themselves, and their relatives, are sources. The Government is requested to report appropriately to the Storing.’» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3990	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e3998	The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e4014	All in all, seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Jorodd Asphjell on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Jorodd Asphjell on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 4, from Jorodd Asphjell on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 5, from Marit Knutsdatter Strand on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 6, from Marit Knutsdatter Strand on behalf of the Center Party proposal No 7, from Mona Fagerås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked by the Government to issue an accreditation and appeal system to colleges and to return to Storting in an appropriate manner.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e4052	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to monitor the knowledge base of the vocational schools and to undertake a placement of higher vocational education of level 6 in the qualification framework.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e4069	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to determine what should be done for any re-positioning of vocational education and training in the national qualifications framework.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e4088	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a stepping-up plan for the number of post-secondary education places, which takes account of the growing needs of trade union workers.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e4105	There is a vote on proposal No. Six, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The second paragraph of Section 16 of the Law on Vocational Education is replaced by the following: Applicants may be admitted on the basis of equivalent real competence. For technical training courses in the field of arts, applicants who meet specific professional requirements laid down by the specialised school may be admitted on the basis of real competence and examination of admission. The Ministry shall lay down in its regulations which artistic training courses may be subject to the admission examination.»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e4123	The Committee had decided to refer the following decisions to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e4823	Alternatively, between the Committee's setting up Section 16, second paragraph, and Section 18 and proposal No. 3 by the Labour Party and the Socialist Left and Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘Section 18 of the Law on Vocational Education is replaced by the following: In the case of completion of post-secondary education as a norm, the degree is given to a post-secondary school degree of one year or more. [[60 study points]] In the case of completion of post-secondary education as a norm of two years or more, the degree is given to a higher degree in post-secondary education. [[120 study points]] The Ministry may prescribe supplementary degrees.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The second paragraph of Section 16 of the Law on Vocational Education is replaced by the following: Applicants 23 years of age or older in the year of admission may be admitted on the basis of equivalent real competence. For technical training courses in the field of arts, applicants who meet specific professional requirements determined by the technical school may be admitted on the basis of real competence and examination of admission if the applicants are 19 years of age or older in the year of admission. The Ministry shall lay down in its regulations which artistic training courses may benefit from the exemption from the 23-year requirement for admission on the basis of real competence.’;» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals. The Central Party has notified that it is now subsidising proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox That means it's the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party that are behind the position.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e4855	The Committee shall be consulted on the position of the Committee on all remaining paragraphs.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e4865	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e4875	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e4884	During the debate, Mr Tvedt Solberg put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Teaching law § 1-4 and post-school law § 3-4(b) are replaced by the following: The school shall ensure that the elephants at risk of being suspended in trades are quickly given intensive training so that the expected progress is achieved. If the student’s best consideration speaks for it, the intensive training may be given as a single course for a short period of time.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e4903	The Committee had decided to refer the following decisions to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e5290	There is a vote on the Committee's suspension to training law § 1-4 and free school law § 3-4 b. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e5304	A vote shall be taken on the position of the Committee on the remaining Roman numerals and on all remaining paragraphs.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e5315	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e5325	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e5334	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Runar Seestad on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Environment Party of the Greens the proposals No 3-6, from Per Espen Stoknes on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA There is a vote on proposal No. 6 by the Greens/Greens/EFA Group. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for an exemption from tolls for a ‘climate class’ that includes biogas trucks and other alternative truck drivers in a build-up phase [[at least five years]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e5358	There is a vote on proposal No. 5. from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The suggestion sounds ‘The government is asking for proposals to introduce fossil gas user charges in the State budget for 2019, pending the ESA’s transitional clearance.’ The Socialist Left and Red have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e5375	There is a vote on proposal No. 4. from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for priority to be given to the establishment of a national liquefied biogas infrastructure in the alternative fuel infrastructure strategy under preparation in the Ministry of Transport. [[LBG]] The strategy shall ensure the establishment by 2020 of a national infrastructure for LBG dedicated to heavy transport, to a minimum equivalent to the infrastructure needs identified and addressed by the transport industry.’;» The Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e5392	There is a vote on proposal No. 3 by the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to make recommendations on how to ensure that public acquisitions promote both biogas and zero emission technologies.» The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e5409	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Environment Party of the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to ensure that, through its public acquisitions, governments equate biogas with the electricity and hydrogen options related to environmental and climate considerations.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e5425	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Greens' Greens' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to decide — and in the context of the 2019 State Budget — on the proposal for a scheme for vehicles equipped with a biogas engine to use it as fuel or hydrogen [[EL plates]] [[HY signs]] Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e5442	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e5461	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Sandra Borch on behalf of the Center Party proposal No 2, from Tore Storehaug on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposal No 3, from Sandra Borch on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests the implementation of a test scheme with local management of permits for snowmobile rides for its own cabin by the end of 2018.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e5488	There is a vote on proposal No. One from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government requests amendment of Regulation (EEC) No 15 May 1988 No 356 for the use of motor vehicles in the field and on irrigated watercourses as follows: Paragraph 5c is replaced by the following: owner of cabin for the carriage of luggage and equipment between carway and cabin when the cabin is not connected to the broken road. Permits are granted by municipalities after assessment of topography and actual running distance.»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e5507	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e5515	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government is asked to amend the Regulation of 15 May 1988 No. 356 for the use on land and on ice of motor vehicles as follows: Paragraph 5c is replaced by the following: the owner of the cabin for the carriage of luggage and equipment between road and cabin at least 2,5 km from the broken road where in the area there is no possibility of taking a lease under point (a). However, the local authority may deviate from this distance requirement when topographical conditions and/or real distance along the appropriate terrain trajectory so warrant.’;» The Workers' Party and the Centre have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e5536	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e5541	Since there are several people who have voted incorrectly, we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-24.ana.ud358e5562	There is no record. As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
