ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e80	Two permit applications are available: by the Workers' Group on the Permit of the Representative Eirik Sivertsen on 11 and 12 June to take part in a seminar in Washington, chaired by the British Arctic Parliamentary Cooperation Delegation, from the representative of Nils Kristen Sandtrøen on study leave from 11 June to 15 June Those applications are proposed to be examined without delay and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first representative of the Nordland County, Kjell-Idar Juvik, is currently abroad and is therefore prevented from meeting in the Stortinget under Eirik Sivertsen's leave. The following alternates are proposed to meet during the leave period: For the state of Hedmark: Per Gunnar Sveen For Northern Ireland: Rita Lekang – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e120	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16 until today's map has been processed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e138	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e147	I think it is appropriate to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in this matter. Despite the fact that we have had a lot of work and it has been very busy now in the interview at the spring session, we have managed to complete this case, actually in record time. I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity to thank the Secretary-General of the Committee for the soundness of his work in the Committee. This matter is huge and extensive, but fortunately it has not been so much political inconvenience. The Committee has put in place a good tool for municipalities and municipalities. The municipal law committee started work on the new municipal law already in 2013. We've got a lot of interest, and there were a total of 320 hearing responses to the department. In addition, we had a hearing in the committee. So what we're adopting today is taking care of a lot of stakeholders. That's important, because new municipal law is important to a lot of people. The law itself is an important tool for municipalities and municipalities to operate and develop communities locally and regionally. With the law that we adopt today, we are given a forward-looking and modern law that is up-to-date to today's expectations of democracy, processes, openness and participation: We legislate the local self-government – in the purpose paragraph. We reaffirm an important principle that public tasks should be added to the level of government closest to the population. And, not least, within the framework of national economic policies, municipalities should have free revenues, giving room for action for local priority according to local needs. In the new municipal law, the ability of municipalities to determine their own organisation will be continued. We explain in the law what authority and tasks the elected representatives and the administration should have. And we collect the vast majority of rules on self-control in an internal control unit, with the exception of health and care services. The reason for this is that we have both a primary health service and a specialist health service in the municipalities. It provides its own internal control posts for the health and care services. So the rules of elected bodies are simplified and clarified. We state that the rules of procedure apply to all elected bodies. There will be no exceptions, as it is in today's law. The new law thus adds to more openness than we have in today's law. Then we get two new forms of cooperation for municipal cooperation. It is a municipal task force and intercommunal political council. These new forms of cooperation are better suited to today's cooperation between municipalities. We strengthen the control of the municipal economy by speeding up the registration of municipalities with large deficits in ROBEK, and ROBEK municipalities are required to draw up a plan of measures to improve the financial situation. Fortunately, this is a broad deal on the Stortinget and in the auditions. There will be an end to the system of direct selection of vocabulary; for pluralists should have a plurality of presidency and local government behind them. There will also be the possibility of suspending vocabulary holders and the ability to take up the position of vocabulary handlers if there are good reasons for doing so. And finally, we get a municipal law that gives room for welfare arrangements for the populace, in line with employees. There will be an obligation for municipalities to provide for rules that ensure the rule of population who have served as the primary function, both maternity leave, parental leave and sickness benefit. Unfortunately, the government did not get a majority for the proposal of up to six months' pay. That's what I think we should have. The wording of the law that today gets plural, I think I'm unlucky. The majority, without the Right and the Advance Party's votes, will legislate that there should be youth councils in each municipality. Right-wing thinks it's bad luck, too. There are still too many small municipalities that can't take on all the tasks we think the municipalities should have. The Youth Council is a good thing, but imposing it on all municipalities to have it in the legal text means that many municipalities do not want to please the law in a good way. But that's a good and new argument for carrying on the municipal reform. Finally, I would also like to mention that the Right Party and the Progress Party are part of a joint committee that wants municipal government representatives to be able to sit on the board of municipal companies. The reason why Right supports this is that – as mentioned – there are still too many small municipalities in the country, and we need to be able to accept the use of good and dedicated citizens. But we clearly also see the challenges of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e189	Would the representative like to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e194	Yes, I must do that - record what you want to record!
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e199	The representative of Ove Trellevik has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e204	I would also like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in a large and complex matter. It is about 25 years since the Stortinget last had a major review of this law, and I would also like to take the opportunity to thank those who have participated in hearings, both orally and in writing, for there were many good and constructive contributions to the work of the best possible and relevant municipal law. And then we started with the purpose paragraph. We thought it was important that municipal autonomy was legalised in a new purpose section, and that is now apparent among other things. that the purpose of the law is: ‘to promote municipal and county self-government and lay the necessary framework for it. The law shall facilitate the local government and a strong and representative local democracy with active participation.’» It's a short, but descriptive purpose paragraph, which we think is comprehensive for the purpose for which it was designed. We've made up our minds that it should contain a lot more, but we've chosen to keep it short – and think it makes sense. As the rapporteur also pointed out, transparency in administration is important. We have also referred to universal design and clear language as a prerequisite for everyone to participate and stay as informed about their local democracy as possible. It is also a majority of the Committee which proposes it. Furthermore, of course, it is also a major concern of the citizens, and it was a proposal that there should be no promotion of increased requirements for signatures behind the citizens’ proposals, as proposed by the Municipal Law Committee. Then it is important for many that one still has a law that does not prevent the municipal government from granting, for example. funds to teams, associations and others, which then decide for themselves what the funds will be. That's a reasonable starting point. So for this with the youth council, which not everyone in the committee has agreed has been sensible to introduce for all the municipalities. The majority think it makes sense, and it's really a matter of principle. This is also mentioned in the Children's Act, the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, etc., which mentions the importance of children and young people being heard in youth councils, etc. It is an obvious advantage for society that children and young people engage, take responsibility, participate and be heard, and therefore we need to ensure that it is not up to each municipality to do so. Now we've got suggestions that can put it in place. Then we underline the Presidency model as the main model, but believe it must be up to the municipalities themselves to assess whether they want to govern the municipalities according to the Presidency model or the parliamentary model. That is why it is also – and the Committee supports the proposal – to introduce parliamentaryism, which requires a two-thirds majority. Then a strengthening of the role of the rapporteur is mentioned, with some limitations that it should not affect the ability of other elected or elected bodies to perform their duties. It is also supported that the rapporteur and the rapporteur-general should be elected from among the members of the Presidency, i.e. no direct election of the rapporteur. It also supports – and I think it is good – the possibility for the rapporteur to set up some types of selection, etc., with the limitations I mentioned. There are a number of things you could think of in this law, because this is in many ways the municipal constitution. It's a comprehensive piece of legislation, and as I said, there's been a lot of people involved in it. That's very good, and I think what's on the table for decision here today gives a forward-looking, modern and good municipal law, once the majority has been corrected in some of the original proposals that were there. So we're gonna have to believe this is going to be good -- I'm happy to follow the debate. I then take up the suggestions that the Workers' Party is behind in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e226	The representative Stein Erik Lauvås then brought up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e231	Today we are discussing proposals for a new and modern municipal law. It's been 26 years since the last time a new municipal law was introduced. Three principles have been underpinned: continuation of the rootstock, new structure and a clear language. The idea is that a good and understandable law causes fewer errors. The purpose of the law has been to promote municipal autonomy and to establish the necessary framework for it. I understand that the bill has received broad support from actors involved in this field. Some points were raised at the Committee’s hearing and some of them have been put into effect. The system of community proposals is important and engages individuals. With such an arrangement, citizens have the opportunity to put new issues on the political agenda. The Progress Party supports that the bill does not promote increased requirements for signatures in order to have a case dealt with by the local government. The law gives municipalities great freedom to establish the bodies they need, and great freedom to organise their activities as they wish. This will strengthen local self-government. The Progress Party is concerned with the involvement of children and young people in the development of child and youth policies in municipalities and municipalities. This has been recognised by the vast majority of municipalities today and has set up co-operative bodies, such as local authorities. child and youth councils. The fact that a minority of municipalities and county councils do not have formalised schemes may have different reasons and need not mean that they are not heard. The Progress Party therefore does not want to impose on the municipalities the statutory establishment of the Youth Council. That so many municipalities have such arrangements shows that it is not necessary to legislate everything we think is good here at Stortinget. This would also conflict with the idea of local freedom. There is full agreement that it is up to each municipality to assess whether they wish to govern the municipality according to the Presidency model or the parliamentary model, and that a two-thirds majority is required to introduce parliamentaryism as a form of governance. There is also full support for measures that can strengthen both the role of the rapporteur and the role of the elected representatives. The rapporteur is the main elected representative of the municipality, and it is therefore particularly important to trust the person who has worked for the rapporteur. The Progress Party therefore shares the government's view that the law provides for an extension of the right to suspend the rapporteur by a two-thirds majority of the local government, and that this also includes serious criminal offences which are not related to the position of elected representatives. It should be made possible for a rapporteur to be deprived of his or her duties when he or she is unfit to perform his or her duties. A minimum of 90 psts are required to exclude a rapporteur from his duties. by the votes of the local council, which will ensure a broad dissociation of the decision, even across political parties. The Progress Party is pleased that the government’s proposal does not imply the introduction of gender balance requirements into elected bodies as a whole. The workload is already too high for some today, and we are not worthy of losing engaged people because of a law that requires more of the individual than he wants. Furthermore, it is both important and right to strengthen the welfare rights of elected representatives when their position is their main concern. The municipalities are given great freedom to design the content of annual reporting according to local needs. The legal requirements for the content of the annual report are limited in order to allow municipalities to assess which topics should be given the most attention. New rules are introduced to allow municipalities with an accumulated additional consumption of more than 3 pst. revenue shall be included in ROBEK. Those municipalities are required to establish a plan of measures to ensure that additional accounting consumption is recovered and an obligation to implement the necessary measures. There is a need to lay down basic rules for the calculation of total self-cost. We have many examples of huge differences between municipalities, and the Progress Party is concerned that municipalities are using the law properly. There is a need for a specific legislative review, the aim of which is to remove most of the internal control provisions of specific legislation for municipal obligations. The aim is to achieve a more consistent and simple regulation of internal controls. An exception is made for healthcare. This is in a special position, as it concerns services provided both in the municipality, the county, by private and health enterprises in the specialist health service. These have always had uniform and common rules. This is important in order to ensure that the services provided are as comprehensive and equally sound as possible throughout the healthcare system. I want all our municipalities to be happy with the new law.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e263	New municipal law will replace the municipal law of 1992. It was the Stortinget that asked the government in 2012 for a comprehensive review of the municipal law, and under the red-green government, in 2013, a wide-ranging public selection was appointed. This width we see the result of today. The Municipal Law Committee gave its opinion on the draft law submitted in 2016. So the municipal law is engaging. I believe it can be established that a lot of good work has been done in the six years since the Stortinget asked for the start of the municipal law work. The selection has provided a thorough and comprehensive setting. There have been many hearings that have been listened to. I understand that there has been a good process between KS and the government during the work. The Committee broadly agrees with the legislative proposal submitted, but some important adjustments have been made. We agree on a lot, but not on everything. The majority of the legislative committee and the government propose changes to the purpose paragraph promoting the inclusion of local self-government, but at the expense of the provisions of the existing law to promote the rule of law. I am pleased that an overall committee believes that both local self-government and local government are important elements of our local democracy. We therefore change the law at this point and say that the law should promote municipal and county self-government and facilitate the local government. It is important that we get a municipal law that underlines local self-government. This underlines that municipalities and county councils are a little more than the promoters of state policies, but administrative bodies that are to develop on an autonomous basis the role of the municipal sector as a service provider, community developer and authority operator. By also stressing the local government, we point to the responsibility for developing the municipality as the democratic arena and the importance of active participation. The majority of elected bodies in the new municipal law have also developed a model that differs from the legislative committee and from the government. We believe it is important, from the centre, that we refer to the governments, councils and selections chosen by elected bodies by the People's Party. In addition, representatives shall be chosen from among staff members or from organisations and interest groups. These are not elected to the public and do not represent the politically elected governing bodies, but are part of the governance through tripartite cooperation between politicians, administrations and employees, or in the participation body such as the Senior Council, advice for persons with disabilities or youth councils. In the case of the Youth Council, the majority would like to see the establishment of this legal framework, but would stress that there should be freedom to what form the Youth Council should take — as a sample, or as a sample, for example. the municipal administration of young people. That is why it would be a good idea to go a bit far when the case rapporteur thought that this was an argument for further municipal reform. On the part of the Centre Party, we welcome the clarification that the Presidency model is underlined as the main model in new municipal law. There is now a requirement for a two-thirds majority to introduce parliamentaryism as a form of governance. We must recognise that we have not fully achieved the objective of gender balance in municipal bodies. The Municipal Law Committee went in to relate the gender balance requirement to the composition of the body as a whole. The majority believe that this would lead to the set aside of proportionate representations between the batches and therefore considers that the current rules on appointment should be continued. The parties have a great responsibility to contribute to better gender distribution, and over time they have demonstrated their ability to do so. Today’s legal formulation ‘as far as possible’ does not mean that the parties can ignore their responsibility for equality even in terms of elections to political positions. The proposal for a new municipal law contributes to an important clean-up by bringing together the internal control provisions which have been scattered through sectoral legislation into the municipal law. This does not mean that the importance of the internal control provisions is changed or weakened, but rather that they are brought together and create greater predictability and transparency for those who are set to follow them. State supervision will continue to be responsible for monitoring compliance with internal control requirements in municipal activities. In one area, exceptions are made to the draft law of the government. It is proposed that the internal control provisions in the health and care sector remain subject to specific legislation. The centre party considers that this is not appropriate and suggests that it be included in the municipal law in the same way as for other sectors. The audit of municipalities is an important part of the local authority’s own control. Municipalities and counties decide whether to hire their own auditors, whether to participate in inter-municipal cooperation or to conclude agreements with audit firms. The majority of the Committee emphasises that new law on statutory auditors should not prevent municipal auditors from auditing municipal consolidated accounts which also include limited liability companies in which the municipality owns the majority. The Central Party, together with the majority of the Committee, also promotes a proposal requesting that the Audit Act be amended in such a way as to make practices from municipal audit and private audit equivalent in terms of approval as state-authorised and registered auditors. This could reinforce the audit process. I am therefore addressing the proposals that have been made by the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e293	The representative Willfred Nordlund has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e299	I too would like to thank the Committee and the Committee Secretary for their work on this major issue. It has been encouraging to see that it has been possible to make positive changes during the examination of the Committee. There's a broad consensus on most things. Many have been up and talking about transparency as an important principle in democracy. Therefore, SV believes that not only the government of the people, but also openness should be included in the purpose paragraph. We have made proposals on this, but will of course subsidiaryly support the proposal where the People's Government has been included. But I would encourage the Storting to look at the bill where openness is inside, because that's important. We have also been told that the Public Health Act will apply in all bodies, including where the rapporteur appoints a selection. We're happy about that. Finally, SV has been made aware of the need for all municipalities to have a youth council or a youth participation body. We're very happy about that. And there's no argument for a community merger that we're going to have it! This will be done by the municipalities. It's positive – you have to think of this as positive. This is part of inviting new generations into the work of democracy, and that's what we want to do. SV also promotes NOU 2016 proposal:4 on legislative changes related to better gender balance. I've been elected to the local government for four periods and know all about what it's like for women to be quotad both here and there – even in the Progress Party, even, because they lacked women. We need to make changes in the system to better maintain gender balance than we do today. Therefore, we promote the proposal of the NOU, which states that in the case of samples, it is that if ‘one gender is under-represented in the body as a whole, candidates from the under-represented gender should move up on the list that has received the most votes’. It'll make there more women. It's going to be more balanced. It's been investigated in the NOU, so it's a bill that's well justified there. Then it is good that it is legislated that there should be compensation for elected representatives who have policies as their main concern. But SV, like the majority, believes that there is no reason to say that there should be follow-up pay schemes that are better than for ordinary workers. That's what we're proposing now. SV believes that municipalities should have the possibility of reimbursement from the public interest for such expenditure, in line with what they have for their own employees. It is also important to look at the arrangements for, for example: disabled persons and those receiving social assistance. There are people we really need to have represented in local politics, because they live in a reality that must have their spokespersons in political forums. They have financial arrangements that make them at risk of benefits being earned because of meeting allowances, which others get at the top. There's an injustice that makes someone out of it. One of the topics that SV has been most concerned about is transparency and control when the municipality issues important tasks in response to tenders. There is an improvement in this law, namely that the control committee is given transparency — what is called administrative control over such services. But it is – and it has been revealed many times now – that the cash flows in these companies can be quite large and can go out of the company and not to the services that they have contracted for them to do. They can comply with the law – everything can be in order with the administrative control. We have recent examples from kindergartens in Oslo, where one kindergarten had transferred to another company over 5 million. NOK of the money that was allocated to the kindergarten. What we want to do in this case is to provide the municipalities with insight into these cash flows, so that they can follow that the money they are responsible for and have granted goes for the purpose. They have a responsibility to manage the money, and they have a responsibility to ensure that the tasks are carried out, so that the citizens get the services they need. Then I come to the last point: the internal control rule. SV is for it to be in the municipal law, but we strongly warn against weakening the internal control provisions otherwise, so that the rights of citizens are weakened. I want to include the suggestions in the setting that SV has on its own.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e320	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e325	First, a small correction of the position of your own party. In § 18-3, which relates to the election of the representation of intercommunal companies, the Christian People's Party primarily votes for our proposal and subsidiary for the proposal of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV. Then I have another position correction. This is a clarification that I have discovered in the cooling water of the municipal law itself, so we choose to go into the Workers' Party, the Center Party and SV's proposal that the audit law should be amended, so that practices from municipal and private audit are similar in terms of approval as state-authorised and registered accountant. Of course, this must come as a matter of its own to Stortinget. This concerns the proposal for Decision B VI. Then to the law itself. After 18 years as rapporteur, I have some sympathy, but also a certain portion of the opposite, for the municipal law. It might be a little bit nerdy, but in that case I'm not the only nerdy here on the house. The municipal law committee, the government and, finally, the committee have done a good job of producing a good law that, for all purposes, is more easily understood and leniency than the previous one, and it is good. This law regulates much of the vital interaction between actors and services out there. The law will help to strengthen local democracy, to bring appropriate decisions to the attention of those concerned, with good opportunities for transparency and participation. We have fought for that democracy for a long time, and it is our task to facilitate that today's young and future generations should have at least as good a premise as we do. We've cleared up a little bit of what was going to be a challenge with the definition of elected bodies. Actually, it defines itself. Those chosen by the people have a different role than those appointed to represent a group, an interest or similar. We've been fighting in several cases in this room for the last few years for the Youth Council to be legalised, such as the elderly council and advice for the disabled. It is nice that today it comes into place in the law. Increased youth participation is important for those who are young to have an arena to be heard, and it is also a great training venue for community participation. The rapporteur's role is strengthened by the law, but I think it is well balanced against the fact that in Norwegian political tradition we do not give too much power to individuals. It is appropriate that the rapporteur be given the right to speak and to put forward proposals in the rapporteur's selection. It is also possible for the rapporteur to set up ad hoc elections. It is also clear that provision is made for the rapporteur to be suspended if he/she is regarded as unfit and 90 pst. such a decision is supported by the Local Council. This could be done, for example, by: be subject to offences that undermine the trust of the top political leader of the municipality. It has been important for us to ensure that members and alternate members of the local government or county council remain eligible for election to the board of intercommunal companies. We are pleased that a joint committee has corrected the government on this point. Something else would have restricted the action space of the municipalities and would not have been appropriate. Any dual role issue can be addressed by the Stability Regulation. It is also cleared in health and social rights for elected members of municipalities and county councils. That's right, and that's decent. We also support the proposal that municipalities with an accumulated additional consumption of more than 3 pst. the revenue comes from the much-mentioned ROBEK system, but it clarifies, generally speaking, that it must be allowed to use the head if this is due to short-term, unforeseen events. With this I will promote the proposal to the Christian People's Party with the corrections mentioned above.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e344	The representative Torhild Bransdal has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e349	As others have pointed out, it has been 26 years since last time the Stortinget dealt with the municipal law of today, in 1992, and it is therefore a great pleasure to be allowed to submit proposals for a new municipal law. The foundation of municipal autonomy and the municipalities as independent level of government was already laid in the presidential laws of 1837. It is an important and proud tradition that we are now continuing to propose the adoption of a new municipal law. I am pleased that the committee has largely concluded up on the proposals in the proposal. That there is a broad political consensus on the main features of the law is a clear strength. I would also like to thank the Committee very much, which has worked hard to put the matter in place and have it discussed before the summer. That's very good. The municipal law is used by many. It is a framework law for all municipal activities. It is important that it is accessible and easy to practice. When the law is clear and clear, it is also easier to comply. I think we're getting fewer mistakes in Kommune-Norway in the future. The rootstock of today's municipal law is continued. This is in line with the recommendations of the Local Law Committee and what the hearing bodies reported back. But we are proposing important changes, additions and adjustments. One of the most important additions is the legalisation of municipal autonomy. In 2012, the Municipal and Management Committee of the Stortinge asked for a comprehensive review of the municipal law to strengthen municipal autonomy. I believe this bill will do just that. Firstly, we propose to include municipal autonomy in the purpose paragraph of the law. Secondly, we propose to legislate municipal autonomy in a new and separate provision. This applies to both the key elements of self-government and its framework. Thirdly, we propose principles for the relationship between national authorities and municipal autonomy. It is important that national authorities take into account local self-government when developing policies towards the local government sector. These principles that we now want to legislate are just contributing to this. I am very pleased that the committee has joined this legal strengthening of municipal autonomy. In 1992, the municipalities received a high degree of freedom of organisation when the municipal law of today was passed, and the municipalities handle it well. Our generalist principle implies that all municipalities are responsible for the same tasks and services, but it must be up to the municipalities themselves to decide how they organise to perform tasks and provide services. We therefore continue today's wide access for the municipalities to choose the organisation themselves. While there should be a high degree of freedom of organisation, there are other considerations to be taken into account. A simple and tidy structure of which elected bodies can be established in a municipality is also included in the government's legislative proposals. I note that the Committee has a somewhat different approach to this issue and has proposed to redefine some bodies from ‘publicly elected bodies’ to ‘other municipal bodies’. It is not essential, on my part, to hold on to the fact that all these bodies should be defined as elected representatives, the important thing for me is that all these bodies, whether called elected or municipal, are legally municipal, collegial bodies such as, among other things. obligations to comply with the rules of procedure laid down in the Local Government Act. It is important for the legitimacy of the municipality that the rules on convocation, public meeting and meeting book apply to all collegiate bodies. It is good that the Committee's proposals clarify this. We suggest that elected representatives who have worked as their main jobs should have the same right to welfare as employees in municipalities. In the new municipal law, we therefore propose an obligation for municipalities to provide rules to ensure the elected maternity leave and parental leave, and we propose an obligation for the municipality to ensure that these elected representatives have the same entitlement to sickness benefits as employees in the municipality. I am pleased that the Committee joins these proposals. Good framework conditions are important for recruiting local politicians. I also hope that it can be a contribution to increasing the proportion of women in the top yards in the municipality. Municipalities provide important welfare services to all and have important tasks as authorities. The municipality manages significant sums of money that are Community funds. In order to maintain the confidence of citizens and national authorities, the municipality must have good governance and control over its own activities. It is essential for the provision of good services and the administration of the authority they are given to the citizens. We want a new municipal law to facilitate even better control and to facilitate that municipalities can have good governance and good self-control. It is a very, very long and thorough work that is now completed and that is about to be completed through today's processing of the bill. I believe the result is good and important for the whole municipality of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e372	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e377	Why does the Council of State not want to legislate on youth councils or another youth participation body as a minimum in municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e382	Let me stress that we are all for young people to participate in and influence municipal policy. The question is whether we are going to legislate everything we are for and prohibit everything we are against. And where does the boundary of municipal autonomy go? We have 422 municipalities in Norway – in my opinion too many – which means that we have 422 ways to involve young people. Here, there is simply a balance between what we are going to legislate, and what we are going to have confidence that the municipalities themselves are doing. And over 90 pst. of the municipalities have youth councils and have chosen that form without we having legalized it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e387	It was not an answer to why one does not want to legislate youth councils. After all, the provision for a separate advice for the elderly, which is a group that already exists, for example. has the right to vote and must be said to have significantly greater access to resources to manage their interests than children and young people have. In view of this, one can argue that there should have been minimum legal requirements on youth councils rather than continuing the requirement for older people. I think it is good that we continue to demand an elderly council, but what is it that makes you pull the line and say that it is okay to continue that requirement for older people, but not want to introduce a similar requirement for a group that needs more legal access to influence decisions in the municipality? What was the Council of State weighing so much more heavily that the Youth Council ended up on the outside of the line?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e396	I totally disagree — I answered the question to the highest degree. The difference between the representative and me is that I am confident that the municipalities will set this up. We have wise municipal politicians who want to take youth seriously, and over 90 pst. have youth councils without the Storting having to legislate. It just means that if we don't legislate even more, don't impose even more, the municipalities themselves can arrange this the way they think is wise.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e403	It is positive that the new municipal law should also include internal control provisions which are currently contained in specific legislation. It is more difficult to understand that exemptions should be made for the health and care sectors. While this will not weaken the requirement for internal control, it will make it easier and more transparent for the local authorities to follow up, the role of the supervisory authorities will be the same as in the past. In the hearing, the Central Association of Municipalities stressed that the processes of transposing internal control provisions into the municipal law must be carried out in parallel with their withdrawal from sectoral legislation and that this work should be carried out when the new municipal law enters into force by 2020. Can the Council of State promise all the municipalities in Norway, who have actually asked for this, that this will happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e409	In parallel with today's adoption of a new law, we're working on the consequences of new law, but we have to have a law decision here in Stortinget before we can actually start that work. We do that work immediately, and we are all well-deserved that it is in place when the law comes into force on 1 January. So I promise to work with as best I can.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e414	The Council of State said in its statement that municipalities manage significant sums of tax revenue, and that it is important to create confidence that that money is spent wisely and in a good way. There is an SV very much in agreement. But we know that there is a risk of increasing the use of tenders, of which the Council of State is a member, and that the municipality loses control of the cash flows resulting from the companies that are agreed upon, that the money is not necessarily used for the task that is the object, who is now involved: kindergarten, care for the elderly, or anything else. The Council of State considers that this should only be monitored, but why does the Council of State consider that it is not necessary to monitor the flow of money, as state regulators do?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e419	The representative is absolutely right, I'm very competitive, it sharpens the municipality, and it sharpens the offer to the users. It's my experience as a municipal politician. I am also in favour of tenders, I think it is good for the users. I'm for freedom of choice, I think it's good for the users. So I believe it is important that we today legislate the municipality's right to have access to businesses with which it has an agreement, in terms of the agreement and its scope. The mandate of the representative is to give the municipality increased responsibilities as supervisory authority beyond the scope of the contract. I believe that it is unforgiving to have in the municipal law. We have other supervisory authorities that have these tasks, and that carry them out on behalf of the municipality and state. Therefore, we want to limit this to the local authority agreement. Of course, it has to be possible to follow up, you have to have insight into it, but not beyond that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e426	I am at least pleased that the Council of State confirms that this can be an area where abuse of public funds can actually happen. That is an important recognition that we can agree with. But it's very strange, SV thinks that whoever is going to write such a contract and is actually responsible for the money being spent wisely, should not have insight into how the cash flows are going. We know that there's huge sums from some of these companies. There is no very reasonable case either to levy taxes on or to grant money to. It's no use. I hope the Council of State does not believe that we should pay taxes to secure such cash flows – they should not leave these companies. So what is the reason why these state bodies are to be overseen, and not the municipalities themselves, which are responsible?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e431	First, I have to say that when government bodies have supervisory powers, they also have to deal with the local government sector. We don't have to double the number of supervisory authorities. Work against social dumping, against undeclared work, etc. is in the hands of the government, and works against both the private and the public sectors. But, as the representative knows, there is freedom of agreement between municipalities and private actors. You can make agreements between them that ensure greater transparency if you want. It is up to the individual contract to decide. But the general thing we legislate here is a general access, independent contract, to be able to enter into and review the content of the contract, and that must be the purpose of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e438	The representative Trellevik had one of the funniest arguments for the municipal merger I've heard for a long time, and it was that when we introduce the youth council, it will force new municipal mergers, because some municipalities will not be able to meet the requirement of a youth council. Can the Council of State give me examples of some municipalities that will not be able to meet the requirement of a youth participation body?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e443	I can confirm to the representative that municipalities are not able to obtain employees for the protection of children, are not able to get employees to do planning work, are not able to obtain completely elementary skills to provide services to the citizens. It worries me a lot. The municipal map we have concerns me more and more for every day I travel around Norway. Municipalities can adjust in different ways. I believe that the municipalities, regardless of their size, are able to get good advice and help from young people – regardless of their size, let me just underline it. However, local authorities face major challenges in obtaining the right skills for appropriate services, and this is a major challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e450	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e457	Youth participation is important to our democracy. That is the broad political agreement. Therefore, good and active youth councils are currently available in most municipalities and county municipalities. But the right disagrees with the majority position to oblige municipalities to establish youth councils by law. The background to the proposal for a new municipal law is the desire to strengthen municipal autonomy. Formalising youth councils will help reduce local freedom and create challenges for the smallest municipalities. Regrettably, recruitment and participation in this type of participation are difficult to find more places in the country. But the answer to that can't be saying, If you don't want to, you have to. Our responsibility must be to pursue a policy that increases social exposure, allows municipalities to adapt participation to local conditions, and that ensures that youth impact work is exciting. Right thinks that those who know best how to increase the involvement of young people are those who are already active in the community. It is the younger politicians who make choices for the first time, with youth fresh in mind, the football coach who sits on the municipal board, and it is the local politicians who have children of their own in the youth environments. Youth participation will be an important issue, regardless of what decisions we take here today. Right, society thinks it's best built from below and up, and our job is to make sure that the municipalities have what they need to engage young people. For most municipalities, the Youth Council is a good tool for doing so. That's what we're talking about, and local right-wing politicians have gone ahead. That's the way it's going to be in the next parliamentary term. We promise to be ready with a number of candidates who have children and young people as their heart cause and who are fighting for youth participation. That's going to be right because we mean it right and important, not because we have to. The fact that a small minority of municipalities have not set up youth councils has different reasons, but it does not have to mean that the youth is not heard. We are dealing with the proposal for a new municipal law because we want to strengthen municipal autonomy. We should then avoid adopting proposals which, in reality, contribute to the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e472	The Committee agrees with the government that municipalities should have a great deal of freedom to establish the bodies they need and a great deal of freedom to organise their activities as they wish. However, with regard to who can represent the municipalities in what is established by municipal or intermunicipal companies, the Committee disagrees with the Ministry and the Municipal Law Committee. We do not support the proposal that members and alternate members of local government or county councils should not be eligible for election to governors of municipal or county councils. It would give the municipalities and the counties much less space for action than what is under the law of the day, and it would be a restriction of municipal autonomy. This should not be the case when we are now attaching purpose precisely to municipal autonomy. The government refers to the fact that a politician should not be given a double role by being a member of the board of an undertaking that reports to and is to be controlled by elected municipal or county authorities. The Committee considers such a double role to be well managed by the Stability Regulation, which should of course be followed. I believe it is important that the board members of companies and intercommunal companies have the municipal shoes on. They must know the priorities and objectives of the municipalities for their activities. People may be elected outside the elected bodies, but it would not be wise to exclude elected politicians from this type of office. The proposal of the Municipal Law Committee to remove the Council’s title has not been implemented by the Committee. The Committee considers that it should be up to the municipalities and counties to use the title of adviser or municipal/communist director as the title of senior administrative director. Personally, I would warn against rejecting the councillor's title. It's a well-informed concept, and I think the many female advisers that we fortunately have do not experience the title as particularly gender discriminating. We have other incorporated titles, such as the midwife and the county wife, etc., which also do not exclude anyone from those positions. The directorship is divided into general government. I don't think it's a good development, but it's mostly about bringing in designations that are incorporated into the private sector, and I don't see the point. The centre party is pleased that the legislation of the local government on the rights of elected representatives to benefits under pay and sickness is now being incorporated into the municipal law. Those who have worked as their main occupation shall have the same welfare benefits as employees. A provision is also introduced to compensate elected representatives who have mainly had their principal income through their employment. The Government and Government Parties consider that there should be a six-month application for compensation. The central party believes that local authorities should lay down rules for back-up compensation in such a way that it is the same in length as the general period of notice.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e489	You can see the municipal law as the municipality's own constitution. It provides the framework for both self-government and the rule of the people. A living democracy depends entirely on changing over time. That is why it was high time you got a new law. One of the important things that the law is discussing, and that the committee has been concerned about, is related to transparency. This law extends the information obligation for municipalities, so that it covers all municipal activities, regardless of where they are organised. An overall committee has also highlighted that transparency and information on political processes are an important principle in a democracy. I think it is absolutely essential that the question now be asked in Kommune-Norway: What does that mean in 2018? The ratio of individual citizens to information and the expectations of being involved and participating in processes have changed significantly. I believe that the municipalities should put forth effort and facilitate the live distribution of the meetings of the local government, for example. It's not a point to legislate it, but for me it's important to say from the pulpit of the Storting that I think it's an expectation many people have. A lot of people are already doing it. Some have chosen not to do so for different reasons. Maybe they should think about whether they can do it. How are documents and decision-making bases made available to citizens in a modern way? How do you organise decision-making processes, so that citizens are actually both informed and able to participate and involve themselves? These issues should be discussed by the new local government and county councils immediately after the 2019 elections. I am particularly concerned about the ability of children and young people to participate. Children and young people in 2018 are enlightened people. They are informed and often very responsible — perhaps in contrast to how many of us in this room were when we were so young. Therefore, I do not buy the argument that the reason why we are not going to legislate a minimum requirement for organs for children and the participation of young people is that it is an intervention in local self-government. This law has a lot of provisions that are an intervention, limiting municipal autonomy. With regard to the group that does not have the right to vote and which has the smallest resources to care for its own interests, we use the argument that it is not important enough to intervene, while in a wide range of other areas we actually limit the local authorities' own organisational capacity. I don't buy that argument. I believe the government parties have drawn the line on the wrong side. I'm glad there's a majority in the hall to do something else. I expect the Council of State to follow up on the regulatory work that follows this law. Let me use the last few seconds to say thank you to the Council of State, which has put the welfare goods and rewards of the elected people on the map. It's an important job.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e505	In Oslo it sucks of local involvement in all the city councils of our 15 districts. By direct elections, the city’s citizens have the opportunity to vote their candidates locally in the districts. That's why the composition of the lots is different in all of the 15 districts. The city councils are responsible for a large budget with a task portfolio that means a lot to people where they live. One example is Citydel Alna with almost 50,000 inhabitants – it has a budget of almost 2 billion. NOK and 1700 dedicated employees. There are local politicians, among others. through local priorities ensuring full midwife and health oyster coverage in the district. There are local priorities that make them the best in the city and make a difference for the small children’s parents in the district. Having a local politician with whom to talk local matters is of great importance – also in Oslo. I cheer on all those who do a lot of volunteer work to create good, safe neighborhoods in our city. Their policy efforts mean a lot. In new municipal law, the State Council proposes that Malta limit the possibility of urban selections to appoint sub-committees, as it is today. Fortunately, we have cleared this up in the committee. We should be grateful for all the local politicians who give of their leisure time to improve their community. And we who are so lucky to do this full-time shouldn't create unnecessary obstacles to local involvement and local involvement. That's why I'm incredibly happy with the majority we've created in the committee, which is opening up to continue organizing the urban committees with subcommittees, so that the elected people in the neighbourhoods can work for the things they're burning for, for the best for those who live in their neighborhoods.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e516	I have to follow up on the matter of the Youth Council. I fully agree with the arguments put forward by Mr Sivertsen of the Workers' Party. I think it's very strange arguments that come up against us going to the senior council and advice for people with disabilities. It has been there and fought, but we have been very critical that the government also says that it can be one and the same advice. No, it can't, because it's people with completely different needs. There are many people with disabilities who are young and who do not have the same desires in life as the elderly. But youth is the group that lacks income and voting rights and is completely dependent on municipal services. So it's in the municipality's interest that this happens. Now we also say that we will make a municipal law where we will have more involvement. This is about facilitating more participation — more involvement in democracy in the future. So this is just positive, and it's very strange that you have problems with this group. So to this is about transparency, and not supervision of, outsourced services. There is no supervision in the sense that there are State supervisory tasks SV is talking about. We are talking about the fact that if you enter into a contract to manage taxpayers' money and perform statutory tasks, you have to have transparency in following the cash flows, so that the money is used for what you have written a contract about. It is important to have the administrative control that is now in place. SV is happy about it; it's good that it's like this. But it's missing a bit. And experience shows that this is absolutely necessary. I hope that the transparency that is now being given could have prevented some of the scandals that we have seen, for example. related to renovation, that of course the conclusion of the contract should have seen that this did not meet the objectives at all. But you have to be able to follow these cash flows, because it's business. And it's okay that it's business, but then you also have to deal with it like that, and realize that then you're going to move money in a way that maximizes your profits. SV does not want this, but the government wants it, so I think it is nice now to repeat so forcefully, even in the context of the local economy, that it is important that we manage taxpayers' money properly. It could not be a good purpose for us to invite people to pay taxes so that the money can disappear, for example. to companies that create structures with many strange subsidiaries, which eventually end up in some tax haven, and do not even participate in this fissure layer from which they collect their money.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e529	The municipal law is an important law. It is the law that specifies how municipalities can develop good communities and how citizens should have their own autonomy and government. In this context, it is almost amazing to see that today we are spending most of our time discussing whether to legislate something that is basically the practice of all, most of the municipalities, namely to have a participation body for young people. I guess the youth, if they had heard this discussion here today, would have said: Serr – where have we come today? For the Central Party, this is about wanting to have a strong local democracy, and I'm very happy that the majority in this Chamber sees this and actually agrees that we are now going to get legalized something that is basically practice. And if that's how the government is unusually concerned that there will be 422 different ways to organise the participation body for young people, they have access to regulate this in regulation. In addition, the Government Parties may vote in favour of the request to draw up national guidelines to ensure that young people are heard and how to promote their views. Some of the representatives were involved in the discussion on remuneration. I think I'm going to say so much as that for the Center Party, it's about wanting to warn you that someone is going to take care of extraordinary, good arrangements. That was, in so far as a debate was concerned, when we talked about government wage policy, and that is probably a debate that will come back later. But when you make sure that after-compensation becomes an opportunity for those who have had policies as a full-time job, you decide that there should be a certain security if you have to go off and have no other job to go to. It is, in fact, in line with having a period of notice and is, by the majority of the Committee, something that can be accepted and considered reasonable — while the Government Party's proposal to go to six months, in the view of the Centre Party, must be regarded as unfair when it comes to what other workers have to do. There were several people who were aware that it is important that the employees of the administration and the elected representatives cooperate. If there's something this government has been busy about, then it's tripartite cooperation. The Prime Minister has stood in this room and boasted of it. It is therefore amazing that the government does not want to be involved in the investigation of how employee representation in the task community is to be resolved. It should be believed that if you wanted a task community to solve major challenges across municipalities, employees' rights should also be respected. I record that the government parties do not.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e540	It is good that the Stortinget today is largely in agreement with the government's proposal on the new municipal law. It'll be easier to find out for people, elected people and administration. But in this case, we are also discussing the financial arrangements to be applied in municipalities and county municipalities. It's not new to me that the Workers' Party in particular is waving on major political issues for the time being, but it surprises me how much it really is possible to wing when it comes to remuneration for politicians or people who have policies as their main occupation. In 2016, the Workers' Party first believed that politicians sitting on the Stortinget should be entitled to two years' remuneration, while in this case they cut the right to receive a refund for people who have policies such as full-time employment, down to three months. It should also prove that the Workers' Party's vote on two years' remuneration for large-scale representatives was a so-called work accident, so the Workers' Party joined an opportunity for one year's remuneration for large-scale representatives. But for the Workers' Party, the apparent difference between those who are full-time on the Stortinget and those who are full-time in municipalities and county councils is that a municipal politician should never have access to more than three months' pay, versus politicians on the Stortinget, who should thus have access to one year's remuneration. As an elected representative, you have no notice period, and you do not have any protection. You can lose your job, or work, overnight. Of course, that's the way it should be, but that many people can stay without income overnight and have no opportunity to get a new job, can also raise the threshold because people want to take on elected positions. For this reason, the government and the Right feel that it is quite reasonable that it should be possible to have a six-year follow-up scheme for politicians at the local level who have had policies as their full-time jobs. Nor is it a very abnormal scheme for many in the private sector. It would have been better if we today adopted a clear rule that the municipalities had the opportunity to give half a year's remuneration, versus a little vague provision for a general notice period.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e551	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e567	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e576	I would first like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in the work on the committee's suspension. It's been a hectic spring. We probably didn't quite agree, but it usually gets like this when political issues are to be resolved from different points of view. I believe that the work on the government's regional reform does not deserve the character 'passed'. In all the target formulations of the reform, there has been talk of listening to the counties and stimulating good regional processes. However, it has largely ended up ignoring the advice given by the states themselves, because they do not comply with the conclusions reached by the government before inviting the states to cooperate. The merger of the counties was carried out with a few exceptions, and now the Stortinget is invited to determine the names of the new counties without any pre-work to ensure that conclusions are consistent. It is particularly problematic in the West, where four counties are involved, but where the department has found a solution that only two of the counties accept. The name of the counties is something that should be prepared so well that both the professional authorities and the regions concerned have been involved in the process and not least have been told. The government's proposals have not been sent to the general hearing, as requested by the study guide, and the Language Council has not been given the opportunity to participate in all the preparations for the cases, as they should have been perfectly clear. I noticed that the Council of State in Stortinget on 25 April, during the oral question procedure, indicated that the department has listened primarily to the people involved. She referred to the counties that have dealt with the name question for the county they are to enter. The Municipal and Administrative Committee has also had to listen to the unsolicited counties, such as Rogaland and More and Romesdal. These are the counties involved since they form part of the Western region, which now react strongly to the annexation of the name by the merged state of Hordaland and Sogn and the Fjordane, with the exception of the last two letters. It changes very little. There is not a good enough job done by the government in this matter. That is why we propose that the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV, i.e. the majority of the committee, send the matter back to the government. We ask that the government obtain an overall assessment from the Language Council, which is the government's own expert body, and then send the matter to a general hearing, in accordance with the investigation manual, before the matter is brought before the Stortinget for final consideration. There are very many of the members of the government parties and – in so far as – the State Secretaries who have respected the investigation instructions in the last few months. But in this case you do not choose to follow it. This is, on the part of the majority of the Committee, to ask for an ordinary procedure in a case leading to a decision which is important to many and which will have an impact in the long term. With this, I recommend the Committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e598	When the Stortinget dealt with the regional reform, the Workers' Party voted against the coercion of counties. In addition, by means of several representative proposals before Christmas last year, we tried to reverse the coercive mergers, but again the majority of people voted against our proposals and ignored local wishes. Through it, the government parties and the others who have voted against it have taken on a great responsibility for the processes that are now going on in those states. Many believe that this is a simple matter and that names are just names. But name is so much more than name. It's both cultural history and not least an identity marker. That's why it takes a lot of people. Names are not often replaced; they should in principle remain forever. We have been critical of the process that the government has set up. Not anchoring the starting point for such important decisions in a professional assessment we believe is a major weakness in the process. The Ministry has correctly asked the Language Council to consider the names issue in several counties, but the municipalities concerned have asked for the opinion of the Language Council before the county has taken its decision on the name issue. Clearly, there would have been an advantage if the Language Council had been given the opportunity to make representations to the county councils at an earlier stage, so that those assessments could also be included in regional treatment. It would also give a better anchoring. Despite the fact that there has been a debate on county names, it would give an even better anchoring of an important question if one had taken the time to send the question out at an ordinary hearing. The choice of county names is not limited to the counties covered by the merger decisions. This also applies to surrounding states and, to some extent, to others in the country. The discussion on the need to rewrite the song ‘Å Vestland, Vestland’, since it is then limited to dealing with only one county, is a bit of a humorous introduction to that question. What's good here is that we're getting an official Sami name for Trondelag County. That's good, because the Norwegian state is based on the territory of two people. I would like to take this opportunity to encourage the other municipalities that have a significant Sami population to set up the necessary processes to get the Stortinge to legislate a Sami name for their counties.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e613	It is a majority in the United Kingdom that wants us to continue to have three levels of government, and it is a majority in the United Kingdom that wants the structure of the counties we have to be different from what it is today. This is also the background to the two-fold decision taken by the Stortinget on a new regional structure, where we go from 19 counties to 11 regions. The structure improves the capacity of the county councils to fulfil their role as a social developer, and the new county councils will have better conditions in order to be able to undertake more tasks. It is also a debate we are going to follow in the future. These new regions are working together. For many, more cultures and organisations must be merged into one. An important part of that work is building a common identity. Here, of course, the name chosen by the states will be relevant. When we decide on the names of the counties, yes, I believe that we should place the decisive emphasis on the names of the counties themselves. To listen to those who are closest to the decisions is what the government has done when it has proposed a name for the Storting. There are mutual decisions in elected bodies about the new names in all the counties, except Finnmark. There has been a broad debate on the new county names, and the counties have spent time discussing and taking the decisions they have taken. It is also worth noting that when the committee had a hearing on the matter, it was not a single county council that signed up to tell them what they meant about their new name. I also trust that the local people elected around the counties have listened to the people in their own region. Now, what the opposition is really up to is that we're going to go another round, which is delaying something they really want, namely a new regional structure, where the counties are better able to provide good services to people and to the business community in their region. There is also a process from the opposition that undermines its own local politicians who have made decisions on the county name. I'm glad the opposition doesn't get a majority for this today. Now we must continue to work on building new, more sustainable regions that can provide good services to people. And if I can end by saying, if the Workers' Party is concerned about anchoring, I would think the best thing to do was to listen to their own local politicians. With this, I will deal with the proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e632	The representative Mari Holm Lønseth has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e637	Names are important for building new culture and bringing together the new county municipalities. Postponing the choice of names could delay parts of the cultural construction. Many are already using the new name they themselves have adopted. I have personally contacted our group leaders in affected counties. The feedback has been clear: the processes are generally perceived as good. The names are experienced as being quite right to very good. Everyone has voted in favour, and everyone wants the Progress Party here on the Stortinget to vote in favour. Listening to our own has been the most important thing for us in this matter, and we do not find that the counter-arguments that came during the hearing defend neither a postponement nor a total overrun of those most affected by these new names.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e646	SV also voted against the coercion of counties. We believe in principle that you should first have decided which problems to solve, then see how much space or how many people you should have to solve these problems. You've started at the wrong end, and you've ended up with some very strange units. What we're discussing today is what these children are called. I come from one of the states being coerced – Hedmark. It shall be merged with Uppland County and, for some strange reason, not called Hedmark and Uppland, in the same way that some of the other counties have been allowed to keep their names. I actually know that I'm pretty sorry about this. It shall be called the Inland. I guess that's the rest of the rest of the world. That's a very strange name. A lot of people use it, but it's weird. I don't think anyone calls themselves residents of these states. As others have said here, names are often identity. One of the things we now see in some of these states is that they manage to gather when they get to keep their name, or where they have a common identity, like that. in trøndelag and in Agder. But in the other counties, they don't have it. In the Week – are they “weeks”? I don't know what to be. There is no common identity. That's why it's so important to deal with these names, that at least you go through proper laps, so maybe you get some names that could have given some kind of common identity, so that people could have felt a little trapped that this is me -- this is mine. I think the government overlooks this. They say who is involved in this matter. In any case, with regard to some of these names — perhaps especially the merger of Hordaland and Sogn and Fjordane — it is clear that neighbouring countries are involved in the use of the terms ‘Westland’ and ‘Westland’. It also shows the linguistic confusion in this case when you end up with the Inland but the West. It's a little consistent. Here's the other person involved in this name usage. It's like we're going to call Hedmark and Uppland East. I think a lot of people would have protested about it. I fully agree that the new state, which I had hoped should be called Hedmark and Oppland, should also have a Sami name.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e659	I am pleased that the counties have now come up with new county names, after good processes in the county councils. But I'm a little surprised that some people in some cases want to completely override what the states themselves think. One should listen more to the neighbors. I understand, of course, that some names may be debated, but the representative Andersen, who was here on the platform instead, will override the two district councils in Hedmark and Oppland. Of course, we could have found more names here in this room, but this is really participation. In the next breath, you choose to criticize it. I must say I'm surprised. I am surprised and have to say that this is trying a rematch if it has been lost in two rounds. I really thought we were going to let the new county councils decide their own names. I must say this is surprising. The left will in any case vote in favour of the proposal of the minority in the Committee, consisting of the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, with the divisions that lie there. I do not disagree with the representative Sivertsen that a person would like to see if it is natural with Sami names, as it was done for Tøndelag. I have to ask -- in terms of what more from the opposition here say, that this is coercion: is it coerced every time the Storting makes a majority decision in this room? It was quite clear what were the processes around the states: we were going to draw up the lines if there wasn't a local consensus. It's not about coercion; it's about the governing rights of the Stortinget. A user expression as anchor. ‘Advertisers’ I use a lot of things other than that we make important decisions in a democratic body. I react to a divisive language, but it is clearly quite conscious – a desire to have a divisive language so that this is not carried out in a good way. I think that's remarkable.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e670	For me it is important already at the beginning of my post to say that this matter should have been sent out to the hearing before a decision was taken. It has not been done, but there has been consultation in the committee where all those who have an opinion on the matter had the opportunity to come and present their views. However, I do not vote to send the matter back. This is a matter that arouses and has aroused some emotions, and when there's a lot of emotion in things, it's going to be incredibly difficult to attack, because you're going to have respect for the feelings people have. There were feelings about the treatment in my party, too, because there are strong opinions about this. But one has to cut through to the seventh and last. And why does one cut through? Yes, because this is a consequence of the last part of the regional reform. Then we can talk about the chicken and the egg and what should have been done first and last, but now we get to start today and look forward. This is a reform that the Christian People's Party has wanted to program for several major periods. The reform is now in the process of being implemented, and the reform is inexorably important for both democracy and district policy. When it comes to the appropriate governance of more populous regions than today's county, it didn't turn out exactly the way we wanted it, but we get to move on. We had a different primary view of what was appropriate breakdown in a couple of cases. It's part of the back carpet. But now we get to focus on the most important thing, and the most important thing is that we get powerful county municipalities that are large enough to take over a number of tasks from the state and subject them to popular regional governance. In most cases, the county municipalities themselves came up with appropriate names. That's what we're going to do. It's important, especially if the Storting is trying out the processes that have been in the merged states. Some of these processes have been problem-free and, in some cases, the debate has gone louder. We could have chosen more solutions, but we're following what's determined by the county councils concerned. We do not lose the momentum of governance in the reform, and we focus energy on the next stage of the reform. Yesterday, the municipal bill was set to focus on the matter when it arrives during the autumn. That is why I am in favour of the proposal of a Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e685	The Government is following up the Storting decision that from 2020 there will be 11 counties in Norway. 13 counties have been adopted combined into six new counties. The government has therefore also submitted legislative proposals on new county names for these six counties. Today there are considerable differences in county municipalities. Nine counties have fewer than 200,000 inhabitants. This will improve when the merger of county municipalities enters into force on 1 January 2020. Larger and more functional county municipalities will strengthen both local democracy and the growth power of our country. The new county municipalities have greater opportunities to be strategic community developers and have a strengthened capacity and competence to meet today’s and future tasks. The Government proposes that the six new county municipalities of the Kingdom should have the following names: Week Inland Westfold and Telemark Aggregates Westland Troms and Finnmark For Troms and Finnmark, Romsa ja Finnmárku is proposed as a Sami parallel name and Tromssa ja Finmarkku as a female parallel name. Also trombones state shall have a Sami parallel name, Trööndelage. Name selection is demanding and triggers great commitment and strong emotions. Many have had views on the proposals for new county names. There has been a long and open process of naming in all the counties concerned. There has also been a lot of media debate, and the matter has been discussed in the Questionnaire here in Stortinget. It is simply not often that a case gets so much attention both locally and nationally. Proposals for new county names have been submitted to the Language Council and the Sami names have been submitted to the Sametinget. The Language Council has an important advisory function and their justifications with alternative naming suggestions are presented in the proposal. Some of the name choices have been extra demanding, and in particular the new county municipality that will consist of today's Hordaland and Sogn and Fjordane. The county councils’ own original proposal, ‘West’, alert reactions. That's why I met all the county councils involved, including Rogaland and More and Romesdal, to discuss the matter. Hordaland and Sogn and Fjordane adjusted their names to ‘Westland’. The new county self-government must be strongly involved in such naming issues. It is the county councils that are now building something new and creating a pooling identity and culture. Then I believe that the common agreement of the county councils on the name is very important for the further merger process. I have also stressed that the county councils want the new names to be adopted as soon as possible. The majority of the committee criticises the government for not having followed the investigation guide. That's a statement I want to refute. The investigation guide contains exceptional rules for the absence of general consultation. So this has been a very open, very inclusive process, which has been going on for a long time, and which has fanned wide, both locally and centrally.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e734	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e739	The county councils are responsible for taking the initiative to define the Sami names of the counties. That responsibility is clearly defined. However, I wonder if the Council of State could be willing to take an initiative towards the county councils to encourage them to initiate the necessary processes, where it has not now happened.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e744	Yes, I think the representative had a good proposal. There are regular contact meetings between the government and the county councils, so I would like to discuss this in the kind of forum.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e749	It's created a special situation in this case by Finnmark having conducted a referendum that thus shows a massive resistance to the merger with Troms. Finnmark is asking for a new treatment of the merger, but today the Stortinget is discussing a proposal for the name of a merged state that the Finn Markings of course do not want. My question will then be whether the Council of State understands that the process she and the government are carrying out is very provocative in the light of the stated objectives, which the Council of State was also concerned with in its speech, of listening to local democracy in the work on both local reform and regional reform – and of course also in the context of name elections?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e756	I guess it's nothing more funny than that the representative Nordlund himself is very busy listening to local democracy in terms of county structure, but not in terms of name. Then he has no problem overlording the county's own choices, which have been decided upon with a great, great degree of disintegration. I can explain the government's position in this matter. We've listened to the county councils. So the Storting has chosen a different approach to structure. I understand, we need larger and stronger county municipalities, we need municipalities with competence and capacity to carry out both the tasks they have today, and not least the tasks we are going to carry out.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e763	I noticed with interest that the Council of State has now at least promised that it will transfer tasks. It's reassuring to hear, and I think the majority in this room will be delighted. Then I find it a little special that the Council of State accuses the undersigned of wanting to override local democracy when the council itself called Hordaland and Sogn and the Fjords just to override them and make them choose a new name, based on the names they had made. They had ignored the fact that several other county municipalities came under the same name as they had chosen, that is, what actually denotes a part of the country. I'm not quite able to follow the Council of State's attack on overcoming local democracy. The majority have asked for a new thorough round in which the Language Council, the government's own expert committee, is to be held before it is sent out to public hearings. The question is then: does the Council agree that the implementation of the county reform, including the names, is primarily such that the government takes on its own ambition to reduce the number of counties, and that it does not focus on the local wishes that come, among other things. from Rogaland and More and Romesdal?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e770	I understand that it may be difficult to stick with, I think many people can join in this matter. Firstly, the representative of Nordlund must not associate me with opinions I do not have. I didn't call More and Romesdal, Hordaland, Sogn and Fjordane and Rogaland to make them change their mind. I called them to have a process in which they contributed to the setting we were going to give to the Storting, where I wanted to listen to arguments for the views they had. It was simply a part of hearing the point of view. It is also such that, among other things, The representative of Nordlund's own country rapporteur in Sogn and Fjordane is very well aware of what the Language Council means. The position of the Language Council is known to all municipalities – not one of them has wanted to change its opinion after the decision of the Language Council became known. It is not going to happen whether this hall should send the names back. They have made their decisions, you can today choose to join them or try them out.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e777	That's exactly what the Council of State here is about, that the majority wants to have a new process, which the Council of State was also involved in calling in Rogaland, Hordaland, Sogn and Fjordane and More and Romsdal. It's just that getting a proper process the majority really asks for today – something the Council of State now claims not to be overarching. I still do not agree with why the Council of State believes that the majority of the committee wants to override the county municipalities. You want to get a proper process where everyone who is affected is heard in a proper way before you get a proper proposal. My last question is whether the Council of State understands the many counter-arguments that come from a number of hearing bodies on the names now being taken and that several of the representatives have been involved are problematic in many different contexts.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e784	I must be very clear: I fundamentally disagree with the representative Nordlund's description of how the process has been in this case. It's been very thorough. There are few cases where so many elected representatives have participated so widely. There are few things that have been so thoroughly discussed both locally and centrally. The representative of Nordlund can send the matter back, but you will get the same answer. And the representative Nordlund can choose to override his own party traps around the country, or choose to join them. I totally disagree that we need a new process -- we need to get a conclusion. I understand that there are a lot of opinions about this, I understand that there are a lot of feelings. It's about identity, it's strong feelings, but you actually have to make some decisions. I hope the Storting will do that today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e791	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e799	On 14 May, Finnmark held a referendum on the decision of the majority of the population to merge Finnmark and Troms. The result was that the county resistance to bundling had overwhelming support among the inhabitants of the county. 87 pst. said no to Troms and Finnmark becoming one state. County rapporteur Ragnhild Vassvik has met the Prime Minister and handed over a letter after the referendum. There she asks that the Finnish marks be respected. She responds strongly to the fact that the municipal minister has stated that the referendum does not matter at all, because the Stortinget has decided that Troms and Finnmark should be merged. This does not accept the rapporteur and says that the referendum and its outcome give her and the assembly a mandate to continue the resistance to the merger process. It's just a way out for the government, says the county rapporteur in Finnmark, to re-treat the coercion. I allow myself a powerful quote from the county rapporteur. In her letter to the Prime Minister, she said: ‘The fine marks are now so cursed that almost every solution proposed by a merger will face massive opposition in the population.’ I believe many in Finnmark, and also in Troms, find it provocative that today the Stortinge treats the name of a merged Finnmark and Troms as if nothing has happened. The majority overlook the conclusions reached by the Finnmark population. It is not useful to hide behind a decision taken by a scarcely large majority in 2017. Everyone knows that regional reform is weak, both in the affected states and here in the Stortinget. In this context, I must pay particular attention to the Christian People's Party. Several of the party's leading politicians have stated that they have little to do with the decisions they have taken, but that they have seen need to stand behind decisions on the merger of Troms and Finnmark and elsewhere because they have an agreement on it with the government. The question is, what has the party got? I think they should tell people who are now wondering why a decision has been made on the Storting against the will of both the inhabitants and the county communities, and which it also seems that perhaps is against the real will of the Storting. The regional reform was started by the government in 2015 as an invitation to neighboring talks. The counties took the next talk and told me that they found that the tasks, both old and new, could best be solved within the current structure. The names are now determined without the investigation instructions being followed, without consultation and without the involvement of the Language Council, and before the states have taken their decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e821	Actually, I don't have to say that much, most of it's said by the others -- those who want to hear what the Finnmark people say. But anyway, I can say a little bit about this, because I've been a lot involved in the process. That's right, people in Finnmark are angry. I don't think it's just about people in Finnmark, I think it's about people in Troms, too. Troms and Finnmark are great names, but individually. You don't have to merge these two states. There are giants that are large enough – that's area enough, and that's people enough. We could also have been a lot more people if we had had more work. That's where we should have put the pressure: get more work into these two states. There is a lot that needs to be done in the counties, both in terms of ports and to make the roads better, and such things. But we're going to be busy combining this with coercion. I don't think there's anyone -- there's nobody -- who wants to use coercion when you're going to put someone together. But here you do it. So many Finnmarks went and voted – 58 pst., think about it! There were old people who spent a whole day getting away to vote and prove that they would be Finnmark still. You have to have respect for what has happened, respect for what the Finnmarks show. Forced merger has no legitimacy in Finnmark. I don't have words. I think people should think a little bit about, and especially those who want to join us.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e834	The representative Holm Lønseth enters the pulpit with a longer lecture to others about listening to local democracy, about listening to local elected representatives – in this case regional elected representatives. I just have to make it clear: the representative Holm Lønseth and Right is probably not in a very good position to operate with that kind of teaching – to listen to local and regional elected representatives. On the contrary, the Right Party, in the reform of the municipality and the region, has largely run with quite large skyscrapers for its eyes and relatively well with cotton in its ears – to express it that way. At least the right has not been a representative to actively listen to regional elected representatives. Had the party been right and the representative Holm Lønseth was near to do so, they had hardly voted for these coercive mergers. Had the representative Holm Lønseth and her party listened, as they taught others to do, they had heard that, for example. Eastfold, who is now going into the fantastic construction of the Viking, which no one really wants – even right-wing representatives have shown some extraordinary joy over that decision – said no to that construction. Akershus did the same thing. The same thing happened to Buskerud. Then you can ask, where was the representative Holm Lønneth? Didn't she get the cotton out of her ears? Or what was going on? There is no need to take lessons from the government parties – now including the Left – about listening to the regional and local populace level, because there is something these three parties have thoroughly proven through the treatment of local and regional reform that they are doing the exact opposite. These parties are not listening. They run coercive mergers as if nothing has happened. They have not listened to local democracy at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e843	The name is no one, it's called, but at the same time it's important for the identity of the one who's calling the name. In a regional reform that has very little population support in some parts of the country, the name of the new counties has been and is very important to create both identity and ownership of these new counties. For Uppland County and Hedmark County – which is now agreed to be coerced – it is particularly important to ensure a good anchoring of the name selection for the new Grand County. That the name proposal that is on the table in such an important matter, has not been heard, is very critical. The name Inland is a newer construction. It has been argued that the two pillars of the two counties have now taken the name Hochskole in the Inland, but at the same time we have a high school at Gjøvik, which has been part of NTNU in Trondheim, and is then an educational institution that does not have the name of the county. The Inland Hospital is used as an argument, but it does not cover the whole of the new county, since the Health Minister moved the hospital in the Kongsvinger region into Ahus. Thus, there are no particularly powerful arguments that have been used to claim that the large state must be called the Inland – because a high school and a health care establishment have the Inland. Something else is what the opposite of the Inland should be. Are those who do not live in the country, foreigners? It will be very misleading to use this name for Uppland and Hedmark. The historical region name of these two counties – which have been one of the counties in the past – is the Upland. Military units, such as Uppland Infantry Regiment, and Opland Steamship Company, established in 1852, are still owned and operated by Skibladner at Mjösa. Another option that has been mentioned is to call it Hedmark and Uppland. We're still going to have More and Romesdal. We have Sogn and Fjordane, and it is now called Westfold and Telemark County. The representative of the left here is surprised that we did not let the new county decide the name of the new construction. Well, both Hedmark and Uppland are fighting the coup d'état. The plural – with the Left in the head – does not listen to it either, but now it is important that we listen to the new county's choice of name. The center party believes that the name of the new county needs to be anchored through a deeper process, in order to create a broad ownership of the county name. There is still time to listen to the advice of citizens and professionals through a hearing before the final name selection.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e858	I can join up to the post of Ivar Odnes from the Center Party. I've heard a lot of articles today that somehow moralize that you can have a different position than the government. But it is a reality that it is the government and the majority who have carried out coercive mergers against both the will of the county and people. The most serious thing in the matter is that both the Right Party and the Advance Party throughout the process have been quite clear that this is a step on the way to bringing down the county municipalities. It was even said at the press conferences. And then the Left and Christian People's Party comes and thinks they've saved the county councils and the regional level. We know who controls this. It's those who want to remove it, make it something big and incomprehensible. And now you have to lose the names, too, so that the belongings aren't there, because then you'll be able to remove it more easily. This is not about what politicians think about this. This is about what people think about the name they have in their territory, because it's not just about county. It's about territory and identity for people. It wasn't what they wanted, said the representative of the Christian People's Party. No, I guess it didn't, so the decision is awfully weak. And maybe the worst is in Finnmark. There we have now had a referendum that shows what we already knew – that this is in violation of the Finnish people's will. They don't want it. They don't want it. However, it has to be forced through – and now also by name. People are angry in Finnmark, one said up here. He used a slightly different word, but I'll try to avoid it. Yes, they are – and with good reason. It's allowed to turn around when you see that it's in conflict with what the population wants – because it is. There's a lot of anxiety about this, and there's no good starting point for something you say is going to be something strong, functional and important. That's a terrible starting point, unfortunately. The reason we have made a different proposal today is that we believe that this process has not been good enough. But the starting point here is the coercion for which the majority of the population is responsible, and which should have been converted, and which SV is ready to convert in the second there is the possibility of doing so.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e873	I really had to look up and read the title of the matter we are discussing today. The title is: Changes to the law of division [[new county name]] What we're going to discuss today is: what processes have there been around these names? What's happened out there? I can tell you about the phones of central party people who are asking on their knees that the Christian People's Party must secure a majority in order to get this through, because the principle of good local democracy and anchoring is incredibly important. I said in my post that this is about emotions, and it does. That's what makes the matter so incredibly difficult. You can deal with those feelings year after year, and no decision is made because your feelings take over. What's important about this, what's the base? It is that a majority in the UK has said that we want a regional reform. We've even said that we want a whole thing. I hope it's important, because the last time the reform was promoted, it stranded it that it wasn't a whole thing. Then I wonder: is this a rematch on the whole of the regional reform we are going to have today? Heidi Greni from the Central Party gave me a visit, and I really wonder if I have to have incredibly heavy for it, because I've been challenged so many times by the Central Party from this pulpit because the Christian People's Party has been honest and said, that's not all we like as well. But what's important? It's that we get decentralized power, so that the decisions are taken as closely as possible to the inhabitants. And it's a big mystery to me that the Center Party can problematize this. Here it's listened to the people.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e884	As the previous speaker, the representative Bransdal, said, this is about decentralizing – decentralizing power. It's completely incomprehensible to me that the Center Party took that position, because I initially thought that that party was occupied with that. But I see from this pulpit, which I experienced last year and also before Christmas when we discussed the corresponding case, that that is probably not what you're concerned about. It's probably something completely different. I thought it was a center position in Norwegian politics to bring power closer to the inhabitants, by also making them powerful county municipalities. It is not going to come from – and as former state politicians I know it very well – that basically there are county roads and secondary schools that are being held in the county municipality. The majority now provide an opportunity for them to get bigger, heavier tasks – more power for the county councils. Not least I thought at least that the former county council from Nordland understood this, but I have obviously missed something, because in this case it's really not about it, obviously. It's about rhetoric. It is much more important to have a divisive rhetoric, so that it should seem as if someone would not apply to the inhabitants something that is good. The red-green project, like the beach, which was actually a transfer of some national roads without having cost coverage for it, was the previous regional reform. It wasn't much to shout for. Now, as the representative before me said, there are tasks, which were one of the premises when we adopted this last year. I must say that I also react to the representative Karin Andersen, who was also involved in similar debate both last spring and before Christmas. She says that the majority moralizes. No, the majority actually have such great confidence in democracy that when a majority decision is taken in this Chamber, we follow it up. That's what this is about. We are following up democratic decisions. It's not moralizing from the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e893	I was actually going to take the word into part of the substance of the process, but I'm going to have to put the representative Skelstad a shorthand, because I think he has to look up the word'moralize' after holding a post where he's trying to add other opinions they don't necessarily have. What has been important for the Central Party in the matter that is on the agenda today has been about how to facilitate a good process, which in this context must necessarily include more than just the individual county council. The representative of Skkelstad used the word «splitting» to designate the name Westland from the West. This is because in that context we are talking about a whole part of the country, and I think that that part of the country could have come up with better name solutions if you had a proper process ahead of this case. And that's exactly what has been the concern of the Center Party and the signatory, namely that the process has been too bad. In principle, we could have understood that no consultation had been held in this case, but the hearing, however – it should be noted – was set up in a very short time in the committee because it was important to try to deal with the matter before spring if you wanted to deal with it again later, showed with great clarity that it was necessary to have a new process. Names of counties have historical significance and a cultural perspective. It affects, as I said, many surrounding states. That's why, during the hearing, there were so many reactions to the names proposed by the government. If any of the people who took part in the hearing didn't notice, I think they have to hear after one more time. I find reason to stress that, despite the very short time from the time we got the case, until we decided that we should have a hearing, and setting the date, there were many who came and had opinions about this, of course in the states that are most strongly affected by the name choice. There is reason to note that when today's county name was adopted, in 1918, it was the result of a major professional investigation, a thorough consultation round and a comprehensive political process. It is very unfortunate, in the light of the feedback that has come, that the government has not been able to prioritise this in 2018, and I note that the majority in this Chamber does not want it either. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e906	Let me start by saying that I do not agree that there has not been a thorough process around this. There has been a broad debate in several areas, locally and nationally, on these issues, so that is not true, what the representative Nordlund said before me. There is reason to recall that we have twice decided on a new state structure. In 2017, before the election, a new state structure was adopted for the benefit of people and businesses, where one can move power closer to people. We had a big decision in 2017 where the government was re-elected. Then we had a proposal for a representative – in reverse language, correctly – to reverse the regional reform, but that did not get a majority. When Andersen's representative says that this is against people's will, it's not true, because the government went to the elections to implement the regional reform that you're trying to do again today, and we got a majority to implement it. In spite of the fact that the opposition had a purely majority in order to carry out a regional reform for which they themselves were in favour, they were thus unable to implement it at the time of their own government. Listening to the debate today, it may not be very difficult to understand why a regional reform could not be carried out when there is no way to determine county names – even when their own local politicians want the names on which the government has today made proposals for the Storting and on which we hope to agree later today. Nor is it true that people have not been heard in the matter. There has been consultation within the Committee and, as I mentioned in the introduction, the names have also been the subject of wide-ranging debate. From the hearing in the committee there is also reason to mention that there were six pieces that came to us and had recordings. None of them came from the states, but it's probably related to the states themselves wanting these names. I am also pleased that the Language Council has said what they think about these names, and I note that none of the counties have changed their mind on what county name they want, after they have received a recommendation from the Language Council. Now I'm glad we can finally move on, and I say again, as I did before Christmas, that now the time of the fights is over, now we have to carry out this reform, for which there is also a majority in the people.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e921	When you listen to the debate, you almost wonder if there are many in the room who have not read the setting. It is quite short and reads as follows: «The Size Transmits Prop. 65 L back to the government. [[2017-2018]] The majority asks the Government to obtain an overall assessment from the Language Council of the choice of new county names and to send the matter to the general hearing in accordance with the investigative instructions before the case is brought before the Storting for final consideration.» That doesn't mean we want to outrun state politicians. That doesn't mean we've proposed new names in the hall today. That doesn't mean we shouldn't listen to local democracy. But that means we would want the investigation manual to have been followed. We wish this had been out at the usual hearing. We wish that the council had received the advice from the Language Council before they made their decisions on names, not, as has happened in many of the cases, after the decisions had already been taken. So this has nothing to do with rematching, it has to do with wishing that this process had taken place after the book. The representative Bransdal was surprised at my post. This is not a quote, but the way I get it, said Tuskedal in the hall when we dealt with the reform: this is a division no one in the hall is satisfied with. Then we might have to say that there's probably not a majority in the Chamber for this, but it's a result of a debate. The party leader in the Christian People's Party has said something like that that we have to try a few years with Finnmark and Troms, and see when the new problems come, and we might have to evaluate it. At least that's the way it was made in the media. The centre party believes that we have powerful county municipalities already today, and that we have 19 county municipalities that could have done all the new tasks proposed by the expert committee. I fundamentally disagree with Skjelstad when he says that it is only where there was no local consensus, they overrun states. There was local agreement between Uppland and Hedmark that they did not want to join forces. There was local agreement that they would continue for themselves, and they were not allowed to do so. Last week I was offered a book by Are Eivind Burnne about the merger process when it came to the municipal reform. It had the title ‘New Kristiansand received by rape’. A similar title I think had been very comprehensive also for the regional reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e939	The fact that this debate is drawing out shows what is really happening out there, that names are about identity, culture and a sense of where you come from. The fact that there is a lot of debate is not so strange, and the fact that some representatives then want to attack the Central Party to override local democracy may not be so strange, but there is reason to refer to the vote and the remarks that it says, because it's about the process. So the only hearing that has been conducted, which I was in, was on very short notice, and I think I find reason to give a little visit to the representative Holm Lønseth and say that yes, it was actually one of the county municipalities that was present, namely Rogaland. There is also, if you look at the recording of the hearing, what Rogaland thinks about the new name Westland. One of the major appeals of the majority of the committee — not the majority in this Chamber — has been that the Language Council, which is the expert body in its name and which is the government's own body and which should have been consulted, has not been sufficiently involved in the work of the counties, regardless of the type of consultation and participation processes that have taken place. For the Language Council, opinions on the different names were requested after the discussions – and conclusions – in the counties were well under way. So if we take the example from Hedmark and Uppland, they discussed the name in a joint district on 24 October 2017, while the government first asked the Language Council for advice on 6 November 2017. In view of this, and especially in the light of all the unrest and debate and the disparity created by the name proposals, it would probably have been useful – perhaps to respond to some of the concerns of the Christian People's Party about how the regional reform should stand – that a whole process had been achieved. I'm recording that you don't have a majority for that. Then there is reason to ask the Council of State about the basis and the kind of assessment it has made regarding the City Name Act, because Section 1 states that it is “to keep city names as linguistic cultural memories”. There were many of the hearing bodies present in the committee that were involved. So now you choose names that go to new counties, but it's not necessarily a good process. There has been a lot of debate since the government presented its proposal, a proposal that is likely to be adopted and that will create a major debate in the future, in order to build a uniform identity, especially when using the name of a level of government that relates to parts of the country – yes, it will be problematic.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e949	In line with the representative Bransdal, I was very surprised at what we were going to debate. I thought it was the names, and then we end up with what's almost an attempt at a rematch. I belong to a part of the country that is very pleased that we are now going to fight together. I am very pleased that the government showed leadership qualities, was competent and made some choices – and Stortinget has also said about this matter. For me, this reminds me a lot of a rematch, and I think there's a lack of respect for what the great crowd has decided. The government makes the job that a majority has said very clearly that it should do. I hope we can land this matter in a good way, and that we can continue with a completely necessary reform. I also hope that we get tasks closer to the population and to the population, that we get a greater interest in dealing with regional policy, that we get bigger and more firm regions, and that we can let the government do that job. We see that these processes can be carried on for many years. In Agder we worked with voluntary aggregation for 40–50 years. In the last few years, we've tried with a referendum and different ways to solve this -- the beach. So I'm happy with this case, and then I hope we can get over to the name debate itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e962	The representative Torhild Bransdal has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e967	The representative, Mr Greni, has just confirmed from this speaker that the present states are large enough, and that must be seen as a rematch on the reform of the region. I really hope this is the last time I hear about old statements, from the previous session and the previous big time period. It's been explained so many times from this pulpit that that's not all we were satisfied with, but unlike the Central Party, we want to go forward and we want a regional reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e972	I have listened with interest to the debate today. Some have suggested that this might be a little unnecessary and surprising debate, and that it might take a little while, compared to the previous one. They were also asked if everyone had read the setting. I have read the setting, but I have also read the setting for Stortinget 100 years ago, in 1918, because then there was a very long debate about the names of the new states in Norway. Odelstingen discussed the matter for two days, on 26 July and 30 July. The court examined the matter on 5 August, and Odelstinget had to refer the matter again on 8 August. So four days joined the Storting before one agreed on the names of the new states. There were very many amendments, both through the committee procedure, the deliberations and the conciliation procedure. There were four counties in particular. It was in those cases where the county names finally became Eastfold, Hedmark, Uppland and Troms. I can inform you that the government had proposed that the four states should be called ‘Austfold’, ‘Heidmark’, ‘Upland’ and ‘Møre’. That would not be the case, so they proposed instead ‘Austfold’ – here it was the same name that was proposed – while what was later Hedmark was proposed to be ‘Aust-Upland’. What later became Uppland was proposed to be called ‘West Uppland’, and what eventually became Troms County was proposed to be called ‘Trums’. There were long debates, and I'm not going to go through all the debates – I've done it, but I'm not going to bother Stortinget with it. My point is that the name engages, and it's Storting's responsibility to make sure that we have a good name for the regional division in counties. Then we should also take the time to discuss this properly. That was my point.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e981	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e997	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1006	In connection with the leave of the Depositary Representative and the Advocate-General Norunn Tveiten Benestad, I present the Innst of the Committee. 333 L for 2017-2018, on amendments to the Introduction Act. The proposal proposes that members of families with children and single minors over 16 years of age with a limited residence permit, pending documented identity, be given the right and obligation to participate in the introduction programme and training in Norwegian and social knowledge. In order to obtain this right and obligation, persons with limited residence permits must also comply with the other conditions of the Introduction Act in line with other newly arrived immigrants. The right and obligation to participate in the introduction programme shall apply from the date of his residence in the municipality. The right and obligation to be trained in Norwegian and social knowledge shall, for lone minors, take effect at the time of the first granting of a residence permit and, for members of families with children, it shall take effect at the time of the first renewal of a residence permit. The right to participate will be valid for three years. The economic impact of the changes has been estimated at 34 million. kr in increased integration grants to municipalities and entered into government proposals for revised national budgets. The aim of the changes in the law of introduction is to ensure that families with children and the single minors over the age of 16 are quickly offered a qualification offer that they can get started. The need to get it in place as soon as possible is also the reason why the government has not sent the matter to the hearing. Limited residence permits give the law in force the right to take up work, but without sufficient competence it is difficult to get a job. Language and social skills are important for functioning and feeling included in the Norwegian community. The right and obligation to participate in the introduction programme will facilitate entry into the labour market. It will strengthen inclusion and provide the opportunity to contribute to society in the same way as others. Finally, on behalf of the rapporteur, I would like to thank the Committee for its good and constructive cooperation in this matter and, on behalf of an overall committee, advise the Stortinget to take decisions in line with the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1027	Once again, we have a little hint about the integration promise of the Sanner Council, which is about to come. So this is what we've been talking about for six months, without any policy being launched. Finally, we have now received two small signals about changes that could mean something for those who want to be qualified to work through the introduction system. This is far from good enough, but a little step on the way. We support the proposals in today's legislative proposals, which will allow more people to gain free Norwegian education and social skills, but we are impatient for more. We are now facing a new freedom struggle. The path to self-sufficiency and the ability to stand on one's own legs is far too many. We must create freedom for the individual, molded by and in a community. If we are to get more people to work, we must make demands on the training and the qualification offered. How we're going to do this, I'm happy to discuss with the Council of State when he and the government are ready for debate after almost five years in government. We ourselves have promoted a number of proposals in this Chamber that the parties to the government have voted down. I hope the Council of State now turns out to be more forward-looking than its predecessors, so that we can get more qualified for work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1038	The Party supports the Government's proposal that members of families with children and single minors over 16 years of age with limited residence permits, pending documented identity, be given the right and obligation to participate in the introduction programme and training in Norwegian and social subjects. It's a reasonable extension of the personality for training. I think it's good that refugees who live in Norway over a long period of time are given the opportunity to learn Norwegian and acquire knowledge of Norwegian society. The revised national budget proposes that families with children and lone minors who have received a limited residence permit pending a documented identity should be able to reside in the municipalities. The Ministry points out that in this group there are several people who have been on asylum reception for many years. It is the municipalities that are responsible for the implementation of the training. And that's going to cost the municipalities a lot more. The Ministry points out that the residence of children’s families with limited residence permits is intended to provide an increase in the 2018 allocation requirement of 34 million. SEK for integration grants and of SEK 3.9 million. kr for the implementation of training in Norwegian and social sciences. On the other hand, shorter reception time will lead to a reduction in the cost of reception operations. I assume that these are numbers that the department and the KS are agreed on. Since the proposals have not been consulted, we do not know anything about it. In a joint comment, the Workers' Party, SV and the Christian People's Party say that it is important that as a society we facilitate integration as soon as possible. They indicate that there are children who have lived with a limited residence permit for eight years in reception. Therefore, ask that the government implement the new legislation as soon as possible. The centre party agrees with this, but by an incurrency we are not included in the comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1053	This is a case SV is very happy to come. This has been working for many years, and I know that the Christian People's Party has also worked for a long time for this matter. This is common sense, and it is human treatment for people to allow them access to qualification, to live in a municipality and not to live at reception for years. It's pure, common sense. With this, more people can manage earlier, and that's very good. When the committee got this case, which is a legislative proposal, long after the deadline for dealing with legislative proposals, we chose to deal with it quickly because we believe it is an important matter. The money would be revised, and if the law was not dealt with until the fall, we could have risked that it had not started until the autumn. The government has full support for setting the full speed of this work, for it is necessary. A number of other measures are also needed to achieve something similar to what the government is talking about — an integration promise. This case is a tiny bit of it, and it is primarily a very important measure that people should not stay at reception for years. It's harmful. This should be done as far as possible, and as far as possible, people should not be given the qualification or the ability to work, because it harms them, and it does little to contribute to society. A week ago, we had a debate on other measures under the Introduction Act. It encouraged a number of measures and called for the completion of qualification in the introduction system and for it to be much more differentiated in order to provide individual qualification services. Then more people will get to work, and that will be a good thing for both society and the individual. I encourage the Council of State to be quick with these matters. SV will contribute to the creation of a majority for all proposals that can strengthen integration and the introduction system, so that more people can succeed in depending on the sea, contributing to society and giving their children a good life.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1066	I think it's very gratifying that we get drip number two here today as far as the way forward, how we're going to include in society, because it's incredibly important. So I think it's a pleasure today. This is a matter that SV and the Christian People's Party have been dealing with for a very long time, namely that the long-term asylum-seekers and the lone minor asylum-seekers will finally be allowed to live in a municipality. I'm glad. What we are adopting today will be a new start for many children and young people who have lived for too long in the reception of asylum. As I said, the Christian People's Party has fought for a long time for the long-term asylum children, and in the last period, together with the Left, we were able to get the Right Party and the Advance Party to join in lowering the threshold of residence permits for asylum children who have a strong connection with Norway. It was a very important victory for the legal protection of these children. However, many of the long-term asylum children who were granted limited residence permits after the new legislation we got in place have been living for far too long on asylum receptions. The background has been that they have not been able to prove their identity. It was the Stoltenberg II Government that in 2009 tightened the right to participate in the introduction programme and to reside in persons with limited residence permits. It is therefore very gratifying that the government now, under strong pressure from the Christian People's Party and the SV, is promoting proposals that will enable the long-term children and their families to be integrated more quickly into our society. We know that the Left has also played an important role right now in this matter. We politicians have a special responsibility to facilitate integration as early as possible. Of the children who have received a residence permit because of the new legislation, there are children who have been living in Norway since 2003 and who received a residence permit as early as 2010. So there are long-term children who have lived with such a limited permit for eight years. It's very unfortunate. I am therefore pleased that they will now have a fresh start and that the majority of the committee has asked the government to implement this new legislation as soon as possible. It also shows the urgency of the committee, which I am very pleased with.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1083	I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Committee for a quick and thorough discussion. I know that many here in the hall have a strong commitment to these children, and I'm happy to be able to put the matter forward. With the decision taken today — and hopefully in the revised national budget on 15 June — work on resettlement of children’s families with limited residence permits after the first renewal of the permit may begin. These families are legally resident in Norway but are currently not resident and are not entitled to training. While the children go to school, many parents become at home and passive, with a limited social network. Lack of Norwegian training leads to poor Norwegian skills, which in turn makes it difficult to obtain work. We believe it is important that as many people as possible come to work, so that they can support themselves and their own. It is also important that parents can follow their children and participate in large and small communities in Norwegian society. Knowledge and competence are the way to go. We therefore propose that those who are now settled be given the right and duty to introduce programmes and training in Norwegian and social knowledge. The same applies to those resident as single minors with the same type of authorisation. The proposal gives these groups the same rights as other residents. Several of the families with children have lived at reception for several years. We are now proposing that both they should be settled and that they should start to qualify and integrate into Norwegian society. I am pleased that the Committee unanimously supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1096	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1101	Last Thursday we also debated the introduction law. Then we heard in this room both the councils and representatives of the government parties say that they were annoyed by the impatience of the opposition and looked at the minority's proposal from the municipal committee as an input to their own work on integration strategy. My question is therefore: does the Council of State Sanner see the municipal committee as a consultative body, also in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1109	The Municipal Committee shall give an opinion to the Stortinget, and then the Stortinget shall make the decisions. Now, when we implement an integration promise – the strategy comes to the harvest – it requires that we get input from those who have knowledge, and that is the background for me to travel around the country and the beach to see, to learn and to raise the good examples. It is also recommended for others, because very good integration work is being done. So I think this is a theme and a field where it's important that all parties contribute. That there is also a proposal from the Labour Party that can be taken further, I think it is only positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1116	So that means that the Sanner Council will promote the opposition's proposals as its own for the harvest?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1121	I don't quite understand where the representative wants to go. I am concerned that those who come to Norway, who have the right to live in Norway and who will live in Norway and have children in Norway, will be integrated into Norwegian society. I am concerned about the solutions and not so concerned about the polemics with the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1126	It's true that we're impatient about this, because it's urgent. The government is talking about having an integration strategy and coming to the harvest. The question is whether there is actually either a legislative amendment proposal or a proposal in the State budget that makes it possible to start at least from the turn of the year, towards 2019, because it is that when it comes, for example. These are often positive but non-committal in terms of funding and progress. Can the Council of State promise that there will be actual changes both on funding and on legislation that will allow us to make changes from the turn of the year, towards 2019?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1131	Important proposals have already been made to contribute to better integration, including in the revised national budget. One proposal is what we are dealing with today, and the economic consequences of it. We have proposed increasing the number of minority advisors by 13 pieces, from 25 to 38. Minority advisers do a very important job in schools where there are many with a minority background. And we also target and increase the allocation of non-governmental organisations, which are doing a very important job in the fight against negative social control. When the budget comes in October, the representative will see that there will also be proposals there. I have already announced that we will reform the introduction system. It will also involve legislative changes. When that work is done, it will be consulted, and then it will also be known to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1138	It is good that the government now follows up, if it follows up worse than what has been in SV’s proposal for several years, namely to strengthen the system of minority advisors and to strengthen various measures against negative social control. There are important measures and they should certainly be strengthened. The councils recommend us to travel around the municipalities to look at good integration, and some of us have done so for quite many years – meet a lot of municipalities. The background to the proposals we are promoting is our meetings with the municipalities, and not least research that the government has initiated, which gives clear conclusions as to what we are actually going to have to do with these schemes. So I get a little worried when the Council of State almost suggests that what has now come into the revised national budget is so much that now you don't have to be so impatient anymore. There is a great need to get moving very quickly and to get more involved in skills-enhancing measures leading to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1145	I cannot quite understand how the representative can read me that way. I have pointed out that we have already made several proposals and several important proposals this spring. We must also bear in mind that we have been through a period of refugee crisis, where very many came to Norway in a very short time. Our main focus in that crisis was to ensure that we got control of the borders, and to ensure that, in cooperation with the municipalities, we got good housing, and that was record housing – very good results. There is no single alternative proposal in the Chamber today. I am pleased that a total increase supports the government's proposals, and then we are working on an integration promise. Outside this hall is very well received.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1154	Yes, there is a unanimous committee today, and I think the Council of State should be aware that the committee chair was initiated to deal with the matter now. So there's no need to ask any questions about it. There were many proposals that were voted down last week. During the previous period, this representative presented 51 proposals. So the government has had quite a lot to choose from. The history of what happened during the refugee crisis repeats the government. It was like the government was sitting still and causing the crisis to arise. It was the Stortinget that took the initiative to increase the budgets in order to deal with the refugee crisis. It would have been possible and wise during the refugee crisis to also improve integration then. Many people lived, yes – contrary to the advice of one of the government’s party leaders to the municipalities, if not to settle. So I'm asking the Council of State to change its history a little bit and maybe be a little bit more careful with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1161	I can promise the representative that I won't. The government handled that crisis very well. We made sure that it was handled at state level. We established a good cooperation with Kommune-Norge, and Kommune-Norge with representatives from all parties made a great effort in the settlement work. We are now working specifically and concretely to achieve an integration promise. And it is not surprising that opposition parties promote alternative proposals. So did the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left when we were in opposition, proposals that were voted down by the then government parties. So that kind of polemics seems to me to be a little bit of a problem. I want to be a listener and accommodating and find solutions. If these are good proposals from the Socialist Left Party, I have no problem that we're also working with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1168	The cord shift is over. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1184	I refer you to my letter to the Stortinget on 3 May and thank you for the opportunity to explain the country's ownership follow-up and other relevant issues related to the Norwegian Hydro alumina plant Alumorte in Brazil. We are many who have seen the images after the extreme rainy weather between 16 and 17. of February. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries has been following the situation from the very beginning, and we have had close and ongoing contact with Hydro. Together with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we have provided the assistance that Norwegian companies should have in such situations, not least through the Embassy in Brasilia. Making sure that Norwegian companies receive professional advice and other relevant support when operating abroad is one of my tasks as Minister of Industry. My second task and role in this matter is to manage the state's ownership of Norsk Hydro, where the state owns 34.3 pst. of the shares. The government expects companies in which the country is the owner to be the leader in corporate social responsibility and to be the foremost in climate and environment. In addition, it is obvious that companies with State ownership comply with local laws and regulations in which they have their business. This is clearly reflected in the ownership message, which a total size has been behind it. My impression is that Hydro takes the matter very seriously. The state ownership of the Norwegian business community is extensive and it manages large amounts on behalf of the community. It is essential that the State manages its ownership in a professional and predictable manner. The framework and principles of state ownership policy have been firmly established by alternating governments since the ownership principles were established in 2002. The division of roles between shareholders, board and management follows from company law and generally accepted principles of ownership and corporate governance. The management of a company is the responsibility of the board of directors. As a general rule, the owner does not understand the current business decisions. As our owner, we deal with the board, which is to oversee day-to-day management and the company's activities. The Management Board shall establish the company's risk profile and ensure that the company has sound internal control and adequate risk management and compliance systems. Shareholders exercise their powers at general meetings. The State is also continuously monitoring its expectations through the ownership dialogue. Ownership dialogue is generally also for larger private shareholders. It is important to remember that the State that owns has no rights other than those of other shareholders. The equal treatment of its shareholders is an important principle, which is also a matter for the State. In the area of social responsibility and sustainability, clear expectations have been formulated in the ownership message that a total increase has been behind. These expectations are clearly expressed to both Hydro and other companies, and we have repeated these expectations in concrete terms in the context of the situation at Alumorte. The Ministry has a comprehensive and systematic follow-up to the company's work on sustainability. The Ministry's follow-up to the work of companies on social responsibility and sustainability takes place initially through the ownership dialogue in quarterly meetings with the companies and in annual meetings on sustainability. The themes of the meetings are determined on the basis of what is considered essential for each company. Hydro bought 26.7 pst. of the shares in Alumorte in 2000. The title increased to 34 pst. in 2003. As part of a larger purchase from the Brazilian company Vale in 2011, Hydro then increased its ownership to the current 92.1 pst. The plant produces alumina from the rock bauxite. Alumina is the raw material for the production of aluminium. The waste from alumina production is called red sludge and stored in two landfills in the area. Extremity 16-17. On February and continued heavy rain the following days led to floods in the town and industrial area of Barcarena, where Alumorte is located. Subsequent problems with the drinking water of the local population and claims of leakage of red sludge from Hydro plants were of great concern. In view of this, at the end of February, Hydro was required to reduce production at Alumorte by 50 pst. and adjust the activity of the most recent of the two red sludge landfills. This still applies. The cut has caused Hydro to have had to reduce production even at the paragominas bauxite mine and at the Albras aluminium mill. According to Hydro, production cuts can have an impact on jobs in Pará and in the long term also affect the activity of Norwegian aluminiumworks that Hydro has, as well as other customers of Alumorte. Hydro has reported that shortly after the rainy weather, an internal group was set up to assess the operational consequences and carry out an internal review of Alumorte. Hydro also asked the Brazilian environmental consultancy SGW Services to conduct a third-party assessment of Aluorte’s water treatment and liquid management system. According to Hydro, the studies included the operation of red sludge deposits, water and sewage systems and the potential impact on the external environment. In April, reports from both reviews were published. These concluded that there has been no release from the red mud landfills and that there is no indication that Arunorte has contaminated local communities or had a lasting impact on the environment in the rivers near the heavy rainstorm. Hydro has reported that after the extreme rainstorm, Alumorte, a cornerstone of the area, took a number of humanitarian measures to help the population of the community. This included water distribution and immediate access to healthcare. The Red Cross was mobilised to identify health needs. According to Hydro, the company has also launched a project to improve the water treatment plant at Alumorte in order to make it more robust for extreme weather as a result of climate change. According to Hydro, this includes an investment in the water treatment system, which will increase the purification capacity by 50 pst. and the pool capacity of 150 pst. Furthermore, the company has communicated that it contributes to the sustainable development of the communities in Barcarena, through, inter alia, a multi-annual programme to invest in local community actions, in cooperation, inter alia. community, authorities and relevant organisations. According to Hydro, their approach has been to give priority to humanitarian aid, to strengthen dialogue with local leaders, to clarify the course of events and facts about the situation through internal and external reviews, thereby facilitating the resumption of normal operations at Aluorte. The restrictions and obligations continue to apply. Hydro is in dialogue with central authorities and organisations on the basis of return to normal operation. There are several authorities that have a role in the case, both locally, nationally and at the state level. I believe that the Ministry of the Role of Owners has had the follow-up and dialogue with Hydro that there is a cross-political consensus that we should have, namely by conveying the general expectations of the State, and by following up how a company deals with these expectations. Various sustainability, risk and environmental issues have been the subject of our ownership dialogue since the purchase of Alumorte. As Minister of Industry, I have also followed the situation at Alumorte carefully from the start. The company has kept the ministry continuously informed of developments and answered various questions from the ministry. I have had several briefings with both the director and the group manager. In addition, the department has had several meetings and telephone calls with the company. During the meetings, Hydro briefed on the situation and answered questions from the Ministry. I have repeated in the meetings that I expect Hydro to take the matter very seriously and expect that the company in which the state owns is the leader and foremost in the work on social responsibility. As Minister of Industry, I am also concerned about the conditions of Norwegian companies operating abroad. Brazil is a very important cooperation country for Norway and is our main trading partner in Latin America. Hydro's investment in Brazil is a good example of Norwegian-Brazilian business cooperation and Norwegian business confidence in Brazil's economic growth and prospects. In addition to the ownership dialogue, we have therefore had discussions with Hydro – as a Norwegian company – on how the Norwegian authorities can assist the company in achieving dialogue with the relevant Brazilian authorities in this situation. The Norwegian Embassy in Brazil has assisted Hydro in advising and facilitating this dialogue. The State shall manage its ownership in a professional and predictable manner in line with the framework for the exercise of ownership communicated to the Stortinget. Hydro’s activities in Brazil are under the responsibility of the Management Board. I therefore do not wish to express any views on the company's handling of concrete operational issues. But it is my responsibility to follow up on whether the company meets the expectations the State has. This is a demanding case that has not yet been closed. There is not yet an agreement between the company and the Brazilian authorities on the framework for ordinary operations at Alumorte. My impression is that Hydro has taken this situation very seriously and is working to find good solutions with the Brazilian authorities, so that the company can resume normal production. I expect and assume that the company will continue this work. As Minister of Industry and responsible for the management of state ownership, I will continue to follow the matter closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1260	The President will propose, in accordance with Article 45, second paragraph, point (c), that the Minister of Industry of the situation of Norsk Hydro in Brazil be sent to the Business Committee. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1276	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that – within the allocated speaking time – up to six rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note. The President will ask the Council of State to remain in the Chamber. I don't see the Minister of Transport here, so can Røe Isaksen be a little minister of trade?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1287	It'll be fun!
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1292	Then Johan Aa's word is given on behalf of the case-speaker Tor André Johnsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1297	It is my view and that of the Progress Party that we, as politicians, should work to help people get a simpler and better everyday life. This is a matter with just such a theme. There are many older people who today experience the legislation on driving licences and health certificates as for bureaucratic and difficult. I am therefore pleased that the Council of State and the Government have already addressed this part of the driving licence code precisely in view of simplifications for individuals, but also easier regulation management. I would also like to thank the Committee for a good process in examining this proposal. The age limit for the health testing of the elderly in relation to driving licences has already been raised from 70 years to 75 years. Older people’s health is getting better and better, and therefore there is also good reason to implement further simplifications in this legislation. Several countries have abolished specific health testing requirements for older drivers. I believe that the word «health test» should also have been replaced by «health check», with the control of vision, hearing and blood pressure. In a country like Norway, with a widespread settlement, the right to drive is about basic freedom of movement. Taking away from the older driving licence may feel like a mere disembarkation, and therefore there must be a solid professional anchoring to take this grip. Remember: You can be a good, safe and robust driver even if the cognitive test can be challenging for many older people. There are health aspects that have an impact on road safety, the regulatory framework should focus on. For this reason, the majority of the Committee considers that simplifications and improvements in driving licence legislation should be pursued which do not compromise road safety. The majority point here to the possibility of replacing today's cognitive tests with a more regular health certificate. The Council of State has already started to look at simplifications for older drivers, together with the Ministry of Health and Health, who also have a professional responsibility here. The professional evaluation under way is necessary and it is essential that this process is reviewed and good. It is important that we now get to work freely on this issue, but with simplification for the individual licence holder as a goal. Norway shall have no more difficult legislation regarding driving licences for older people than our neighbouring countries. The Council of State has notified that it will return to the Grand Duchy in an appropriate manner once the review of the legislation has been carried out, and the majority of the Committee takes the view that this proposal for a representative is not adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1321	We're in a very special situation now. We're going to discuss an important topic, and then the Minister of Transport is not in place in the Chamber. I would suggest that we either interrupt the debate until the Minister for Transport arrives, or I will come back to the list of speakers later, because it is pointless to stand here and talk without the Minister for Transport being present. But first of all, I suggest that we postpone the debate to the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1326	Now the working case spokesperson has said that the Council of State has warned that he will come to Stortinget – then he will come. The president suggests that we take a little break, but not leave the hall, and then calculates that the council is in a commotion.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1345	The Stortinget is ready to continue the meeting. The President will, before the next speaker goes to the pulpit, point out that in Storting's handling of matters, we are dependent on having a Council of State present in the Chamber. It's unfortunate that we have to break the meeting this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1352	Then we're on, and I would say, for the Council of State, this is to come back to the Storting in an inappropriate way. But now, at least, we are in the process of the debate. I think the case rapporteur made a good point. It is therefore surprising to me why, insofar as the majority of the Committee's members do not support the proposal of the Workers' Party and the Centre's Party, where it says: «The government is asked to make the necessary proposals for changes to the legislation on the renewal of driving licences so that drivers over 75 years of age do not have to present a health certificate [[...]] It is quite right, as the rapporteur said, that this is a controversial system, and a system that irritates very many older drivers. The working party has worked a lot on this question. Last autumn we sent a mission to the Stortingen Investigation Section, which gave us a lot of professional documentation about how this happens in our neighbouring country. It turns out that in Sweden there is no such heavy-duty scheme as the one we have in Norway. Denmark has a driving licence renewal scheme for those over 75 years of age. It was similar to the Norwegian system, but they have gone away from that system. Through the work we have also heard that this is something that is required by EEA cooperation. No, it also turned out to be wrong. Neither the EU nor the EEA requires us to have this very heavy-duty driving licence renewal scheme that we have in Norway. In addition, the most important argument is that there is no professional basis that says that the system we have – to meet with the administrator, to answer what many see as very strange questions, and that has nothing to do with driving, to obtain a physical health certificate and to meet physically at one of the Road Administration’s traffic stations to keep the licence – is good for road safety. So this is a system that's ready to end up on the scrapheap. That is why we should reach men and make sure that we can simplify the everyday life of drivers over 75 years of age. Of course, we must stress that those who are not fit to drive a car should not have a valid driving licence, regardless of the type of driving licence renewal. Of course, it should also be that doctors, health services, police authorities, maybe others, too, without me knowing the rules well enough for how it is actually going on out there, should be able to take away drivers who are not fit to drive a car, the driver's license. But it must apply whether you are over 75 years of age or under 75 years of age. If you are not fit to drive a car, of course you should not drive a car. It should be possible to think the opposite of today's system. Today, after you reach the age of 75, you have to go through a re-disputed health certificate to prove that you are fit to drive a car. So you can essentially ask questions about it proves it, but the system is at least like this: you have to prove that you're fit to drive a car. It should be possible to think the opposite, that you have your driving licence until you no longer have it, for medical, physical or other reasons, such as Sweden, Denmark and Germany. But we have to get away from the heavy-duty system we have today. In today's society with today's technological and digital solutions, it should also be possible to find a simpler system than to physically visit one of the Road Service Stations to renew their driving licence at personal presence. It should be possible to make it simpler than what is happening today. I expect that we will hear many articles now about how hopeless today's system is. I also expect that we will hear the usual, that this is to open doors, when we in the opposition make suggestions. We're going to hear that they agree entirely with what we're dealing with, but then there's no reason why they can't vote in favour of the proposal of the Workers' Party and the Center Party. Finally, I would like to address proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. I would also recommend that this proposal be put to the vote before the SV's proposal, because if the Workers' Party and the Senter Party's proposal do not get a majority, we will vote in favour of the SV's proposal in a subsidiary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1378	The representative Sverre Myrli has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1384	The right fully agrees that it makes sense to look at the current compulsory health certificate system for drivers over 75 years of age. Recent research suggests that mandatory health certificates for older drivers are not necessarily a particularly effective or good road safety system. We therefore welcome the initiative already taken by the Minister for Transport to obtain a joint assessment from the road and health authorities of the rules on health attestations for older drivers. As stated by the Council of State in its reply to the Committee, he is committed to finding out how to simplify the legislation, both for those with a driving licence and for the authorities, while at the same time ensuring road safety. Together with the Minister of Health, he has asked the Directorate of Roads and the Directorate of Health to work together to identify schemes that can replace today’s age-based scheme. In the right, it is important to listen to professional input and recommendations in this context, and we look forward to the Minister of Transport returning to Stortinget in an appropriate manner when the professional assessments are available. So the right does not support the proposals of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, since the government is already well-informed about these issues. This does not mean that we are opposed to making changes, on the contrary, but in our opinion it is wise to await professional assessments before we conclude on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1395	The Central Party presents this Document 8 with a background in recordings by engaged people who, on behalf of the age group from 75 years onwards, have taken up several of the parties on the Stortinget, and the fact that Denmark and Germany have recently removed this requirement for a health certificate for older drivers. Our neighbouring country Sweden also does not have the same strict requirements for the testing regime that we have. In 2010, the State Road Administration presented a report on high-risk groups in road traffic, which concluded that: ‘If older people are identified as a safety problem and categorized as a homogeneous group according to their chronological age, important differences between individuals and groups of individuals based on other factors are disregarded. [[responsible drivers]] Examples of such conditions are health aspects, gender, ethnic background, housing conditions and economic assumptions. These are aspects which affect the travel habits of individuals and their access to traffic-safe vehicles and vehicle safety equipment. There is nothing in the results of the project that advocates a general restriction on driving and the possession of driving licences for a certain age group of older persons.» That was the conclusion of the report. Denmark removed last year’s requirement to test the health of older drivers. Accident statistics in both Germany and Sweden, which do not have such health testing requirements, do not differ from those in testing, so there is no basis for claiming the accident-reducing effect of testing. The accident commission on road accidents in Denmark submitted a report in 2012. It has three main conclusions: with several drivers in traffic, there will not be an additional accident risk, but it must be expected that the accident picture will change with an increase in some accident types and falls in others. The damaged image will change. Accident statistics show that older people are more likely to be seriously injured or killed in road accidents due to poorer physical conditions than younger ones. Thus, health testing requirements cannot be demonstrated to give greater effect. We then have a bureaucratic system that imposes unnecessary burdens on the fixed medical systems, health professionals and driver card authorities. Nor could Minister of Transport Solvik-Olsen provide any evidence that the requirement for a health certificate results in reduced accident rates where people in the age group in question cause an accident, in response to my question to the Council of State on 8 March this year. The centre batch is occupied with traffic safety. There must be strict requirements for the individual driver to be in a state of health in which to drive a car in traffic – regardless of age. Nevertheless, it is not possible for one to create a general requirement to carry out a health certificate and cognitive test when one has passed 75 years. This is a discriminatory form, and it is unparalleled as long as there is no evidence of a greater effect on it. Researcher Rune Elvik of the Transport Economics Institute wrote in April 2016 in the journal Samferdsel that today drivers aged 65 and over have little higher risk than other drivers. 25 years ago, drivers over 65 years of age had 70 pst. higher risk of injury in traffic than younger drivers. In 2014, the difference was barely 4 pst. So there's been a big change in older drivers. They're more experienced, cars are safer, so they're no greater accident risk than other age groups. The centre party believes that it is now time for us to take over this fact, and that the requirement for a health certificate for drivers over 75 years of age is now being removed – that we will have a more simplified system for older drivers. I note that the majority in the room will not support the proposal, with the argument that the work is already in progress. It is good, but it is a little special that it seems that this work was not started until our proposal was made. So the centre party is behind the proposal made by the representative Myrli. If so, we will vote in favour of the SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1421	It may well happen – if I’m going to take a little visit to the representative Myrli – that I’m going to say a little bit of the same as the Right Representative did, that I quite agree with the intention behind their proposal. Because we have a great deal of understanding of the proposal that has been promoted. I have also received enquiries from people asking me to support this proposal. They describe a reality, especially in the districts, which is tough and really quite fateful, if you are deprived of your driver's license when you live in pig-grown strips and need to trade in the local store or have a social life in the countryside. I have also received descriptions of the standardised tests that are being carried out to test certain cognitive properties, and they seem both irrelevant and degrading to those who have to pass through them. In addition, it is difficult, as several representatives have pointed out, to find strong evidence that older drivers are involved in many more accidents than average. But that's the way that Safety Traffic says something about this, on its websites, among other things. It has been attended by some, but just as fully it says there, and if we are to have any confidence in the large organisation Safe Traffic, we need to pay attention to what they write. They print out correctly that older drivers are more likely to be guilty of accidents in which they are involved. They say that older drivers are over-represented in cross-accident and field-change accidents, and that accidents with older people are relatively often due to breakaways or stoppages. There are also a few more points. But there's some "but" here. If we're going to take out some groups that represent a danger in traffic, it's probably the youngest drivers. We can see that reflected, among other things. through the insurance premiums and the terms and conditions of the policies which insurance undertakings give to policy holders. Nevertheless, society has not put in place any maturity tests for the youngest. You could imagine that. It has not been required, and there would have been strong protests if such a proposal had come. They are strongly overrepresented in traffic accidents. But I have also talked over the years to several families who are a little confused that grandpa or grandmother or grandmother is still driving a car. They have seen obvious defects in the driving skills, but then they dare not tell them directly, and they do not dare to go to the authorities and tell them. This is also part of the picture. The argument that a health certificate also brings older people to the doctor and that obvious cases of disease can be detected is also part of this. Many older people simply don't go to the hospital for no reason. However, this should not be a decisive argument, since it can be sought when needed, and other systems could in a way capture a person who should have been in for a health check. It gets one to consider in other suggestions. This means that SV will probably go well in the direction that health certificates for the elderly should be removed, so that we become more in line with our neighbouring countries. However, SV also considers that the assessment of the necessity and design of a health certificate must be done on a professional basis and not through a proposal directly in the hall, without an investigation into it. Therefore, it makes sense to investigate the issue thoroughly before removing any health certificate requirement. We have registered that Safety Traffic has warned. Then we'll see what such an investigation can bring about new information that is, if possible, even better fact-finding in terms of statistics. Therefore, when decisions with a road safety significance are to be taken, it is particularly important to base good professional judgements. That is why we have made our own proposal on this, which I am referring to here.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1442	The representative Arne Nävra has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1447	We've had a zero vision since 2002 too badly damaged and killed in traffic. In 2017, 106 people died and 665 were severely injured. There are 106 families who lost their loved ones, their children, their parents, and their grandparents. There's 106 friends who were abruptly torn away. There are 106 people who had dreams for the future. 32 of them killed and 129 of them seriously injured were road users over the age of 65. There were more in the oldest age group than the youngest that was severely damaged or killed, according to the SSB statistics for 2017. Traffic accidents are serious for everyone affected. It hits abruptly and brutally, it often seems distant and unreal, it can hit everyone, and we understand that only when we ourselves or someone we are close to is hit – not just those who are hit directly, but friends and family around. Fortunately, evolution is positive, but we're still far from the goal, the zero vision. We have no life to lose, no life to destroy. Nevertheless, many people die or are seriously injured in traffic every year. The left considers that all measures that can help achieve the zero vision are important. We believe that regular health testing for older drivers should be a requirement, a continuing requirement. It is good that the Nordics live longer and longer, and that health has improved. Today’s pensioners are more pronounced than ever, so it was right to raise the age of a compulsory health certificate in relation to driving licences from 70 to 75 in 2013. However, in a road safety perspective, we are very sceptical about removing all forms of mandatory health check for older drivers, as the Workers' Party and the Centre are proposing today. It also worries us that this proposal goes across the zero vision and helps to weaken it. Anyone who has had or has parents in their 70s, 80s or 90s knows how difficult it is to realize that you are too weakened to drive a car, and we all know how different the deterioration can be. It is in many ways about detention, and in such a case it is important to have a system that can, on a professional basis, capture cognitive failures of the elderly who should have parked the car for the longest time. Do not let that burden by instructing the elderly be up to family and close friends. That is my advice, and I have at least three-four personal experiences with it. I believe that the proposal that driving licences should be valid for 10 or 15 years even after 75 years of age cannot be considered as anything other than irresponsible, because it is not professionally well established. Furthermore, it should be mentioned that many European countries have a system similar to the one we have in Norway, although of course that is not a good enough argument in itself. It is important to be conscious of the irritation experienced by some older people in the context of the renewal of driving licences, and, perhaps even more importantly, the resource use experienced by the country’s finalists, who are already under time pressure. Nevertheless, these are hardly arguments that are troubling the lives and health of road users. In addition, it is true that the judgement of decision-makers on cognitive failure can often be challenging in the course of a short conversation, and that a system of e.g. primary health teams, where health workers are given longer time with the patient, should be able to make a positive contribution in such situations. The offices of the decision-makers should enter into this, but not necessarily the decision-makers themselves, at least not at first instance. The left considers that there is room for simplification in today's legislation, but these simplifications have to be developed according to professional judgement. Therefore, we are pleased that the Minister for Transport has asked the Directorate of Road and the Directorate of Health to investigate schemes that can replace the current health certificate system while ensuring road safety. So to the representative Myrli, it was said here that the person who is not fit, of course, should not be allowed to keep the licence. Yes, but the problem is how to follow this up. There's a lot of hard work in the current system, but some system for this we have to have. Then the representative Myrli was worried that I would accuse him of turning open the doors. Well, the representative Arnstad has introduced the concept of solar parliamentarianism. Arnstade parliamentarism is a concept I am going to introduce here, and it can be defined as that the opposition is proposing an investigation into a matter that is already under investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1468	Many people perceive today's compulsory health certificate scheme at the age of 75 as bureaucratic and cumbersome. This is due, inter alia, to: together with a personal presence at a traffic station in order to renew the driving licence. Many may also be surprised that the medical check-up is linked to a certain age, and that it is necessary to assess the suitability of drivers on the basis of their chronological age. Last night I had a gentleman on the phone who had worked as a car mechanic all my life. He had been driving a car throughout his professional life or, as he said, lived his life on the road. He still has good health. He expressed that today's system gives an unpleasant experience of not being treated with respect. As he said to me on the phone, you can hear poorly when you are 60 years old, and you can hear poorly when you are 80 years old. It's not about age. I take his experience seriously. I think there are several people who have it this way, and I think there can be some important simplifications and improvements in relation to how it works today. In 2013, the Christian People's Party helped raise the age limit from 70 to 75 years. We are also positive to make changes within this scheme we are discussing here today. Recent research shows that mandatory health attestation based on chronological age is not necessarily a good indication of road accident risks. At the same time, official accident statistics show that in the population group 75 plus there is not the same reduction in the number of fatalities and injuries as in the population. We have to find a balance here. We need changes, and I would like to see that work speeded up, but at the same time we need to ensure road safety. For the Christian People's Party, road safety is the most important thing. That consideration must be borne in mind. Therefore, we believe it would be wrong to do as the Workers' Party and the Centre propose, to scrape the entire system. As regards the SV proposal, it combines the purpose of the compulsory health certificate at 75 plus, which is the responsibility of the determining physician, and the purpose of a practical assessment test, which is the responsibility of the traffic station. Furthermore, the proposal says that we should look at experiences from our neighbouring country, Sweden and Denmark. Sweden has not yet evaluated its system, but there is a concern that very many elderly people with impaired health have not been given the right to drive. In Denmark, the removal of a mandatory health survey is more recent and lacks preliminary experience to compare a pre- and post-natal situation. In addition, most other EU countries have a similar scheme to the Norwegian one. All in all, the Christian People's Party believes that it is important for the government to do the job they are doing, and I believe that reading his letter to the committee and the setting comes with positive signals from the Council of State. The Christian People's Party therefore votes in favour of the Committee's position. That being said, the Christian People’s Party also has clear expectations of speeding up the work being done. The aim must be to save health services and thousands of older people from unnecessary red tape, while at the same time ensuring road safety for those who are ill-healthed to the detriment of driving skills. Then there's an important moment that needs to be taken, and I ask the Council of State to take this with them. It is enough today that many still insist on taking up the topic of driving rights with their patients. There are also some patients who rarely seek their regularity. It can also be a little sensitive in cases where there are close links between patients and regulars. It is good that there is a good and trusting relationship between the patient and the fixed person, as it should be, but at the same time it makes the theme of driving licences difficult for both of them. Many family members may also experience a concern that the right to drive is sometimes extended a little too far. Therefore, today’s mandatory health certificate requirements after age 75 remain an important and necessary way of ensuring that there is sufficient health to have driving rights, and we should continue to look at the role of the determining body in this respect. Finally, I would like to sum up what is the most important thing for the Christian People's Party in this matter: regardless of age you should be treated with dignity and respect. Work on finding better solutions that people experience as worthy and fair should be accelerated. We welcome simplification, provided that road safety is ensured. It is very important that we do not make a system of compromises on security.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1485	This case reminds us that the car is an important means of transport for many, perhaps especially in the districts, and the commitment that people show that people will be allowed to drive a car even when they are more than 75 years old without it being considered bureaucratic, I think it is important and good. It is not in all debates in this Chamber that the car is actually being lifted up as an important means of transport, but here we stand united on it. That's good. It is important that we ensure road safety. When driving on the roads, one should know that the drivers of the cars, and especially of the heavy-duty vehicles, are fit for it, that one has the necessary qualifications and the right attitudes. Traffic safety is job no. 1, and, fortunately, it's been across the party boundaries for many decades. This discussion is about how we are going to ensure that we are able to care for those who, for health reasons, are not as good at driving a car any longer as they were when they got the licence. What we've done so far in setting an age limit of 75 years, I understand there's cross-political agreement in this room that isn't the best way to do it. I think it's good when a total accumulation, both those who are in government now, and those who have been in government before, agree that now we can change the system, now we can simplify it for the inhabitants. Already on 1 March, I notified in a written reply to the Storting that we are going to do such a work – long before this proposal was promoted. So we have started this work, but of course I had to make sure, together with the Minister of Health, that we do it properly, so that what we adopt instead has a professional anchor, that we make it as simple as possible, that we remove the burden of time and money for the elderly to have to get a health certificate, that we remove the burden it poses for the health system, that they have to spend time checking people who are healthy, but also that we get to a system where those who have health challenges that make them less safe drivers are taken care of. We have already sent letters to the Road Directorate and the Health Directorate that this investigation will be carried out. It happened on May 4th. Therefore, it is a bit strange to hear in this debate that one gives the impression that the government parties will not – that they are said to be against it – when we already announced before the proposal was promoted that the work should be done and are now in the process of implementing it. Then this becomes a little pointless political debate, because we obviously do not disagree politically. Then there will be a process debate. Although the opposition came after we had started the work and suggested that we start the work, we should still adopt it. When I was in opposition, we used to agree that if the government announced that a work should start as the opposition has proposed, then we converted the proposal for a transmission proposal, just to make it clear that the government has working time here. In the last months of this room, we have repeatedly had suggestions from the opposition where one opens doors, where the government has already started investigations and already notified the Storting about the investigations. Nevertheless, a trump through a hard vote on the matter and give the impression that if we don't support exactly the opposition's approach, we are opposed to the whole thing. That's a pretty pointless way to debate. SV's input into this through the proposal, we take with us. Although it's also being voted down, we're already doing that job, so the representative Nävra has to be sure about it. But to do as the Workers' Party and the Centre have proposed, to go from the original proposal that we should investigate, as the Senter Party suggested, that we should now simply adopt – without even having looked at the alternative arrangements, just removing what exists – I believe is irresponsible. To be honest, I don't think that the Workers' Party and the Centre would have done it that way if they were themselves sitting and running, on the contrary. Then it becomes so strange when we get a political debate that creates artificial dividing lines, where one goes to the VG and makes them look like someone is trying to stop the matter when everyone really is for it. It just confuses people out there: what's going on? Hasn't the government already notified this through a press release and through a letter? I have been asked about that. Yeah, we got it. But why have you turned around, why have you withdrawn the letter? I'll ask you about that. No, we don't have that, but VG gives you the idea. It is a form of political debate that does not strengthen the confidence of its citizens in what is happening in this Chamber. I will promise that the investigations that the Minister of Health and I are initiating will be carried out, because we have the intentions contained in the proposal. But it's not natural that we should stop the work because the Storting suddenly gets an opposition proposal to be dealt with, and then we're going to go back to the start. I believe that the Workers' Party and the Center Party are also looking at the innermost part. Let's not make any more statements about this. We're going to do that job in line with the majority, yes, everyone here means.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1502	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1507	As I said in my main post, last year the Workers' Party sent a request to Stortinget's investigation section on the matter. The answer from there existed on December 12. On 22 March, the Central Party presented its proposal. On 4 May, the Minister for Transport and the Minister for Health sent out a press release stating that an alternative solution should be explored. The starting point is the cumbersome health certificate system: one must physically meet with the permanent doctor, get a physical health certificate, and then meet up at the traffic station at Vegvesenet. The leading point is therefore the health certificate, and it does not have the Minister of Transport in any correspondence with the Stortinget or in the press release that was sent out, said that he would remove it. He says he will investigate alternative solutions. My question is quite simply: Is one of the solutions still to have a health certificate – or why can the Minister for Transport not say that it is going to go away?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1512	Now I believe the representative Myrli is starting the debate that I just thought we were trying to end. We actually agree that we should not have a compulsory health certificate. One tries to put the words in my mouth, and then one points to selected dates from its own memory, without taking into account when we alerted, among other things. The size of that we had this work. It was March 1st. On 1 March I sent a written reply – long before this proposal was presented. It's not like we're turning around in three days because the opposition is sending a written question about the topic. In that case, we would be the government that was the fastest on foot ever. It takes more than three days to anchor this kind of process. I also think the representatives of the opposition parties are aware of that, after being in government. This is because we've been looking at the challenges for a long time and have wanted to do something about it. This is some of what we took up when we put ourselves in the opposition, without hearing. I am pleased that the Workers' Party is now involved in wanting to simplify rules, but one must not create more conflict than that is the basis for.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1517	Now I want to say to the Minister of Transport: Forget the opposition. It would certainly delight him to do so occasionally. Forget the Storting. Forget who's done what, and say what. My question is quite simply: when it is said that alternative solutions should be investigated, we interpret it this way – if we interpret it incorrectly – that the health certificate scheme is a scheme that should continue to be included in the assessment. The point here is to remove the health certificate. I certainly believe that the Minister for Transport and most of those who have spoken, today's system is difficult, and will find simpler solutions – I believe that. But the specific question is the health certificate, because there is nowhere in the communication from the Minister for Transport: Will the health certificate be removed? Of course, we have confidence that the Minister of Transport is going through this and finding solutions. That is what our proposal is that the Minister for Transport and the Government should make the necessary proposals to the Stortinget. But will the health certificate be removed?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1525	I told VG, where it was printed yesterday, I think someone can read it on my Facebook page – the whole package. I don't know how many times we're going to communicate the same thing: we want a mandatory health certificate gone. But somehow the doctors have to communicate it to those who are responsible for driving licences, if a person, regardless of age, is not fit to drive a car any longer because of health. We may find a word other than a health certificate if there is a problem, but some document will have to be used to communicate with. I have always felt that this discussion is about compulsory health certificates – all of which, regardless of whether they are in good or bad form, have to enter and get this paper – that are perceived as bureaucracy, but that we all agree that if someone no longer has health in place, we will ensure that there is a communication between a doctor and the State Road Service, so that one cannot drive a car. I would like to hear what word you want to use other than a health certificate for this, but I think some kind of evidence of a decision is good to have, no matter how the system gets.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1532	I think this is elucidating. I think it is nice that the Minister of Transport now says that a mandatory health certificate should be removed. I think that's very good. But I have to say that I became somewhat uncertain about whether the consensus is present in the government parties and in the Chamber – as the Minister for Transport said it is – when I heard Grimstad from his post. He took a strong order away from changing the order of the day, at least as far as I could understand. He actually said that it is irresponsible that driving licences are valid for 10 or 15 years, as the rules are in Sweden and Denmark. My question is: Does the Minister for Transport agree with the Left-Representative that the rules on driving licences for older people in Sweden and Denmark are irresponsible?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1537	I understand why we're still discussing the content of the railway reform if it's so hard to take over what's being said in this room. Now, in several of my articles, I have said that we need to get rid of the compulsory health certificate, but we need to figure out how to ensure that the message about those who no longer have their health in place is given to Vegvesen, without everyone over a certain age going into testing. I also do not understand that the representative from the left disagreed with this. But what the representatives of the Left, the SV and the Christian People's Party are concerned about is that we take care of the road safety perspective in this regard. The Workers' Party and the Centre's party are going over the head and are not looking at how to ensure that there is a warning from the Health Service to the State Road Service about those who are all agreed not to be in traffic. This is so incredibly simplified by the Workers' Party and the Center Party, almost to create conflict. I thought we agreed that we should do things on a professional basis, that we agreed that we should simplify for all the elderly, but at the same time take care of those who are sick.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1544	It is good that the majority here are some that we now have an arrangement that we want to remove – if not in total, then at least have a big change. Statistics can be used for many purposes, and it has been used by the Chair here to substantiate the argument that this requirement still has to apply. by referring to the accident statistics of 2017. It is good that we see that we are able to reduce the number of people killed and injured in traffic, but among the 33 killed over 65 years, most were killed or injured as soft road users. There were only three older people who put themselves in the car as drivers. Does the Council of State think that we should turn the effort for road safety for the elderly from health certificates to other schemes?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1551	On health certificate – for a third time: we fully agree that it is an unreasonable, bureaucratic system, which also consumes considerable resources in the healthcare system. I've been meaning that for a long time. That's why I'm glad we're actually doing something about it. Then we get a little bit of a shadow debate here, where one gives the impression that there's disagreement. No, it's not. But I'm glad that we're doing things, and that the Center Party and the Workers' Party are now also involved in simplifications. In terms of road safety work in general: losing someone in traffic is one of the worst things you can experience. My worst representation as the Council of State is to be present at the memorial, because then one sees them in the eyes that have lost someone they're happy with, in which they didn't get the chance to say goodbye to. That is why I am also very pleased that developments are moving in a very positive direction in terms of the number of road fatalities. We have a broad package of measures, based on the objectives set out in the National Transport Plan – over 100 points – on which governments, non-governmental organisations and others have different tasks to report on, for which one will cooperate. We also do a lot within the older group of road users, and we're going to keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1560	Thanks for the answer. The Council of State shall be praised for continuing the good work of ensuring that the accident site is brought down. As the Council of State says here, it's some of the worst experiences we've ever had, to be in a memory marker. We've been given good information. We have good statistics from other countries that show that this has a slightly poorly documented effect on road safety. I am pleased that the Council of State is working on this, but I would like to ask him: How long has he planned this work to take? And when are we going to get it back to Stortinget for treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1567	With regard to the investigation of the health certificate itself – if we are there now – it is a mission that we sent a letter on 4 May. I imagine they're going to work on this beyond the fall. So we'd like the next one to have systematized feedback about this. That's at least what I add up to. In the case of road safety work, there will be continuous work. I was just in Leipzig, at a large OECD meeting with over 50 countries represented. The statistics show that Norway is the safest country to travel in. We're the only country that now has less than 20 deaths per unit of measurement, while the average is 50. Much of Western Europe is close to 100. It shows that we get results from long-term work. The sharp increase we have received in maintenance, which has given many more rumbling fields, is a very good tool. But the work must primarily be directed towards the rush, speed and belt. Yesterday we started a new campaign together with Vegvesen on the lack of attention in traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1574	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1581	The main reason for having a health certificate is road safety, and most European countries have a system similar to the Norwegian one. However, it is important to review the rules to simplify, renew and improve such rules – for the best of drivers and road safety and to reflect the current situation. Today the population lives longer, and health is better. Mobility is greater for older people today than before. That's good. This has led to an increase in the age limit for the health testing of drivers in Norway in 2013 from 70 to 75 years, with particular justification for improving the health of older people. In the case of the Progress Party, it will always be important to simplify the driving licence legislation, including for older people over 75 years. A reasonable simplification may be to remove today's cognitive test and e.g. replace it with an ordinary health test. This will lead to simplification and improvement which will benefit both drivers and authorities and will not have an impact on road safety. In a country like Norway, with great distances, the right to drive is about basic freedom of movement. The Government Parties and the Governments have already taken initiatives with regard to health authorities to obtain a joint assessment of possible simplifications in the current system and will return to the Stortinge in an appropriate manner once the matter has been assessed. In this way, the Stortinge can take the debate, based on the professional assessments being used, discuss them thoroughly and make wise decisions on a significantly better basis. It is therefore a little special that today we are considering a further proposal for a representative to ask the government to start a work that is already under way. It seems like most representatives from the Centre Party, with the good help of the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party, are based on the fact that they are somewhat lagging behind, and therefore want to try to take ownership of political matters. The representative Myrli was in on this to turn open the doors. In my opinion, this is to enter open doors and not least to try to provide guidance on how an investigation should be conducted. Personally, I have to admit that it seems like a very poor strategy and poor use of resources to try to get the bulk of the population to intervene in processes that the government has already initiated. This can lead to a completely different and worse assessment than you would otherwise have. That is why it is important for the Progress Party that the Council of States be given the opportunity to make these assessments, to consider several aspects of it and to present it to the Stortinget as planned, in order to have a good and thorough debate on the matter at that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1594	The representative’s proposal on the basis of today’s case asked for an assessment of the need for the compulsory health certificate and of the design of the tests that older drivers must undergo. Although the majority do not support the specific proposal in the vote, it is clear that there is a consensus that there is a desire to simplify the legislation. Over-regulation in society in general will be avoided, and it is considered unfortunate that Norway should have a more difficult code than our neighbouring countries. All of this could have been done effectively if the Workers' Party and the Centre's proposal to actually implement legislative changes had been implemented. Instead, it is now suggested that the Council of State should come back in an appropriate manner once the matter has been assessed, as has been well explained here. We hope that that assessment is not too far ahead of time, because today's practice needs to be changed for many reasons. This setting refers to a 2010 report, High-risk groups in road traffic. It is the most relevant research material we have in Norway in this area, and it has been developed in cooperation between the Statens vägvesen, SINTEF and Trygg Trafik. Both SINTEF, TØI, VTI in Sweden and IRIS at the University of Stavanger have contributed partial reports. I think we have to listen to research and not make alternative truths. The report concludes, as we have previously heard, that the results do not provide a research basis for setting a general age limit for driving licences. At the same time, we must not least listen to the people involved. At home in Vevelstad we have a retirement union called the "Elder Wave" and members who express that today's rigid system is unnecessarily heavy. There are still many Nordics who don't live centrally. It is time-consuming to travel by speedboats and ferries in District Norway to both a regular and a long-distance traffic station. I think it's a common will to find solutions. The centre party will, of course, make road safety the highest, but it is possible to resolve this in a much simpler way, reducing the enormous time and resource use of today's system for doctors, for traffic stations and for the elderly themselves, and in a way that respects the self-respect and dignity of today's often young people and is spreading 75-year-olds.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1611	This is a funny debate to listen to. I think it is good that we now actually have a Minister of Transport and a Minister of Health who says that this is something you want to do about. I've been in opposition for many years and asked questions about this topic, and it hasn't exactly been like the Center Party has been champions to remake and change this health certificate and look at the scheme. But it's good that when you get into opposition, you suddenly agree with some of the things you didn't agree to when you were in position, and I think you should be happy that we are now taking care to implement this, and that you come back with proposals that just simplify. The most eye-catching thing in this case is that the centre party has become a simplification proposal. I think that's good, because the centre party wasn't exactly very good for it when they were in position – they spent even many years just expanding access to keep the cab until you're 75 years old. So that's good, but now we actually have two ministers who say that this is something you want to do with, and then you want to change the legislation that is today. As the Council of State said, at a meeting he was in the OECD now, it is said that we are now No. 1 and the best in the world with road safety. We're going to be proud of that, and that means we've at least gone up one place and are on the topping in relation to what it was like under the red-green ones. And that's despite, because there were some parties that didn't want to increase speed limits, that didn't want to build so much quadruple highway. We see that despite increasing speed limits, building a more quadruple highway and taking several other steps, the number of accidents goes down, and they have gone down sharply. When I was in opposition under the red-green, we discussed many times different measures on how to reduce the number of accidents on Norwegian roads. It's nice that it goes down, and it shows that it's possible to have more thoughts in your head at once. It has the Progress Party, it has this government, we've shown it in many cases, and you're going to do it here in terms of mandatory health certificates. It has been taken care of, and so you got hold of it before the representative proposal came, so it's really going to open the door completely. I'm glad there's going to be changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1623	It is extremely sad that the government parties today say that they support the initiative to look at the health certification rules for drivers over 75 years of age, but at the same time they vote down the proposal Workers' Party and the Centre Party has promoted. Here we could get a wide majority. The left promotes a concern that this goes across the zero vision. Then I have to point out: the center part means the resource use and the focus on reaching zero vision can be used better than this. We support all the zero vision in traffic in Stortinget. Professional assessments have been made and recordings have been made. The fact that government parties want new assessments and new recordings, which may be more in line with their input, is well known here in Stortinget. What is the objective of a health certificate for individual drivers? Yes, it is to ensure safe traffic and safety for all road users. The reality for those involved is brutal. The most experienced people in society, and potentially in traffic, are exposed to extensive tests of their competence, regardless of their health situation, as long as they are over 75 years of age. We have seen sad cases in which the elderly lose both the ticket and all other certificates. In addition, arms certification is suspended. Life as they know it is over. There are several challenges to today's system. That the design and content of the tests are comprehensive is one, linguistic and practical challenge in the meeting with different doctors is another. Maximum levels for drug use do not consider weight and other factors, which are a third point to problematize. To remember, what should your doctor spend his time on? As this health certificate appears today, it is both suitable drivers who have experienced being deprived of the certificate and unsuitable drivers who have not been deprived of the certificate. The centre party is engaged in the professional assessments made for each individual and the individual’s right to individual assessment. In this context, testing requirements need to be reduced. The parties to the government are behind this, but do not support the proposal for a representative here today. That's too bad. Denmark closed this last year, and I think Norway should definitely consider it. The doctor is sovereign and must still be able to withdraw a driving licence if this is the healthiest. It is about the professional and individual assessment that everyone is entitled to. That's the sin the Senter party's proposal doesn't get majority, but that's the good last word in this case that's not said.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1646	It may seem that there is at least an agreement in this debate on simplification. I have to tell the representative, Mr Bård Hoksrud, who was concerned that the centre party was opposed to simplification, that I believe the representative has to read both the party program and check what the centre party has proposed in this Chamber. I guess there's no one here who's against it. It is, of course, about how to arrive at the simplifications proposed, and not least adopted. What really made me take the floor was Mr Strifeldt's statement that it might seem that most of the representative proposals that are being promoted in this Chamber, in particular from the Central Party, are coming back. I think you should be careful to describe the wishes of others to actually have progress on different issues, in this context of health certificates for older drivers, as if you are in arrears. It is clear that it could have been pleasant for the members of the government parties to sit still in the Chamber and not debate proposals from the government – and to the extent that proposals from an impatient opposition have been put forward. We have seen examples of this, at the latest today, when we were not really going to be there on the agenda, i.e. that matters have arrived early for debate. It has been particularly noticeable in a number of other matters this week that the representatives of the Progress Party in particular have not wanted to debate, for example. during the Andøya debate. I think it's safe to say that everyone wants simplification. I record that you are in the process, but I find it strange that you cannot go for the proposal that has been promoted by the Central Party and the Workers' Party, when it seems, in any case – from the change of lines – that it is what the Council of State is going to propose.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1655	It cannot be denied that the Minister for Transport, in answer to a written question – it was probably from Oddes in the Senterpartiet – briefed the Stortinget on 8 March that he was doing the work. But we've read that answer, and in the answer to Odnes, it says, ‘It is appropriate to consider further developing today’s health certificate rules for driving licences’. The fact that it is relevant to consider further developing today's rules on health certificates is quite different from what the Minister of Transport said in reply to me in the reply to the change of lines, where he said: ‘Required health certificate will be removed.’ Those who say that this is to turn open doors, are completely wrong. The door was not open at all initially. I'm going to stretch to say that the door might have been a little light, but the door was not open, because the Minister of Transport wanted to further develop today's rules on health certificates. It's something other than what we're debating right now. It is good that there is movement in the matter. It is good that the Minister of Transport now says something different than he has said before, but the more strange it is that the government parties cannot vote in favour of the proposal of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Before that, many people thought that women could not drive a car. Many people now believe that older people cannot drive a car. That's not true. The parents in Norway, as a group, are very good at driving a car, and now I think I too can add: ladies are also very good at driving a car. Of course, there are some older people who are not good at driving a car. There are probably some ladies and some men who are not good at driving a car. There are young people, quite a few young people, who are overrepresented in accident statistics, but it's not like we're putting in place heavy test schemes for young people as a group to see if they're fit for car traffic. If one reads the accident statistics, which I think many here have done, one also sees that some immigrants, born in particular in some countries, are overrepresented in accident statistics. But we wouldn't want to make a separate test regime for immigrants as a group from some country, and find a heavy-duty system to test whether they're fit to drive a car. It is also a matter of group thinking that older people over 75 years of age — as a group — are going through a heavy test regime, which probably has very little impact on accident statistics, and which says very little about the suitability of driving a car. But it is good that there is movement in the matter, and I think we are all happy that the Minister of Transport now says that compulsory health certificate should go away.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1676	I don't think I've been a witness to that kind of tile nail business since I've been in high school myself. Now, in this debate on the part of the government parties, we have told you that we want a mandatory health certificate. Then we have said that we need to find a system in which we take care of those who have had such impaired health, regardless of their age, so that – through a message from the health care community to the state's road system – they get restrictions on their driving. I can see that everyone agrees. We can always have a history approach about who thought about this proposal first, so that one can raise the flag a little bit higher than all the others. I think the representative Hoksrud wins that competition, because he brought this up many times while those who are now angry, actually crashed and didn't do anything about it. Yes, it is true that the age limit was raised from 70 to 75 years, but if you look at the answer to a question from representative Torbjørn Røe Isaksen in 2013, one then shows that it was because of EU rules that the Central Party made simplifications. So it was the EU that forced the Senter Party to make simplifications, it wasn't on its own initiative, and it happened at the end of an eight-year period, so no one could say that they worked very hard for the first seven years. Now this happens because the representative Hoksrud and many others have thought that the system has been unreasonable. Then we should go out together and say that now there's a total mass that will make this easier for the elderly, we'll make it easier for the health care system, instead of sitting here and squabbling with each other about commas and dots and tiles and all sorts of things. I just don't understand the point. But as I have said many times, we already notified before the proposal was promoted that this work was going on in the department. Then we had a relatively broad approach. And if a reader reads the press release we sent out on May 4th, we point out that Denmark has removed the requirement for a mandatory health certificate, and that we want to look at how we can do it here as well. It's that simple. I don't understand that we're arguing about it, we should be cheering on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1687	It is gratifying that there is so much agreement that this requirement must be removed or substantially changed because it has so little effect on road safety. I'll give the representative Hoksrud praise for bringing this matter up two years ago. In the newspaper GD, the representative Hoksrud stood with the original case spokesman, Tor André Johnsen, at Mesnabrua, Lillehammer, and said that this was a terriblely unfair and discriminatory system that he wanted to remove. It's been two years. Now it's all of a sudden so that this government is proactive and on, and we're late out. I choose to ignore that. The most important thing about the work — which according to the Council of State is now under way — is that the system is being watched for how one actually performs these tests. The entrance of the centre party is that the health certificate requirement should be removed in the main, possibly facilitated in line with our neighbouring countries, because it is little special when we can risk drivers from Sweden and Denmark running into Norway – with completely different requirements for their driver card and their right to drive a car than what we have in Norway. I believe that this will be a good case for our older people, and I know that there are many. I've had many stories – many of which have been mentioned by others – about how demeaning it is to carry out such a test, and what kind of stress factor this is. The car is a necessary tool to live around the country, and to be able to get to and from the necessary institutions, whether it is a shop, health care or work – no matter what cage, and what age you have.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1698	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1714	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to eight rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1723	First of all, I would like to say as a case rapporteur from the Chair of the Stortinge: the security of the population is the most important thing. When ambulance flight readiness and availability deteriorate, our entire carefully interwoven health network weakens. The Ambulance Service has evolved from being a pure transport service with simple first aid to become an important part of the emergency medical chain in which an advanced treatment is carried out at the most advanced stage. The ambulance service is the hospital's extended arm. Ambulance aviation is a vital tool for all. Today, Stortinget says: The government must ensure the preparedness. The Government of the Council of State is responsible for preparedness. The Minister of Health must ensure that the population of the country is not left standing without critical infrastructure such as ambulance aircraft. It is totally unacceptable for social security. North Norway has a scattered population, long distances, and it's weathering hard. We want people to be able to live all over the country and in places where we are totally dependent on the availability of air ambulances when seconds count. Now, the question is how to ensure preparedness in the best possible way in today's situation. The majority and minorities of the Committee promote proposals that point to solutions, in the short and long term. A majority calls on the government to ensure national air ambulance preparedness, with the necessary measures in the short and long term to achieve stability and predictability in the service. Another majority calls on the government to ensure the proper operation and maintenance of the air ambulances at each base. An overall committee asks the government to ensure the public/ideal operation of the air ambulance service and to return to the Stortinge appropriately. In addition, several minority proposals are promoted for which the parties themselves are allowed to explain. For the Christian People's Party, we are today promoting proposals together with the Workers' Party and the Green Party, where we want to ensure that experience and competence in today's air ambulance service are maintained, either through negotiations with the operator, with a new bid requiring a transfer of activities under the Working Environment Act, or by other appropriate means. It is because the Christian People's Party believes it is important to continue the experience and competence of this service. There's nothing we can just buy. It must be learned, it must be built, and it must be experienced. We are many who believe that the bidding round that has been carried out has been deficient. The problem is that companies have chosen to conclude an agreement that is not good enough. This is the responsibility of the enterprise, and in the view of the Christian People's Party, this is where the main problem lies. The Minister of Health is responsible for ensuring preparedness. He has delegated the performance of the undertakings, which in turn delegate it and defers that service to competition. I would also like to say that companies have been willing to take large risks when they have not requested a business transfer tender or otherwise ensured the transfer of experience competence. The government has to deal with a situation in which the population and health professionals experience that there is a risk to life and health. It's unacceptable. Then ask someone: why doesn't the Christian People's Party like the party Red and go for the cancellation of the tender? My answer is that I am not sure that cancellation is the only solution here. Maybe it's a path, and I don't want to exclude a termination of the contract and an urgent offer, but if the government manages to secure this in other ways or through negotiation, I think we're more people who have learned through the treatment of this case that there are different ways to ensure experience, precisely because we see that it's important to secure this service. We believe that it is possible to find other solutions. The point is that we get an experience competence and that it goes on. With this I take up the proposal Christian People's Party has promoted together with the Center Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1744	The representative of Olaug V. Bollestad has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1749	It is a serious matter that we are discussing today, following an urgent examination of the Committee and a broad consultation – as the rapporteur also stated in his statement. The approach clearly criticises the Minister of Health for violations of medical preparedness. The bidding process has been deficient and the consultation also showed that the necessary risk analyses were not carried out. Heavy professional advice was overlooked several times in the new tender process, and central managers of the health services of the Council of State have acted with a weak sense of role, which in turn has distrusted the process. What is at issue is the fundamental security of life and health. In Norway, residents are entitled to medical treatment and emergency medical care. Under the responsibility of the Minister of Health and the Government, this preparedness has been breached. Aeroplanes have been grounded, and key personnel are at risk of termination. I want to commend everyone who works in the service for ensuring the safety of patients while they themselves have experienced great insecurity for their own jobs and their own future. Because of their efforts, life has not been lost, and we shall be grateful for that. In North Norway, this service can best be described as a hospital on wings, especially in Finnmark. Since significant parts of the emergency services for Finnmark’s population are covered via the University Hospital in Tromsø, the transport of the most seriously damaged and conditions requiring a comprehensive acute treatment regime using a number of specialities will be carried out on ambulance aircraft. All cardiac and thoracic surgery and all neurosurgery for this population are now performed at the University Hospital of North Norway. In acute heart attack where PCI is needed, Tromsø must be visited as quickly as possible, and people with severe mental illness in Finnmark have their nearest acute psychiatric institution in Tromsø. The Minister of Health and the Government must also be aware of the discomfort of a fixed person if he meets a young child who has difficulty breathing, does not respond to treatment and needs acute paediatric intensive treatment, and no ambulance aircraft are available. In the emergency medical chain, the air ambulance is the most important service to ensure the highest possible level of health provision for the entire population of the country, regardless of where you live. In the transition to the operator switching, which is the source of the crisis that has occurred, there must be no uncovered or unsecured time periods. Then there is a danger to life and health. This is the state council that has the overall responsibility to ensure, and here he has unfortunately failed. The base of this service is not the aircraft, it is the experienced personnel: pilots, technicians, rescuers and other important support personnel. This is the main resource, which should have been included in the service – regardless of the operator's company logo. Today, the Minister of Health is given clear instructions from Stortinget. But good decisions in the Storting will not solve this, it requires the Council of State to do what is needed – that the Council of State ensures that the rights of medical treatment and safety for life and health, which the Storting has given to citizens by law, are fulfilled. If not, Stortinget will come back with an even stronger criticism than the one in the setting we are dealing with today. It is feared that the problems will continue beyond the summer, and the next week looks gloomy in order to maintain sufficient preparedness, it is reported from the emergency clinic at the University Hospital in Tromsø. We expect the Council of State to act. I will present proposal No. 1 which is behind the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, and also resolved proposal No. 10, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Green Party – although I'm not sure if the representative of Bollestad brought it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1766	The representative, Mr Kjerkol, then brought up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1771	On Friday 27 April, the ambulance aircraft were on the ground all over the country because the pilots had signed up ‘not fit for flight’. The reason was a conflict between the pilots of the current operator, Air Transport AS, and the new operator, Babcock. Ambulance flights are an important part of the health care in North Norway and important for people to feel safe. They are also an important part of preparedness in the rest of the country. The situation that arose then was very serious. The size today calls on the government to ensure air ambulance preparedness throughout the country, with the necessary measures in the short and long term to create stability and predictability in the service. It is important to clarify that this is exactly what you have done, since it became clear that the current operator was no longer able to deliver in line with the contract entered into. The Minister of Health, but not least all employees have been in a difficult situation. Since 14 May, preparedness has been equal or better than normal. Ensuring the safety of the population is what matters. The tender concluded will enter into force next summer. The new operator assures us that they are ready in good time before this. In fact, they can take over some of the obligations before that. Aviation is a highly complex sector, both technically and for regulatory and safety reasons. Aviation requires a completely different competence from that currently held by healthcare. It is therefore not a matter of competence that it is natural for the specialist healthcare service to be built on its own. It should not be the task of the health service to operate a separate carrier. Nevertheless, the Committee recommended that the service be operated publicly. We believe it is then natural to do so, while considering ideal operation. We are then given a good basis to decide how this service is to be organised in the future. Air ambulance services in Norway have been provided by private suppliers for a long time. Since an established national service in 1988, it has been organised in this way. We have a long tradition of working with private people, and the private actors have also pioneered the development and operation of the air ambulance service in Norway. Over 40 years they've built a world-class air ambulance service. About every ten years, the fleet is renewed and the quality of the service is increased by competitive outsourcing. This security has been built up and is based on private providers. It is therefore strange to see the need for this to be resolved publicly. The purpose of inviting professional suppliers to competition is to facilitate the best possible use of public resources, despite all limited public resources. This is because we have an obligation to manage public money in the most efficient way possible. But if one does not get more out of public resources, it would in the long run put all welfare benefits under pressure. Of course, this also applies to the purchase of air ambulance services. Good procurement can provide a better air ambulance service and release resources for use in other specialised health services, including: in the North of Health. We can see that in this offer. The greatest differences between the previous tenders are higher quality and preparedness requirements, including, inter alia: improved navigation equipment, medical equipment and more modern aeroplanes. There is no majority in Stortinget to cancel the contract entered into, and we should be happy for that. This would mean that the entire air ambulance service was involved, and that one had to conclude new agreements in a short time, possibly establishing the public service. One thing is to break legally entered into contracts, with the legal and economic consequences this would give. Another thing is that it would put the state that buys in a bad light and increase the political risk for anyone who wants to provide services to the public, because that is how public is a great buyer of private services in many sectors, and then one has to appear tidy. A third thing is that the public has to facilitate the most effective governance structure, where the Storting adds the framework and delegates to the government to carry out the tasks of the state. But all of this is secondary to ensuring the security of the population so that they can trust that they get help when they need it, where they are. In order to ensure the service while the existing operator announces that they have operational challenges, the Council of State has put in place the necessary measures. Emergency plans have been drawn up and are ready to take further action if necessary to provide security.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1788	There is no doubt that this case shows how important services the employees and those in charge of this provide for society. They provide you with safe and good services and the help you need when you need it. There is no doubt that in the north there has been great commitment, and I have a great understanding of that, because it creates uncertainty and uncertainty. Maybe especially in Finnmark we've seen a huge commitment, and it shows how important it is for people in Finnmark to be sure that you get help when you need it. One of the most important things in life for us people is to feel safe – safe that doctors and health professionals can quickly come home to those who are sick, secure that the police quickly take responsibility when something criminal happens, secure that firefighters come to put an end to fires. In a recent commercial film, we hear about today's superheroes, which are just referred to as health and emergency personnel, police and firefighters. But what if superheroes meet challenges that are difficult to deal with, such as long and complicated travel, bad weather or other unforeseen events? Then there is a plan, an emergency plan with extra resources to put in. This is a little bit of the background because we're here today, that the plan might have broken a little bit. Ambulance preparedness in Finnmark is cracking. People's security has been weakened, and there is a great deal of uncertainty and uncertainty, especially in Finnland. We can't have it that way. Following a tendering process in which the current responsible company, air transport, lost the tender, the company has experienced that several pilots have looked after new jobs and finished. It's natural. Superheroes also need money for food on the table. This led the company to state that they cannot guarantee safety and health protection. New company, Babcock, takes over about one year, and they believe that they will have enough aeroplanes and pilots available as agreed. Losing a contract doesn't mean you can just lean back. The company continues to have an obligation to ensure that it can continue to deliver until the contract expires next year. This means that this company is also responsible for doing what they can to ensure that the preparedness is as it should be, and that the inhabitants of Finnmark, Troms and Nordland can be confident that they will get help when they need it. The Executive Director of the company has stated that they cannot guarantee safety and health protection. This is serious, and I believe it is a major challenge, but I expect Health Nord, together with the company that operates today, to take responsibility and take action to ensure that the preparedness is good enough until the new company takes over the next year. They believe that they will have enough planes and pilots available as agreed. Red wants to cancel the agreement with Babcock, and I wonder what they think we're going to achieve with it. Still a lack of pilots. In addition, the State will have a clumsy fine for a breach of contract. No, I don't think the solution is to cancel the tendering process. My important question is what we do to ensure the Finnish mark-ups in the meantime – until the new operators take over. More concrete measures have already been put in place here. The tendering process itself is not the only thing that comes under the scrutiny when people become unsafe. The entire emergency chain is being re-examined – not so strange, it's people's security we're actually talking about. Earlier this year, the Progress Party, together with the Left, has proposed that the Stortinget ask the government to launch an independent comprehensive investigation of the hospital structure in West Finland, including the ambulance preparedness. Unfortunately, we did not reach a majority on the Stortinget for that. The hospital structure in West Finland was also an important topic during the government negotiations at Jeløya, and the result is that Health Nord was commissioned on 26 February this year to carry out a process with the municipalities in West Finland as the natural parishes of Klinik Alta, to assess whether there are offers that are natural to establish in addition to what is already planned and commissioned today. This work we know is started, and it's very good. The Alta specialist health service is to be strengthened by the construction and renovation of approx. 5000 m 2 at the current Alta health centre. The construction will be completed in 2019 and the provision of the population will be significantly strengthened. Many functions are in the process of being established. We believe the government is in the process of building up a sound health service in Alta. An overall committee calls on the government to ensure air ambulance preparedness across the country and to carry out public/ideal operations. But this is a little bit in the future. The Health Minister assures us of the present and that he and Health Nord are doing what they can to ensure that it is under control, and I choose to trust that. At the same time, I cannot help but react when there are so many feedback from Alta about experiences of insecurity. Nor can I save myself from the fact that there are elements in this type of tendering process that should be looked at. For this reason, the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have proposed that the Stortinget ask the Government to evaluate the tender process concerning the air ambulance service and use the experience of the further process. If the proposal is not taken up, I'll take it up now.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1812	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1817	The country's health preparedness is in crisis, and the last who understood this were the ones who put responsibility on the floor, who don't listen to professionals on the floor. Only the happy and persistent efforts of the health services have prevented life from being lost. Women born in the north are now asked to plan their own births in order to avoid urgent transport. The defense has deployed a helicopter in peacetime. The question is whether Minister of Health Höie, as the chief in charge of the basic medical response, can defend the health professionals who, in this situation, on hearing, state that they do not see that they could have done anything else, which says that they hope, believe, expect and work to be safe in the future, but who cannot guarantee it or take responsibility for it – health business directors who do not understand their own responsibilities, as an explanation of why they do not set requirements for action transfer that would prevent the mobility of pilots and other key personnel, health business managers who do not understand their own responsibilities. The Minister for Health, Mr Höie, has not understood this either. These are services facing the most extensive operator change since the air ambulance was created in 1988, but this supply process did not require the securing of key personnel, and business transfer requirements were not set. The health service had decided in advance: it would be competitive on the pay and working conditions of those added to save money. This has led to a flight from today's operator. 13 pst. pilots have already finished. Aero-engineering assesses the same thing. Competence is the cause of the crisis we're in. Governments and health professionals do not value experience and competence — the main resource of the service. It was competition that was the most important thing. As Managing Director of the HF Air ambulance Service, Øyvind Juell, stated to Altaposten on 9 February 2018: «Tender competitions contribute to innovation in many areas, including pay and working conditions for employees.» It can't be said, can it? The concept of ‘utilisation’ has given rise to a new currency, which has led to a national emergency crisis. And if we're going to trust what the directors say, there's reason to believe that they've been given a mandate from political leadership and government councils to conduct a bidding competition without a corporate transfer, which has led to the situation we're in. The supply process in the air ambulance service is a scandal and has so many critical facts that the contract has to be cancelled. The board of directors of Health Nord RHF was clearly involved in the proceedings. She was present at the Governing Board meeting in May 2017, where they adjusted the financial framework in line with the Babcock offer, and then authorised the AD meeting to conclude the contract. The terms and conditions of employment of air transport were leaked by the health club of Babcock, as water was offered. Winning offers scora the worst on standby and quality because they cut in planes and pilots. Yet they won the offer. The price was more important than the country's preparedness. A risk and vulnerability analysis was not carried out. The contingency effect of a loss of key personnel was not evaluated. The plan for possible compensatory measures was not implemented. That leaders, from government councils to health leaders, also do not take self-criticism, are almost the worst. How can we accept that our public health system is headed in such a way, and how can a government council let this happen? It was an alarming disaster. The HF air ambulance is hiding behind the EEA Agreement, and what we think is unprofessional. The legal statements of 2015 that Stortinget had to press out of the Council of State yesterday do not contain a single word about EEA law. The standing of the EEA Regulation in the way of a transfer of assets has been rejected by several of the country’s leading law experts. The procurement rules do not aim at opening up competition in terms of pay and working conditions. Government policy has only led to one thing: pilots and technicians find jobs in others. We think it's gonna be enough. We do not compete on the pay and working conditions of those added. This case also clearly shows that the health care model is not an appropriate way to hire our healthcare system. We get responsibility powdering, renting without anchoring and lack of popular governance, which is probably an example of this model having to be scrapped. With this, I would like to address the suggestions of the Centre Party in the setting, together with SV, and the suggestions we have with SV and Red, which are distributed in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1839	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1845	The crisis in the air ambulance has put life and health at risk. It's just funny that life hasn't been lost. Flax! Is this what the government here has been committed to? It is only a shame that no one has been seriously injured or even killed because of the government and the Minister of Health's inability to take action. When the planes are on the ground, when there are too few at work, people are not picked up in time when they need health care. People have to get needed health care wherever they live. It should not depend on whether you live in the north, in the south, in the west, or in the east; there should be nothing to say if the hospital is two bus stops away or 37 miles away where you live. But the crisis is still unsolved, and the government appears to be more paralysed than ever, rather than taking direct control and control. Already in 2016, the Führerverbund met with the Minister of Health. They warned that a tender without a transfer of activities would lead to a crisis in the air ambulance service. They got it right in. We are already at full speed to lose the competence and experience built up over the year. This is the announcement. But now the report on a notified crisis has become the report of a planned crisis. The legal considerations from when the tender was drawn up in 2015, we received yesterday – yesterday! This information should have been shared a long time ago. It is difficult for me to understand that these have been kept secret, unless it has been to protect the Council of State from criticism. These assessments make it clear how to avoid requiring business transfer. So we went into the tendering process knowing that a new operator had to make sure that central personnel did not go further. It's scary, because what we in SV have been busy about all along is to ensure the competence – don't tell it off. I only have five minutes at my disposal, and I am therefore unable to take up all the skeletons that have fallen out of the closet while we have dealt with this matter. There has been a lack of clarity about issues of sustainability, the ambiguity about sensitive information that has been shared, the uncertainty about the legal basis and about documents that have been sent out recently. So how can we trust that we have the whole picture today, and that proper action is being taken to solve this acute crisis? The sum of this, in addition to obvious shortcomings in the tendering process, means that we consider it necessary to cancel the contract, to require a transfer of activities in a new round and to review the process. This is not just a discussion or a political game. It's about human life and health, it's about human life beings being lost. State Council Bent Höie's lack of action to prevent and resolve the crisis in the ambulance aviation service is highly critical. I would therefore like to promote the proposals put forward by SV alone, and resolve proposal No. 15, of which we're part.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1862	The representative Sheida Sangtarash has then taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1867	Air ambulances are about caring for the lives and health of Norwegian patients. There is no one in doubt about it in this room. The present case concerns a company that has an obligation to follow up the terms of a contract concluded with the State. The company has taken on one of the most important tasks, which the Stortinget and the government have given it: to bring sick and injured people to the best available hospital services. The issue today is not a failure of a political responsibility, but a company that, on 27 April of this year, for various reasons, was unable to discharge its contractual obligations, which in turn created doubts and insecurity in the population. Nevertheless, this is not the cause of the breakdown in air transport’s operator’s responsibility, on which I will sacrifice most of the time when we are debating this matter today. This is a responsibility that I feel the government has fully absorbed in the time that has passed since April 27, when all air transport aircraft were on the ground. I also refer to the majority comments in the vote that state that since 14 May the preparedness has been equal or better than what it should normally be. The reason for this is two helicopters and an airplane with which the service is complemented. I'd rather talk about another responsibility that's incumbent on us all here, we who have the opportunity to get a better understanding of this issue than the general population. Insecurity and anxiety have an actual side to them. There may be very specific reasons why we don't feel safe. Most of us are able to recognize a danger when we see it. In this sense, there is no need to reduce the anxiety that unrelentingly spreads with reports that such an essential service as the air ambulance service is on the ground. But anxiety also has a psychological component. It is nourished by politicians and professionals who refuse to take on the fact that from the day one in this situation, the Minister for Health has managed it in a way that has, firstly, maintained the air ambulance preparedness in a way that no one else has been able to provide a sustainable alternative to – not the representative Kjerkol, not her party leader or anyone else who has spoken in this matter, including the proposer – and secondly has prepared the transition to a new operator in a highly affordable way. Instead of realizing this, some environments, mentioned by the proposer, have helped to escalate a sense of insecurity by giving the impression that the crisis that has arisen is out of control. It's not. Then someone pointed out that the invitation to tender itself could have been better handled. It's a problem that belongs to the future. Now there is a broad consensus that a tendering process needs to be reviewed to ensure that we do not get back into such a situation. I know that the Minister of Health will start working immediately. The left has no dogmatic relationship with state or private activities. For us, it's important to be pragmatic about this. Sometimes the private competition system works, such as: when private nursery nurseries hindered the introduction of the principle of kindergarten to all. At other times, public operations can be the right thing to do. It becomes a little bit like the principle of China's former leader Deng Xiaoping that it's not important whether the cat is black or white, just it's catching mice. I'm glad we're getting an investigation into the state operation of the air ambulance service. I have said in the past that I have little faith in this, but the Left is a party that believes in knowledge and experience. I'm meeting the investigation with an open mind, which is not the same as a hole in my head.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1884	The current situation is more difficult than we can accept. That's what Erna Solberg said to the media a month ago. She had it and she's got it right. Last week I visited an acute medical clinic at the hospital in Tromsø. The message from there was clear: the crisis is not over. But the crisis should not come as a surprise to anyone. Three years ago, Bent Höie received the investigation from the Emergency Committee. They warned in clear order that an operator switching could break the good interaction that had been established over many years between the operator and the health care provider, and they proposed a thorough investigation of the public operation of the air ambulance service. Haye disregarded these vital advice, left the report in a drawer and let the destructive tendering process go its way. Today, we are dealing with Red's proposal to prevent the collapse of the ambulance service. On one point, Red is given broad support today, namely to outlaw the public operation of the service. It is time, and in my view, it is hopefully the beginning of a necessary settlement with the failure of the tendering regime in the health sector. As long as the service is open to tender, we may increase our competence every six years. We cannot accept this for a service that is responsible for the security of life and health of the population and which also has important national emergency services. But the long-term reverse operation does not solve today's crisis. We must resolve the current crisis, which threatens people's security, which is particularly severe in the north, but which is also a national crisis. We have been told these weeks that the health directors chose the cheapest and not the best offer, and did not demand that the personnel with their essential competence should follow over. And as it turned out yesterday, the management of the health company has emboldened the Storting when they claimed that it would be contrary to the EEA rules to require the staff to join us. Red does not believe that this crisis will be resolved unless the contract with Babcock is terminated and the tendering process is cancelled. But we're not going to doubt that this has to be solved exactly the way we're asking for it. The main challenge in the current crisis now is how the operator of air transport bleeds decisive flight and technician competence because Babcock has to take over. Maintaining today’s personnel, both pilots and flight technicians, is essential for the ambulance aircraft not to be on the ground until the harvest. If the employees are not assured, the service will collapse. Therefore, the compromise proposal from the Red Party, the Centre Party and the SV today requires the government to ensure the continuation of current staff in the service, with their competence and experience. There is nothing here to cancel the contract with Babcock or to extend the contract with Air Transport. We are far from giving the Minister of Health room for action, but we are not giving up an inch on what is absolutely vital. This case shows that the government places the tendering regime over the individual’s concerns and indicates that Babcock can take over before the plan. I would warn against putting the lives and health of the inhabitants in the hands of a company without an organization, without competence, without structures, the bar of credibility and supporting both professional and political. The matter does not end here today. We want a most binding decision. But I want to say to Bent Höie, no matter what the outcome: we're going along, we're impatient and worried on behalf of the population, and I don't think the majority of the population will have any special understanding if the government doesn't act immediately and act quickly and decisively.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1901	Ambulance aeroplanes are an important part of health preparedness in Norway. Especially in North Norway, the service is essential for people to feel safe about getting the necessary health care. I therefore look very seriously at the situation that has arisen. We're in a difficult period, but at the same time health care shows itself from the very best of all. Both personnel and resources are mobilised to find solutions that best safeguard the security of the population. This applies to all actors. Although the situation has been challenging for healthcare and some patients have experienced waiting, this has not had a serious impact on life and health. Thank you to everyone who is on the scene when this kind of extraordinary situation arises. During the last three weeks, the preparedness has been good, both because Air Transport AS has mainly delivered good preparedness and because of the additional measures put in place. My main priority and the government's responsibility is to ensure that the population has the most normal, good preparedness – even if today's operator has greater problems in the future with aircraft and crew. That is why we have put in place a number of measures to ensure preparedness. Two helicopters from Defense have been sent to Finnmark on partial standby. We hire extra ambulances and can hire more if necessary. After my trip to Bodø and Tromsø on 5 May, I asked Health Nord for an action plan to improve air ambulance preparedness in both the short and long term. This was submitted on 7 May and updated and extended on 29 May. I also received a supplementary action plan on 4 June. It contains a risk and vulnerability analysis of different scenarios and describes a number of new risk mitigation measures if the situation worsens. The most relevant measure is to allow the new operator, Babcock, to gradually take over some of the air ambulance bases if the situation so requires. The new contract ensures better preparedness than the current one. It will include, among others: new short-haul aeroplanes at all bases that will improve navigation equipment and safety equipment on board. The service gets a jet plane, replacing today's propeller aircraft, on the Gardermoen. Jet planes can be speeded up, for example: to Svalbard and North Norway, with more equipment, more doctors and on-board nurses. A rear guard crew is inserted, which may be picked up in case of sickness and absence. The representative of Moxnes believes that I am more concerned with the acquisition law than with the patient rights law, but it is the representative of Moxnes who is constantly drawing the acquisition law into the debate, a law that the representative is proposing today to be broken. If the Storting decides to break the laws of the country, as proposed, it is – at best – impeccable. The air ambulance service has carried out five billion acquisitions in recent years without leading to a complaint to the KOFA or to other legal proceedings, including the last one. Another theme that has re-examined in the policy change is the need for a transfer of activities. Since the air ambulance service became a health business in 2004, five large acquisitions have been carried out, all of which have no business transfer requirements. Two of these were carried out under the red-green government. In the context of the new acquisition in 2007, Norwegian Flyerförbund reported a concern in the consultation related to the transfer of personnel, but not then, while the Workers' Party, the Senterpartiet and SV were in government, demands were made for business transfer. A third theme that has emerged is the question of public takeover of the operational operation of the air ambulance service. In December 2015, the Emergency Committee presented a comprehensive investigation with over 100 proposals for action, and the government has followed up many of them. The investigation was in consultation until 21 March 2016. Although the proposal for a public acquisition had been followed up immediately after the hearing, this would probably not have affected these two new acquisitions. In any event, the service had to be tendered so that new contracts were in place at the end of the two existing contracts. These are tendering procedures which take a long time to prepare and implement. The Government will follow up on the Committee's proposal and will conduct public non-profit-making work on the air ambulance service, which is also being set up by the Committee today, and will return to the Stortinget in an appropriate manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1922	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1927	The last signal is positive, it's just a shame that not that review was done immediately when the Emergency Committee came up with its recommendation. Then we would have been wiser now and come closer to a conclusion. It is interesting to hear the Minister of Health describe an extraordinary and serious situation, while the representative Grimstad says that it is handled with impreciseness. It's a little distance there. There was a clear warning to this bidding process about the vulnerability of personnel, who were promoted from the pilots' association, from the LO, from important people who know with their shoes what this is all about. I understand that the Ministry of Health followed up with the HF Air ambulance service by saying that this had to be included in the assessment. It wasn't done. My first question to the Minister of Health is this: Is he satisfied with the follow-up to the enquiry by the Ministry of Health? Did he settle down on that? And who is above all responsible for following up such considerations? Is it the Minister of Health, or is it the health business?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1936	In the same way as in 2007, when the representative himself was in the government, the professionalised pilots notified a concern about the transfer of personnel. We then had a political meeting on this, where we agreed on how to deal with that concern. We ended up asking them to write a note on this. That note contained two issues. The one issue referred to the importance of a Norwegian company with Norwegian rights in force between social partners. The second was related to the business transfer issue. What we agreed on was that they would write the note, and we would send it over to the head of the HF air ambulance service. It was done, and we got a positive feedback from the trade unions that this was handled in a good way by the department. The circumstances were assessed, and it is known that the first relationship was taken into account, but the second was not, for legal reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1941	Yes, and then we're on question No. 2 in the case of the legal grounds. During the presentation, which the Council of State held here on 15 May, he said: ‘There is no basis for claiming other than that competition has been implemented in line with the fundamental principles of procurement law: competition, non-discrimination, predictability, transparency and reprobability.’ Those who followed the Storting hearing received feedback from those involved in this competition that there have been a little different experiences with it. It could be helpful to hear if the Council of State stands firm in this statement. Did this tender process and the rounds take place fully in line with the basic principles of the procurement rules?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1955	Yes, I have no information that would provide anything else. It is also part of the case that this is a tender which, in line with the four previous tenders made by the same organisation, has not been lodged with KOFA, and no legal action has been taken. That is the way in which a person deals with this if a loses a tender and considers that the tender has not been carried out in accordance with those principles. In Norway, we have a system of both KOFA and, of course, legal action. It is not done in this case either. I am not aware that information has come up that makes what I said in Stortinget at the time, not today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1960	The core of the case is a lack of business transfer, so that air transport can keep its professionals and thus provide us with the necessary preparedness. From a meeting of the Cooperation Council on 8 February 2018 between the health companies and Babcock Scandinavian Air Ambulance, it became case No. 5 Protocols: ‘Implementation – status presented by Hilde Shurlv’, project manager for Babcock. And on the other hand, ‘LAT HFs’ — i.e. the HFs Air ambulance service — ‘was the role of implementing a competition based on premises set from a political perspective. There would have been no sense of competition if there had been a requirement for a transfer of business.» In his comments, he said that there were previous tendering procedures without a transfer of activities. Can the Council of States therefore confirm the content of this report?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1978	No, no political leadership has been given that this offer should not use an activity transfer. On the contrary, as I explained in my reply to the representative Gahr Støre, we chose to send a note from the trustees who have just addressed this concern. But as the representative Lundtigen is aware, this issue is complicated and legal. They contain both legal and competitive aspects. I think it is wise that those who sit and are responsible for carrying out a tender in line with the legislation are those who ultimately take the overall assessment of what requirements can be made. But everyone also knows that in the points of the tender documents. 3.5. all those who were to submit tenders for this competition were made aware that this could involve a transfer of activities under the Working Environment Act. So the risks had to be taken by those who submitted tenders.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1985	The Council of State therefore says that the record is wrong – the record of a number of health business participants. The Council of State further states that previously there was no requirement for a transfer of activities by the Council of State. Now it was quite clear whether or not it was to be set. Then my next question concerns the note from Wikborg Rein dated 26 November 2015, where the lawyers say that there is a significant legal risk not to claim a transfer of business. Was the Council aware of this legal assessment before the tender to Babcock?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e1992	Firstly, I have not said that the record is wrong. The report may be quite correct – I was not present at the meeting and do not know what was said there. What I answered to the representative, Lundtigen, was whether I had given political leadership in order not to demand a transfer of business. If someone has claimed it, it's wrong. So, of course, I was not familiar with this document – this is an internal legal advice to the Air Ambulance Service HF. That note just led to the fact that, in the point of the basis for competition, 3.5 all the operators who pointed out that a result of this offer could be a situation in which there was a transfer of activities under the Environmental Protection Act. That was the consequences of that note, which the representative Lundteg draws up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e2001	I am aware that the Council of State was not present, for it is clear from the record that he was not present. But what's in the Minutes is that ‘LAT HF’s role was to conduct a competition based on premises set from a political point of view.’ And on the other hand, ‘There would have been no sense of competition if there had been a requirement for a transfer of business.’ The Council of State must be able to respond to whether he is in possession of that record — whether it is in accordance with the will of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e2016	I've now answered that twice. No leads have been given from me on the matter of business transfer. What was said at that meeting, whether the minutes are correct or one, almost those who were present at that meeting must respond.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e2021	Yesterday, the Stortinget got access to legal considerations that have been a very important basis in this matter – both a legal opinion from 2015, on which the representative Lundteg was involved, and a new one, which did not come back that long, from 2018. When did Minister of Health Bent Höie get acquainted with these legal considerations? When did he get insight or knowledge of them?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e2026	If there was transparency about the question of whether it was a business transfer, I got insight into it in connection with some of the questions that I answered in Stortinget. This is also evident from the answer to question No. 3 in letter No. 2 attached to the Committee. As the representative is also aware, the first of these letters, from 2015 onwards, was a legal recital related to the purchase of ambulance helicopters, from which an experience was also used, and which resulted in points. 3.5 in the basis of competition. With regard to the second document, there is a written statement of part of the advice received orally to the HF in assessing whether an activity transfer would be required prior to that tender.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e2035	When representatives of the government parties were in the pulpit, they said it was not a health duty to operate an airline. Air ambulance is, according to my concepts, something far more than a transport company and an airline. I think it's the hospital's extended arm. There's a high-level hospital. It's advanced hospital operations to save people. Does the Council of State consider the air ambulance service to be an ordinary air transport company, or is it actually part of healthcare?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e2040	It is definitely part of healthcare. It is also the case that there are health care staff on board both the aircraft and the helicopters to ensure that healthcare is provided. With regard to the issue of operating an airline that also provides this type of service with both aircraft and helicopters, I see that the point of the representatives of the government parties was that it is not safe it is health services that are most suitable to operate these types of activities, because it is another type of activity. It's very complicated. It is also part of the story that in Norway we have very good experience with the Norwegian Air Ambulance Foundation, which actually started to build up this service, and has carried on large parts of the helicopter service. Should a government make this service, had just cut the ties to what was really the origin, which I feel also has broad support in the Norwegian population.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e2045	It is Höie who has referred to the tendering rules. It's Höie who has acted like Babcock's business attorney and talked about a breach of the acquisition law. But what he should care about is the crime of the people's statutory right to emergency health care because of the crisis we now have in the air ambulance service. So the government has full confidence that Babcock will do the service well when they take over July 1st next year. But a company that is not yet an established and approved Norwegian airline, how can they be on the route when they do not have people, hangars, aircraft, approved pilots or established relations with the health service? Can we get an answer as to whether Babcock is established as an approved carrier in Norway today? According to the Minister, how many pilots do the company have to take over bases already during the summer? How many pilots do they employ today?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e2050	It may seem to the representative that I am this company's business spokesperson, but I am not. That is why I think the representative should ask those questions to the company and not to me. What is quite clear is that today they are helping to relieve the burden by making planes and crew available. All the plans that exist show that they're on track to take over on 1 July, and there's no reason to doubt it. They have also announced that they will be able to take over one of the bases within three months, and that is one of the measures we can put in if Air Transport AS has problems fulfilling its contract. My main exposure in this matter is precisely about the security of the population. That is why the measures have been put in place, which have produced results in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e2056	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e2063	I thought I'd start my post with four p's: pasta salad, pesto, pine kernels and prehospital services. This may seem a bit strange to the president, but I thought it might be okay with a reminder of what this matter is really about, and what it means for people. Last summer I was in a family team on an island on the Helgeland coast, when a teenager accidentally ate pasta salad with pesto. In pesto, there are usually pine kernels, which gave a rash on the female’s nut allergy. With squeezing in the neck and tight chest it was necessary to call a doctor. In Ski Municipality, where I live, I could take my baby in the car and stay with the doctor in five minutes. Not everyone in our country has that opportunity, especially those who live on an island where the last ferry has gone for the day, and it would have been a couple of hours to the mainland anyway. For the girl with the nut allergy, the solution was that the doctor brought the helicopter. When she was assessed as stable, she was sent with the boat ambulance to the hospital for observation overnight. It is precisely the prehospital services that enable us to provide our citizens with equivalent health care. For example, for the inhabitants of Alta, it is absolutely necessary to have an air bridge for specialists and services at other hospitals in Tromsø and Hammerfest. An air bridge is more than one aeroplane or helicopter. It's primarily about people with experience and competence, people who can provide the lifesaving health care, and who start treatment before coming to the hospital, people who can fly in demanding conditions, winter every summer. It is precisely the critical competence of the Norwegian Führerverband that was so concerned when they contacted the political leadership of the Ministry of Health and Welfare in August 2016. They warned that the air ambulance service could be at risk of being found due to pilot flight and said that the service had to be secured by requiring pilot transfer of operations. A main conclusion in the transmitted note was, among other things, business transfer requirements: ‘This ensures continuity in the level of experience and prevents the risk of a mass flow of operational experience over the two intermediate years from the award of tender contracts to the start of a new operator.’;» These warnings were not listened to, and now we see the results. At the Alta base, seven of the fifteen pilots have finished in the spring. Earlier in the session, Stortinget examined a proposal for a representative on the hospital structure in West Finland. The majority concluded that today’s structure is solid, a structure that is completely dependent on well-functioning and safe prehospital services. In its statement, the Council of State confirmed that preparedness has been reduced and remains unstable. The Committee considers that the current uncertainty in preparedness is not acceptable. There can't be any uncertainty as to whether people who are acutely ill get help. It is totally unacceptable for social security. These are strong words, and there is an overall committee behind them.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e2079	It was quite incredible to hear the representative of the Left Party suggesting that the parties who have taken up this matter have a hole in their heads, and that politicians and professionals have helped to escalate the situation by creating an unnecessary sense of public insecurity. It is to me an incomprehensible trivialization of the situation of the representative Grimstad, whom I really hope the other parties in the government do not stand behind. Business transfer is a very central word in this case. This is a notified crisis, a crisis in which security of life and health lies in the pot. This crisis could probably have been avoided had claims for business transfer been made in the tender. At that time, employees had been given security for their jobs, and then they had gained experience and skills that have contributed to saving lives for decades. I think it is a concern that the state makes provision for it to be competitive under the pay and working conditions of the labour force when tendering for important services for the community. In this way, this matter has certainly been a waker to many. For this reason, the Workers' Party is in agreement with SV and the Centre Party behind proposal No. 1 on business transfer. As politicians, we have to work for those who have chosen us – people who want security when they get sick, people who want security in their job and for their jobs. For me, who was formerly a state politician, it is a paradox that the county councils where I come from ensure the jobs of the drivers in the public transport sector when new bus contracts are going to be tendered, while the much larger state is unable to do the same in its tenders. This means hiding behind what is, at best, a wretched and unclear legal assessment of whether business transfer is possible or not, and which has been far-reachingly refuted in retrospect. But we're also looking at other areas of this challenge. A week ago, workshop workers and cleaners in the Norwegian Railway Association went to a political strike because they fear for their jobs in connection with the government's postponement of the Norwegian railway. Nor are they guaranteed in a business transfer. One thing is that we can disagree on the question of tenders. But is this the government want the money to be saved? In that case, it's petty, and that's not how we take care of those who have chosen us to make their everyday life a little better. It's hard to guarantee 100 pst. for people's jobs, but at least we can help those who work for the community after a call for tenders to be sure that whoever wins the competition keeps the job. And we should have such propriety that the working conditions of ordinary people should not be where the state states that companies participating in the tenders should pick up their margins. It will be a good contribution both to a more decent working life and to ensuring that the services we need are actually provided, and that it is done by people with a high level of competence, with experience — as in this case of the air ambulance service.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e2096	The mission of the Grandfather and the government by having the jobs they have is not to misunderstand. We need to ensure life and health, it has first priority. Nothing should get in the way of that assignment. It's the fundamental, it's the bottom plank of putting on a job, and that's what's going to be challenged in this case. That's what this government is willing to sacrifice – offer at any price. I thought the post to Hoksrud was interesting, he thinks that the plan of Höie might have begun to crack crack. I think I'm starting to approach an admission, that one takes over and admits that one is in a crisis. The entry to Grimstad was perhaps one of the strangest things I've heard in this room, and perhaps it's going into a trend in the Left, where those who are not some with the Left are just victims of sensory behavior. Sensitivity is what has come from professionals in hospitals, in the air and on the ground, those who have warned against the developments we now see so strongly. Sensitivity is he who had to wait a day after having had a stroke. It's sensitivity, while the right rationality is the one that Left-to-Always gets served by the government. The admission has perhaps been the strangest thing in the whole thing. Where the rest of the country sees a clear crisis and sees a service that is in confusion because of the process that has been started, Health Nord, the enterprise itself and, in part, Health Minister Bent Höie have said that this is under control. Erna Solberg thought it was a normalization that was now in progress, while Health Nord issued warnings to the district women who were pregnant, that they had to take precautions before they were born. This is a matter that calls for examination. Had the ambulances in Oslo stood one day, it would still be in debt to the Minister. And here we have an even more dramatic situation, which happens at times. We therefore ask the Riksrevision to examine this matter – not just an evaluation by the government itself, a proper investigation. We mean that this thing also shouts for a reaction from Stortinget. When life and health are put at risk, it's clear it's critical. To those who think that there might be a demand for distrust if this is not resolved: Yes, at least join in and give a clear message that this has been a highly critical treatment from the Minister of Health. So our primary point of view is that we've done the right thing for. We also have a secondary position, along with the Center Party and Red. That's where we stand so far in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e2113	The matter we are dealing with today is a consequence of a serious situation. It's a national preparedness crisis, an alert crisis. With close family in the north, I can tell you about my aunt's baby, Emil, who fell into the water last year. This boy went well in two years, because the air ambulance came. The prehospital services worked that day. But the thoughts of ‘what if’ and ‘what had happened about’ are still there. I think a lot of people are familiar with me. Emil in two years is fine thanks to the system working that day. It's not hard to understand the concerns, and it's not hard to understand that people feel insecure. I knew it myself in that situation. The situation we are now in could have been avoided if it had been listened to – listened to the staff out in the ministry, listened to professional advice – or had the Committee's position been followed up. The Committee's position, NOW 2015: 17 is clear. It says: ‘There is a risk that operator switching upon the conclusion of new contracts will disrupt good interaction between the operator and healthcare provider over several years. Air ambulance services are at risk and this interaction is a prerequisite for the safe execution of the missions.’;» It is appropriate to point out that the Storting has asked several times that the recommendations of the Emergency Committee be followed up and presented to the Stortinget. The hearing has shown that there has been a failure in the tendering process. Experience and competence have not been stressed. Required risk analyses have not been carried out and the whole process has been characterised by noise. Stability/non-satisfaction, legal assessments, secrecy, tendering arrangements, economy over quality – I could still. It is possible that no laws are broken, but trusting and reassuring are not words that can describe this process. Back there are people who ask for something so fundamental that the security of life and health is safeguarded. Now the Minister of Health has to clean up. He's the top man in charge, and it has to be made sure that we never get into a similar situation again.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e2127	In this very important matter, I would like to refer from an interview in my local way. I believe it is important not to forget the people who are in this situation – above all the people who in an emergency are dependent on the vital offer made by the air ambulance, but also the people who carry out the missions. During the interview, the journalist spoke to the flight captains Lars Robert Hansen and Synnøve Egeness Lilleli, who both worked at the air ambulance in Brønnøysund. The two have 19 and 11 years of experience as pilots of air transport, respectively, and Lilleli is trusted at the base. On the situation, she says, among other things:\t\t You can change the settings of the "This has been a couple of rough days and weeks, I've been right in the basement." Many pilots quit already last year, and several have quit this year. In March and April there were negotiations between the Führerbundet and Babcock. The latter withdrew, and the negotiations collapsed. As a result, pilots across the country were notified ‘not fit for flight’ by management. I record that the Left is strongly critical of that, but I think everyone prefers focused pilots in balance. Now the pilots feel that the new actor doesn't want them to go further. Lilleli explains that despite the “that we were willing to accept a tough offer from Babcock, where we went down 25 percent in wages, got our pension shaved and we said that we should not sue them, so they said no thanks and withdraw. [[...]] [[...]] We were willing to stretch far, to keep the drift going and keep saving lives." Finally, the newspaper writes that Lilleli was a right-wing politician in the local government in Brønnøy until last week she resigned from the party in protest against the health minister's handling of the air ambulance case. Like her colleague, she believes that the government of the business can be a way to avoid similar processes in the future. There's a possible solution that's worth looking at. ‘If business models and crowns and ears are to go ahead of people’s lives and health then I have to say stop,’ says the captain. The last thing is maybe the most important thing in the whole thing. It's time to stop and see how we want to have it in Health-Norway. I really hope that a majority in the storeroom can agree on the proposal which specifies that we should ensure the continuation of today's staff and not just the continuation of the service, as it undermines the essential objective of preserving the very experience and competence of today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e2152	Yeah, what's this thing about? It's about people, it's about security of life and health, it's about patients being cared for wherever in the country they live, it's about people in Finnmark having the same security and assurance that their lives are as much worth as people's lives in other parts of the country. For North Norway is particularly hit. In the north it's weathery, it's long distances, there's little people. Then you are totally dependent on the functioning of the services until you arrive at a hospital. It must then be expected that the vital air ambulance service will work 24/7 throughout the year. Also inside these planes there is vital treatment – it is more than just transport. The bidding round is the root of the crisis. It's not nice that people in the north are furious. It is with good reason when security is challenged in such a way. The primary responsibility lies with the Minister of Health. There's no doubt about it. The answers from Bent Höie have been that the situation has been under control. He has referred to the health business when questions have been raised. I believe you have been lost almost a complete discharge of responsibility at times. And then I have to say that it's a paradox that you point out that the solution is the use of the Defense helicopters – the same helicopters that you will also decide to remove. This process has led to the departure of a Chairperson. We've been completely free of ambulances for 24 hours in the north. There have been births in a medical office, regulars with serious warnings and an overall professional environment that has triggered an alarm. However, there has been no self-criticism, they have been told that the situation is under control. Yes, not even in the process has there been proper self-criticism. It's interesting to hear the Prime Minister's position, which is the same. On the same day that Health Nord asks pregnant people in Finnmark to stay in the vicinity of hospitals, as there is no doubt that there are aircraft available, the Prime Minister says that the situation has normalized. It's not much of a normal thing about it. You can ask yourself the question: would you have such a backward attitude if it had been somewhere else in the country? Because to the seventh and last, the people in the north are the victims of this. Then I have to say in the end: I think there are quite a number of left-wing people in North Norway today who are sitting with a dull taste in their mouths. For the punishment of the Stortinget and of professionals who came from the representative Grimstad, I have not heard the husband. I expect the Council of State to receive clear instructions from the majority in this Chamber today, for now it has to be cleaned up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e2167	The issue of air ambulance services in the north has worried many of those who live far away from hospitals – not only worried, but also given many the feeling that there is little care about the offer for those who are far from the power of this country. Finnmark has the destiny that it is both sparsely populated and has long distances. In such a landscape, air transport is very important in terms of the safety of citizens for life and health. Although we are few in Finnmark, the rights granted under the Patient Rights Act also apply to us. Not a lot of imagination is needed to understand that when you change the offer without a transfer of business, you play with the most important piece in the air ambulance service, namely the employees. It's not the planes that make up the quality of the service, it's the pilots and the health staff that do. That the government allows the health care of people in the north to be treated so arbitrarily that changing the operator leads to a lot of aircraft being on the ground during the period is not to be believed. Tenders can offer better and cheaper offers, but you can't do four on professional quality or initiate processes that lead to professionals finishing. Here is really the state that buys put in an unfavorable light. Money is put in front of the patients. Cheap's not good. What has happened in the north is nothing less than a national preparedness crisis. It has not come as a surprise, it was notified and expected when changing companies without taking into account the employees. The consultation at Stortinget revealed that the EEA Agreement was the reason for the transfer of activities as a prerequisite for the submission of tenders. Such a statement requires clarification by the Minister for Health, for if the EEA Agreement is to prevent the nation from taking care of life and health, it is time to stop. Furthermore, the media have found that the health care provider has spent the current operator's wage costs on the competitors who used to tender. This is a long-winded distortion of competition and cannot be in line with the proper procedure of a tendering procedure. Despite a chaotic, deficient and inexorable tendering process, this is not the worst consequence of the case. The worst is the people of the north's insecurity and terror associated with a system that we could trust, which is now filled with so much uncertainty. The responsibility for the lives and health of citizens lies with the Minister of Health, and it is the Minister of Health who needs to clean this up and provide safe and sound health services, including in the north. The scandal here is linked to the absence of any business transfer requirement. That is the reason for the notified crisis we are now facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e2196	I have to say that I was a little surprised when I heard the representative Grimstad from the Left stand here and feel that named big-time politicians share in spreading uncertainty and fear. I can guarantee the representative that that fear and uncertainty are very real, and it's out there. It's just to contact your own party traps in the north, you get described frustration, fear, uncertainty and maybe anger. And then to punish the representative of Kjerkol and others, who draw in the issues and the feelings that exist out there, to the Stortinget – that should be commended rather than condemned. However, health and access to healthcare are important for citizens to feel safe for life and health. This is not least the case in North Norway, a part of the country characterised by the climate and long distances. Many people have a long journey to a hospital, which is particularly stressful for patients and relatives. It is therefore important to have a comprehensive offer that focuses on content and quality at all stages. Hospitals, near hospitals, specialist health services, municipal first line services, ambulances, air ambulances, medical boats and patient trips must contribute to the overall best possible provision of health. The best health offer is not the experience of today’s situation and today’s offer. We have a national preparedness crisis that makes many people not feel the need for security. The Stortinget hearing revealed that the air ambulance service offer was inadequate. There has been no provision for the necessary transfer of competences. Citizens, patients and relatives no longer have the necessary safety for life and health. It is therefore important that the Storting adopts an instruction on how the government should solve the crisis we are in. Such a decision would be a clear criticism of the process and a reference to the fact that the Minister of Health, as the prime minister responsible for healthcare, must take responsibility and take the necessary steps and ensure that it is cleaned up. This is an alert crisis, and a lack of action to prevent and resolve the crisis in the Ambulance Aviation Service is highly critical. And the critics have been many. On 24 May the Altaposten newspaper had the following title: ‘The representative of the Grand Duchy supports the requirement that the Minister of Health should leave’. It is not an interview with the Workers' Party, but a claim from the Progress Party in Troms and Finnmark, which was supported by the representatives of the Progress Party on the Stortinget from Finnmark. We're not there that's the solution. SV has also put forward a proposal for strong criticism, an outrageous decision. We do not support it either. But we're waiting for the State Council Höie to secure the service and follow up the decision of the Stortinge. If this does not happen, the Labour Party is not opposed to considering further measures and, in the worst case, mistrust of the Minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e2218	There are some differences between North Norway and the rest of the country. One of the differences has been evident over the past few weeks. That's the difference on the weather. We have that painfully remembered every day when we have heard the weather forecast. We have to live with that difference. But this year we have also seen a new difference between North Norway and the rest of the country. I have experienced the absurd situation that after the weather on the radio it has been reported how many ambulance planes have been on the ground that day. We can't live with that difference. It's not acceptable. In the shadow of the case in question, some other changes have been made. The new offer in the ambulance helicopter case for professional advice and technical advice has selected smaller helicopters. This leads to limitations on the type of operations and the patients to be picked, in addition to increasing time use, as opposed to choosing a larger helicopter, which was the recommendation. When the Council of State was confronted with this in Stortinget, the answer was that this is Health Nord’s responsibility – just as it is today – there are some others who are responsible for the situation that arises. When assessing ambulance jets, for cost reasons, they chose not to go for two, which was the professional recommendation, but they chose one. That ambulance jet wasn't located in North Norway. No, it was located in the East, with the reason that it can also be used in Northern Norway. In the spring, I have been contacted several times by rapporteurs in Northern Ireland, who are concerned because of changes in the ambulance car service, they experience more co-morbidity challenges and conflicts than they did before. Like the representative of Moxnes, I have also visited the emergency clinic in Tromsø. My visit, on the other hand, was very involuntary. Although I am literally a neighbour of the next largest hospital in North Norway, I had to go to Tromsø to get treatment. I had to go to Tromsø. The distance is longer than the Oslo–Bergen distance. I traveled to Tromsø in a helicopter. I got back on ambulance planes. Then it's not so hard to understand the insecurity, the frustration and the rage that people in North Norway feel when they're not taken seriously. It is provocative to hear representatives and the councils here today be so humble to these issues and take so little self-criticism. Creating security for the population is a political responsibility. The Council of States is fundamentally failing here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e2232	The core of this case is the transfer of business to ensure that professionals continue to work in air transport, thus ensuring the preparedness under health law. The faction leaders of the Health Committee of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, SV and the Christian People's Party sent a letter on Tuesday, 5 June to the State Council of Höie to publish legal opinions from external lawyers on business transfers. On 6 June, the Council of State informed the health-care centre of the HF to publish the documents — finally. The size of the documents was only received yesterday. The Council of State no longer dared, despite the majority of the population, without further justification why the Committee could not get them to committee. This is critical. In the letter of transmission from Managing Director Øyvind Juell of the Air Ambulance Service, the first sentence states: ‘In the field of ambulance fly acquisition, HF received verbal signals from external lawyers that there was a legal risk of requiring the transfer/transfer of personnel on equal or better terms.’ In the previously secretive legal opinion of the law firm Wikborg Rein of 26 November 2015, the summary states: ‘Our conclusion is that there is a significant risk that the transfer of the air ambulance service to a new tenderer through competitive tendering involves a transfer of labour law activities if the result of the process is a certain transfer of transport equipment and/or employment of a certain number of employees. If the result is that no employees are taken over and no transport equipment is taken over, we consider that there is little risk that this will be regarded as a transfer of labour law.» I.e., I drew the opposite conclusion from what CEO Juell said in the attachment letter, and as he said in the hearing. The correct thing from CEO Juell should have been: there is a significant risk of not having a business transfer. This doesn't give you any trust. The contract must be cancelled. Furthermore, the Council of State must now clarify in the debate when the Ministry received the legal opinion of Wikborg Rein of 26 November 2015. This must be documented, and I expect the department to keep the papers in order, so that we can clarify it with the date of this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e2253	Local emergency preparedness in interaction with a good ambulance service is the most important thing to have an equivalent health offer across the country. When I was about to give birth to my second child in a local hospital on an island far into the sea, I was happy that it would happen in the spring and not in the midwinter with storm and storm. Since my first birth had ended with urgency, I was selected, so that I was originally not to be born at the local hospital, but to fly to Bodø and have food there. When I knew that the day had finally arrived, we left early in the morning, and the capable ladies at the food at Gravdal tried to get hold of ambulance planes. It was in Alta, so the message was that the plane was due to arrive at Leknes at 5 p.m. 10th@item: inlistbox My little son had it busy and wanted out a lot faster than that. The problem was that in the middle of it the brain activity of the little one started to decrease, and so my second birth also ended with urgency. At 10:30, Albert was born – with the shortest umbilical cord the gynecologist had ever seen. I dare not think about what could have happened if we had not had an emergency response at Gravdal. I think in that case the ambulance plane must have saved lives again. I was lucky and had an emergency hospital nearby. Where it's not like that, now Health North asks pregnant people to go to the hospital in good time before birth, because we can't guarantee that the ambulance plane can pick them up. It is not an equivalent health service. That's to say, if you live in North Norway, there are other rules. That is why I am angry today and have been so long. This case addresses one of the most important things we have in Norway – that we are all equally valuable, that we who live far away should have the same basic security offer in everyday life. The fact that the Minister of Health has not cleaned this up already shows that this government does not believe that we who live in North Norway are equally important. We don't bleed slower. I am not going to go into all the details about postponing competition, business transfer and tendering, but I would like to say that competitive tendering for critical services is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e2276	First, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party draw the proposals no. 2 and 3 in the setting. They will be changed to a loose proposal – proposal No. 10th@item: inlistbox That is what has been said from this pulpit. I want to say something more: on 1 June, Norwegian Air ambulance took over two helicopter bases in the north. They ensured that they had personnel during a transitional period. They had taken a risk and vulnerability analysis, and we haven't heard anything about the situation being unsustainable right there. Risk and vulnerability analyses have proved necessary precisely when transitions create uncertainty. I understand that staff who wonder if they will lose their job next year will secure their income and the family by looking for other places. I can see that. Therefore, a risk and vulnerability analysis is extremely important. There is a great weakness and a mistake that this offer has not been made. The paramedics were started by emergency footmen who saw that they had brought in the patients too late – they had bleed too much, the heart attack had become too big, the stroke was too extensive and the patient did not rescue. Then you went with non-profit actors and started an ambulance service in the air to get patients moving in faster. It's created commitment out there, it's created a better health service, and we have to make sure that. The representative of Stensland said from this pulpit that there was no majority in the Chamber to cancel tenders. Well, it's a majority in the Chamber of New Contracts if the Council of State considers it necessary to ensure the preparedness of people, because it's his responsibility to ensure that preparedness. I know that it is nice that the government parties say that the readiness is good now. Nevertheless, Health Nord has sent out a message to pregnant women that they must be near the hospital as the term approaches. I wonder what the message of exactly them is from the Council of State – if the preparedness is good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e2291	Rarely has anyone tried to get away from an absolute responsibility, in the way that I have heard some representatives here today have done. It is no wonder that people in the north are cursed, that they feel a sense of arrogance and are wondering what the Norwegian National Assembly is doing. It is beyond doubt where the primary responsibility for preparedness lies. It's here in this room and not anywhere else, not in government or health companies. They are responsible for the responsibility here and that the Minister of Health has in daily life. When you hear the stories going up there in the north, and when you notice that Health Nord sends out the messages they make for birth, it's no wonder that the concern in the north is greater than in other parts of the country. I thought there was a consensus that equivalent services should be ensured at least when it came to preparedness here in this country. And that the government has a responsibility to take care of this, there should be no discussion about it. I don't think people out there care about what has really been going on in this tendering process around the different bodies and at different levels, whether it has been through political meetings that have asked for or not to discuss. I think people out there are busy with one thing, and it's that this room should take responsibility and make sure that the government does what they obviously don't want to do about it and get going, that's to make sure the preparedness is good – now and forward. This is about trust. It's about trust that when you call and ask for help, you should be able to get it, whether you're in Alta, or if you're in the Drama. It's about people out there feeling a lack of trust, a trust that the health care community has not done anything to get a weakening of. No, it's clearly the government and the state councils by themselves. I find it timely to point out that the air ambulance service transports 20,000 patients per year. There are 20,000 patients who, with small margins, may have saved their lives. I believe that this hall initially believes that they should have an equivalent offer, regardless of where they live in the country, and then there is a responsibility to make sure that that happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e2304	First, I want to say that operating aircraft on the short-haul network is very demanding. Flying into several of the airports in the dark with challenging winds, precipitation and smooth tracks is very demanding. I have great respect for the job the air transport pilots do. The work they do is meaningful and important for very many people. There is a lot of top competence in air transport that should be passed on to Babcock. However, I am unable to support the crisis maximisation of individual parties and will comment on some of the proposals in the case. The lot Red proposes to cancel the agreement with the airline Babcock in the representative publishing house. Fortunately, we live in a well-functioning state of law. In legal states, the rules do not change because you are dissatisfied with the winner in a tender. A Communist party can allow itself to suggest things like that, it can't be serious parties. Thus, when the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre require a transfer of business after the bid has been won, they propose to change the rules of the game that were set when the offer was made. They should come forward with this proposal before the invitation to tender was issued. Air ambulance services have been on offer for 30 years. The representative Tellef Inge Mørland told the government to save money on other people's wages. If Morland believes that today's government does that, we can well agree that the red-greens did the same when they dealt with the tenders during their reign. One or two of the previous tenders were made while the three red-green lots were placed in government, so they had absolute knowledge to propose the transfer of activities before the tender was made. I am among those who do not like to point to faults others do, and what others have done before, but in this case I cannot help but remember the consultation recorded by the Norwegian Flyer Association the previous time the tender was out at the hearing, when the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre were in government and were in charge of the tender. Norwegian Flyerförbund wrote, among other things, that they were genuinely concerned about the apparent lack of care that the tendering criteria had for current staff. In other words, the red-greens should be very careful with the criticism they come with. It was just as much a notified crisis at that time. If we're going to use SV's Sheida Sangtarash's rhetoric, we're going to have to say that the red-greens at that time were happy. The lots of workers, SV and the Centre could have changed the tendering rules when they were in government and could have proposed changes this time before the tenders were submitted in this round. But so well the crisis was not announced that the red-greens saw it. Several parties want the State to take over the air ambulance service and believe that this will be easy. Recently, SV and Red voted that no leaders in the state should be paid better than the Prime Minister. It is not certain that pilots will work in the state with a lower salary than they can earn in civil matters. During a period of 35 days, ambulance flights are working 14 days today. The average number of pilots on scheduled flights is 20 working days. Both groups work very long days.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e2319	It is tempting to point out to the last speaker that so-called serious parties can clearly allow themselves to sit and look at such a crisis that is announced, that is coming, and that it is also clear that you allow yourself to compare employees with top skills with jobs that there is a great struggle to get, and that are well paid. Then we're going to test it out here next week and see who in this room wants to go down in pay. We can do a handshake and see how many there are. I don't think there are many. That people seek to get away to other jobs when they know that the job is going to go away is no wonder, so you can stop moralizing about it. This is a man- and system-made notified crisis. The emergency committee was reduced and gave us the knowledge we needed to know that exactly what happened could happen. We're going to be tidy,' says the minister. Yes, it's important to be tidy, but the most important thing is to save lives. System, contracts and rules cannot stand up to it. Tenders create a breach of service, a breach that can be completely disastrous in a service such as the ambulance service. We know that, and so it's not taken into account in the work ahead after the Acute Committee came. There has been considerable political disagreement about the use of tenders. SV has always been critical of it, and now I sincerely hope that these experiences that have now come also contribute to more parties standing on that line, also in other matters, because this is not good. How can it be possible to enter into an agreement with someone responsible for life and health, where high, highly specialised competence is required for which there is a lack of, such as ambulance pilots, rescue crews, technical personnel, acute competence, as is said here – how is it possible to enter into such an agreement with a company that does not have such competence, without ensuring a transfer of operations? It's gambling. It shows how irresponsible this system is. Both the business model and the bids promote more and more disclaimer at all stages, and we have now seen that, including from the Council of State. It promotes discharge and does not ensure such potential breaches of vital services. That's why this has to end. I miss that the Council of State realizes this and makes sure that security comes into place quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e2330	The representative Knag County called my post strange. It would be strange if I expressed that the people of Alta, Berlevåg, Nordreisa or Karasjok were affected by sensory symptoms. So I don't mean that, and I emphasize it: it's a very real feeling that's taken these communities. What I am asking for is more erudition from the representatives in this room, who have the possibility of transparency in this matter at a completely different level. For example, I react. that the representative of the emergency medical clinic at UNN sat at our hearing and said that he has always been in favour of the closure of the tendering process and of the transfer of activities, and that he has always expressed it. Did the representative from the emergency clinic think I wouldn't check it out? I have. Nothing, either from UNN or from emergency medicine clinic has been marked by any kind of warning that this is a crisis that would occur. This is not a notified crisis. It is not possible to assume that more than 100 pilots are on the ground and will not fly for any reason. Then it is with amazement I record that SV believes it has been a shame that no one has been more damaged or even lost their lives as a result of the alleged neglect of the Minister of Health. Here the batch is in the dual sense of losing the ground contact. Is it a good thing when the Minister for Health and his competent civil service have made sure that preparedness has been as good or better since 14 May – despite the breach of contract by Air Transport? Is the hall able to take it over? Is it luck when a patient is transported from Alta to Hammerfest with the Defense Air Force helicopter with acute appendicitis? Or is it expression of political craftsmanship that has ensured a satisfactory preparedness in Finnmark?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e2339	Air ambulances are a vital service for many residents of Norway, especially in northern Norway, with long distances when acute situations occur. We have had a situation that has been critical. The security of people has been weakened – a very serious situation. Fortunately, we have skilled health professionals who show up from their very best, health professionals who did and do a fantastic job in a challenging period. We have had a period that has created insecurity, that ambulance aircraft have not been available, or that preparedness has been reduced. I've shared the same insecurity as all-purpose and finning, which have also felt on the body how important the air ambulance is. However, I have always focused on patients, citizens and health professionals, such as users of the air ambulance, being sure that the air ambulance is present when the need arises, and finding solutions and measures to ensure the safety of citizens in the short and long term. We do not yet have a normalized situation in the air ambulance service. We will probably not get it until the new actor is in place in July next year. It is therefore important that we today have the necessary measures to take, so that the service to the air ambulance is equivalent to normal, or better, until a new operator takes over. This is something we in the Progress Party have raised several times, both with the Minister of Health and others. I am therefore very pleased that the Minister of Health last Monday in his press release was very clear that his top priority is to ensure the population throughout Norway, and especially in North Norway, a safe and normal ambulance, that citizens and health professionals can be confident that the situation is being monitored continuously, and that the necessary measures are ready to ensure as normal a situation as possible. The action plan submitted on Monday has assessed different scenarios that may arise, and not least worst case scenarios if all aeroplanes from today’s operator remain on the ground. The action plan responds well to the concerns we have had, and also outlines solutions in the short and long term, so that people and health professionals can be more confident that the air ambulance is present when the need arises. When the necessary measures are in place to ensure optimum air ambulances, we can use the time afterwards to take a ‘root cause’ analysis, which is a concept used in aviation. It involves looking back and finding the reason for the situation. Then you will look at the weaknesses of the process carried out and learn lessons, so that you can avoid getting into such a situation at the next crossroads. It's in the future we have to do that operation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e2356	There has been a very difficult emergency situation in Northern Norway – there has been a very difficult emergency situation for the Finnmark population and in Alta. A lot of information has been given to us representatives all along the way. Health Nord has set up its own website with information for its citizens, so that they have been kept up-to-date on what has happened along the way, and what the emergency situation has been at all times. I think people got really scared, and I think they got really worried. I think a contingency plan is important. It is important that we have measures against all scenarios that can happen. I am pleased that the Minister of Health was quick and deployed helicopters from the Defense and hired extra planes to Troms. I think it helped make people in Finnmark feel more secure. The new tender, which has won this competition, is better than the one being delivered today and is better than the one being offered in connection with the previous tender. The operator that won the competition will provide better services than we have today. The current operator, who offers through the healthcare system, had not been able to compete with the tender as usual. So the new offer will be much better. Then I think it is scary that we in Stortinget are discussing cancelling the entire tendering process because of the situation that has arisen, because it is not a long-term and good solution for the Finn Markings. It's not a long-term and good solution for the all-purposes or for North Norway, because that's where you'll get a better offer today than you had before. I really don't have time to account for too much of my frustration. The service gets a jet plane replacing a propeller plane on the Gardermoen. It also provides better security and preparedness for people at Svalbard. Cancelling this offer is stupid and scary. It's a scary proposal we're discussing in Stortinget, and it's a scary proposal made by the Red Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e2367	Haye and the government have political responsibility for emergency preparedness, but they do not understand the seriousness of the situation. They claim that Babcock is on the way to take over on 1 July next year, even though the company has neither people, hangars, aircraft, approved pilots or established cooperation relations with the health service. They even claim that Babcock can take over a base within three months. However, Bent Höie cannot respond to (a) whether Babcock is an approved carrier in Norway today, or (b) how many pilots Babcock has employed as of today. On the other hand, Höie is arrogant enough to say that those questions I have to ask for an answer from Babcock. Talk about disclaimer! How can Stortinget believe in any of Höie's guarantees when he cannot answer two so simple and absolutely decisive questions: Do they have approval? Do they have pilots? Perhaps the Minister for Health should ask his colleague to consult the Minister for Defence with his wife. She's as well-known recruiter for Babcock in Norway. Without the formal approvals to operate two-pilot operations and the formal approval to operate on the short track, Babcock shall not fly either until the autumn or from July next year. Therefore, it is alarmingly irresponsible that Höie does not respond to the status of Babcock. It is irresponsible, and it is not least arrogant of those who are concerned about the future of emergency response in Norway. And then we hear from these Right-People that the quality is getting so much better with a company that's going to deliver with 16 fewer pilots and one plane less than what we have today. The improved quality is due to the demands made by the authorities, and it is necessary to compare the bid received from one actor to another, not the present situation. The fact is that, based on political signals, the authorities chose the cheapest tender in front of the best because, as they said, the price difference more than offset the difference in quality. Today we're fascinated. In the short term, therefore, they have put the saving on the best possible emergency response, and it is deeply alarming.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e2378	I take the floor because in several articles reference has been made to the legal assessments that the HF Air ambulance Service should have received from external legal assistance. It is quite important to clarify that the assessment made by the HF Air Ambulance Service was carried out in November 2015 in relation to the ambulance helicopter acquisition. There was simply no evaluation of the ambulance flight offer. But perhaps the most perceptive thing about the documents that have been accessed by the Storting is that from the past it is clear that legal assessments were made, legal advice was obtained, to write that they were given verbal signals from external lawyers. It is also worth noting the contention that was ordered and delivered in May 2018, when the crisis was a fact, where the law firm also states that it agrees in principle that if the need to maintain competent personnel is governing, the contracting entity is likely to be able to claim business transfer or use other goods necessary to ensure this. So it confirms that this was an opportunity that you didn't use, and we know the situation afterwards. Adequate risk analysis was not carried out. And the HF Air ambulance service has also not wanted to publish the risk analyses they carried out in order to ensure the transitions in the event of a change of operator. Then I shall make an explanation of vote on the various proposals. The Labour Party will vote in favour of the proposals No. 12 and 13, from the Centre Party, SV and Red, and proposal No. 14, from the government parties and the Christian People's Party. We do not support the SV's proposal to review the process today, but we are very open to support such a proposal at a later stage. The most important thing now is to secure the service, but there has been enough information on the table in this process that we will consider a review later. And since I have 24 seconds left, I'm just going to tell the representative Grimstad that he's getting enough e-mail from actually.no tomorrow, because so many direct errors were delivered in his post that my speaking time doesn't allow me to pick them up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e2390	I can join it. It is political craftsmanship that has created this crisis. Political craftsmanship is when one has to insert the Army helicopter to ensure health and preparedness in this country. It's political crafts. It's a crisis that's created. It has not occurred, as the Minister for Health says – that a serious situation has arisen. The crisis has been created because one has put it in the process, where one has looked at outsourcing, wanted to avoid business transfer and to save money as more important than maintaining a good and safe service where a set of people's lives and health at the top. That's why we're there today. Krisa is created – with the blessing of the Minister of Health. And it's quite right, as Mr. Moxnes says, that they demanded a set in this offer was better; a higher demand for the new offer than for the service today. And the two actors who submitted it came to a level that satisfied the new requirements. So it's obvious that whoever had won this offer, it would have been a leveling from before. But what we're seeing now is that the winner of this bidding competition, who had a significantly lower price because they built on business transfer, now loses access to competence, etc., and that actually puts us at risk of this service getting confused. That's what Haukland hasn't understood in his post, and I think that's a very important misunderstanding to clarify. So a little explanation of vote. SV is going to exit from proposal No. 11 in favour of proposal No. 10th@item: inlistbox This will ensure that the majority of the proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that experience and competence in the current air ambulance service are continued, either through negotiations with the operator, through a new bidding round requiring a transfer of activities in accordance with the provisions of the Working Environment Act or by any other appropriate means.’; We believe that it is not optimal, what we want, but it is a good proposal for a decision. It has been a good move in the matter through negotiations over the last week, and it addresses the most important thing here, and what is the starting point for the crisis: that we must take care of the experience and competence that the personnel here actually represent. And here the Stortinget gives a clear message to the Minister of Health that he has to make sure that the key personnel, that the competences that are in today's service are passed on. That's the core of the crisis, and that's what we need to make sure that doesn't go away.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e2408	There is no doubt that there is a lot of important competence in air transport that I absolutely want to be continued in Babcock. But my concern is that I want to refute much of the black paint I experience in the debate. I would like to point to the consultation of the Norwegian Air Ambulance Foundation. So this is an operator who has to compete at regular intervals for bids to fly air ambulances in very demanding areas. Norsk Luftambulance opposes the State’s call for business transfer and writes, inter alia: they fear that a transfer of operations requirement will lead only large international carriers to win the tendering procedures. The reasons for this include: that an air carrier purchasing 10 aeroplanes has to pay significantly more per aeroplane than large international companies that purchase much more aeroplanes and are therefore able to submit lower tenders. That's when a question about the Storting really wants it: that there are international operators, to a greater extent than what Babcock is. The batches that make a crisis try to create a picture of Babcock operating with inexperienced pilots, but that is not correct. The tender shall require a high level of aviation operational competence. The fact is that the requirements for the air ambulance operator are significantly stricter than those for operators operating scheduled aeroplanes on the short-haul network. There is a requirement for a minimum of 2,500 flight hours to fly as captain on the air ambulance. There is a requirement for night flight experience on short-haul both summer and winter time, including a minimum of 100 landings in the dark on the short-haul. For co-pilots, the requirement is a minimum of 1200 hours total flight time and experience from night flight on short-haul both summer and winter seasons, including a minimum of 50 landings in darkness on short-haul runways. When I flew my first flight on the runway network, I had five landings. No one can say that there was any risk impact. Then I had considerable experience in simulator training. This is much more stringent than what the Ministry of Transport puts in place for the pilots flying scheduled flights on the short-haul network. These requirements are beyond the requirements of regular carriers to their co-ordinators. The requirements are so high that the air transport operators have very good cards in the negotiations with Babcock. The Central Party and SV propose that maintenance of the aeroplanes be added to Norway. The proposal is not specified. In other words, all maintenance will be added to Norway. This is a proposal which sounds good, but which is hardly feasible. Fewer airlines have the capacity or competence to carry out heavy maintenance themselves. C and D cheques, as they are called, are so extensive that most airlines place the maintenance on international tender. During this maintenance, all parts of the aeroplane are unscrewed, the engines are opened and ‘cut’. When the heavy maintenance is finished and the aircraft is reassembled, it is painted. Not many airlines are implementing this in Norway. Many have questioned aviation safety. I notice there's one instance that hasn't been on the media, at least not as far as I've noticed, and it's the aviation surveillance department. They are responsible for ensuring that airlines in Norway operate safely and safely. If the tender had been a risk to aviation safety, the aviation operating compartment would have alerted the air traffic controller. They didn't. There must be no doubt that the government or the majority of the population put the security first, but we must have a sober debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e2427	Let there be no doubt that this matter is a failure of political responsibility. There was an early crisis, including: from NOU in 2015, but these alerts have been ignored. It is also the case that the supply process is scandalous, and when the Council of State takes additional compensatory measures without regard to what it costs and without taking self-criticism, but on the contrary it defends the process and says that it can well happen again, I think it is critical. There is an offer process where key personnel were down-prioritized, where the director was incapacitated, where no risk and vulnerability analysis was carried out, where there was information about pay and working conditions and this was related to the competitor, where the offer as scora was the most poor on standby and quality, water, and where more documents are now kept secret. Finally, we have seen enough to make proposals in the Chamber today that one should publish the Air ambulance Service Risk Analysis – transition to a new operator. We are making proposals here today, and I expect that there will be a majority in the opposition, that is proposal No. 12th@item: inlistbox Then it's proposal No. 13 on publicising the legal assessment of the low quality requirements that could be accepted without breaking the offer. Yesterday we finally published the legal assessments that had been made about the transfer of the enterprise. We may disagree about much in this matter, but we must be able to expect openness. When we got the report published yesterday, it turned out that there was no reason why he was kept secret until yesterday. I would like us from Stortingets to be clear on this today and not accept any more secrecy in this matter. Then we have proposal No. 11, together with the Socialist Left and Red, which is our compromise on this matter. It is a matter of passing on today’s personnel with their competence and experience — either like this or so. We are maintaining this proposal and want to vote in favour of it. So until the so-called date decision from SV: I will inform you that the center party will not support it. There is a strong criticism of the government in the setting of the case, and our criticism is made visible by the setting. I want to come back with a brief final article on the rest of the explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e2442	I am also a little surprised at the contributions of the representative of Grimstad and wonder if he is still behind this unanimous committee comment in the vote. I read: ‘The Committee indicates that the situation that has arisen is very serious. The Committee points out that, in its presentation, the Council of State confirms that preparedness has been reduced and remains unstable. The Committee considers that the current uncertainty in preparedness is not acceptable. There can't be any uncertainty as to whether people who are acutely ill get help. The government must ensure that the population of the country is not left standing without critical infrastructure such as ambulance aircraft. It is totally unacceptable for social security.’ It would have been nice if the representative could clarify it in their last post.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e2452	It is no surprise that I again react strongly to the presence of the representative Grimstad. The representative can express exactly what he wants, but I take a strong distance from the vast majority of what he has said in this matter. I have to admit that I am actually not only being quite stated, but rather provoked and quite cursed by the description of reality that he has in this case. And I'm pretty sure those who hear about this case, especially those who live in the north, will also be. So we are in the midst of a national preparedness crisis. But the representative Grimstad stands up for everyone, he knows better than the doctors, better than the trade unions, better than the patients, better than the population. Geography is probably quite different in North Norway and Westfold, but we are all responsible for meeting the challenges across the country. I must also say that it is interesting to hear the representatives of the government parties talking. They talk a lot about what happened over the red-green years, what's the responsibility of those sitting in this room, and how to construct fear. It's especially to listen when we're up in the situation we're in right now. What would have happened if pregnant women in the East had been told that no, now you have to come to the hospital, there are no ambulances available. It had triggered a lot of reactions. It's the way that the government that's sitting is responsible for today's challenges, today's reality. It is on the Right, the Progress Party and the Left that this crisis has arisen, and I will have to ask the Council of State a question: does the Council of States representative share the reality description of Grimstad?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e2463	The President would point out that although people from the north like to have a fresher language than others, the word 'cursed' is not Parliamentaryly acceptable. The representative, Carl-Erik Grimstad, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e2470	I must say that I have heard much in this hall, but the husband of distorting my views I have never heard. The situation in North Norway is demanding and very serious – it is going to be demanding, and it is going to be, perhaps, very serious. But I feel that the Council of State has taken hold of this matter and solved it in a remarkably good way. Then the representative of Moxnes believes that the Council of State is arrogant in this matter. In that case, the arrogance in this hall is pretty much the same. It is quite inconceivable that the representative of Moxnes does not see irony in the fact that he one day from this interlocutors is scolding over so-called million wages to public sector leaders, and the next day requires the maintenance of so-called high wages among employees in an industry that more than most have undergone strong international restructuring in recent decades. And now I notice that SV is also hanging on to the same lesson.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e2477	I tried in my post instead of in this room to make what I thought was the most important elements in this case, and how I now feel that the matter is beginning to ‘grow out’ in a round dance that could have unimaginable consequences. The representative of Torgeir Knag County tried to explain to me again what the matter was about. I just have to remind him that I have no need to be told further what this matter is about. SV, along with the representative of Moxnes, is going to go in to cancel a completely legal tender without understanding the consequences it will have for the people I represent in Finnmark, who are missing out on important infrastructure and good health care. They claim from this pulpit that the new company does not want pilots. It's spreading fear. In the hearing, the company itself said that they had over 200 applicants for these posts and were ready to start the job. In this room we get statements that there are no pilots. I think that's a distortion of reality. I'm afraid we can stay standing without an air ambulance. Therefore, it is important that we put in extra measures, and I feel that the Council of State has done – he has put in extra measures, he has inserted a helicopter, and he has put in extra aircraft. And we're now opening up so that the new company can take on some bases earlier than what's planned. That, I believe, shows action, and I think that is to show that you are taking the situation seriously. It's not to be passive and stand by and watch things happen; it's to do good deeds because you've understood your responsibilities. I feel that the representatives of the government parties in this matter have also understood. I think it's scary that so many pilots have stopped, and it's sad that no more wanted to join the new company. But I think it's hard for us from this room to decide what the payroll rates should be like in private businesses. I think it is important that private companies have a competitive salary, and there is no one in this room who can say that the company that has won does not have a competitive salary compared to what is common to the industry. It's an irresponsible proposal the opposition has, it's nothing but irresponsible. And I think it's interesting that you can stand on a pulpit with so much self-confidence and tell a whole room of people things that to me feel so wrong and so wrong, because that's not how I see it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e2492	There has been a long debate, and I expect the government to take over the strong signals and expectations of the Stortinget through the suspension and not least through decisions today. The government is asked to ensure that experience and competence from today’s air ambulance service are continued. Having experience and competence in this kind of work is – as I also said in my previous post – not something we can buy; it has to be learned. The preparedness must be ensured. It is the council that decides how this happens, but the Storting is giving as clear and clear signals as possible today, and we assume that the Storting is being listened to. So one explanation of vote: the Christian People's Party is going to support the proposals No. 12 and 13.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e2505	There is every reason to believe that from 8 February 2018 the record of the cooperation body between health companies and Babcock is correct – this is from the response of the Council of State in the change of line with me. This makes sense. Health enterprises have acted according to the will of the Council of State. No business transfer would be required, as there would have been no point in having a tender. So the point is that it had to be competitive on pay and work terms. However, there is a major problem with this – it is contrary to the labour protection law rules on tendering. We've seen it, for example. within the bus transport sector, where the Professional Transport Act § 8-2 provides a basis for business competition, precisely because such conditions exist. The Director of Health Enterprises and Regional Health Enterprises has acted in line with the will of the Council of State Höie, but has made mistakes and tried to keep the documents secret, with the blessing of the Council of State. It's been a crisis. The question is: Do the Council now have confidence in, among other things? Managing Director Juell of the Air ambulance Service after the documents have been published, so far? Former onions-flies, Right Erlend Larsen, have had two good posts, and he had a good point. He says that there is a lot of good in air transport that should be continued in Babcock, and Babcock should take over pilots from air transport. However, opinions have major consequences because they trigger business transfer under the law, and that has not happened, and it is therefore seaworthyly critical. The majority of the population must now ensure the continuation of current staff in the air ambulance service, and therefore proposal No. 11 necessary where the Central Party does not receive a majority for proposal No. 6 on cancellation and transfer of business. And to the representative of Haukland from Right and Finnmark, who says it's 'unresponsible', I want to say that it's an advantage to listen more, and then talk to the employees, the people who do the job, and hear their opinion. When they're offered new jobs, they'll probably assess it, and they'll leave their jobs, and the planes will be on the ground for air transport. This is a problem primarily because the Storting and the government have arranged it all so that the preparedness collapses. That's the problem. Therefore, there has to be a business transfer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e2519	I was on the same visit as Lundtegen, in Alta. He may not have said that he had been to Alta, but I was there, and he was there too. What the air ambulance pilots in Alta say is that they're incredibly proud of the job they're doing. But there was a lot of uncertainty. They had been offered other jobs, which were much better paid than the jobs they had today. But they wanted to keep going, because they were proud to work in the air ambulance service, they liked it there. They were busy providing good services in Finnmark. They described Finnmark as tough to fly in, for it could be challenging with much bad weather, but they were willing to sacrifice most of it to save lives. As it is now, it is often that planes do not work. Then you have to be picked up by helicopter – or whatever it might be. If an aeroplane is on duty in the event of an accident in Alta, and aeroplane no. 2 is unmanned, one must wait for aeroplanes, possibly helicopters, from Lakselv or Troms. It will extend the transport by several hours, with the health consequences it produces. The same thing would happen with heart failure, where the travel time to Hammerfest is extended by over an hour. These minutes and hours are critical for aftereffects and late injuries — as the Minister of Health and Doctor knows. Most of this applies to Finnmark as a whole. And there could be a lot worse places than in Alta. Tender practices expose the alert to critical vulnerability during the transitional period and this is not justified. I pointed out that the Emergency Committee also pointed out that the public operation of the air ambulance service was a solution. Air ambulance services are such an important part of the preparedness that it cannot be put into play, as has been done in Alta and in the areas around Alta and in the rest of West Finnmark. Can we fix this now? Can we be safe again? And what will the government do?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e2528	I thank you for the debate, which now seems to be getting closer to an end. Some of the proposals seem to have a majority. Of course, I'm going to follow up on the proposals that get the majority. There are just some of the comments that have come up, which I need to sign out. One is that several in the hospital have mentioned the situation of pregnant women in the area of Health North and the information published there. I would like to stress that what Health Nord has done in this situation is to ask the hospitals to pay extra attention to informing pregnant women who may need ambulances, about what is normal – I would stress normal – the procedure in Health Nord, namely that risk gravitational and first-time births are recommended to stay in reasonable proximity to the institution they are going to be born on, the last week before the date of the term. It is not a measure introduced in this situation, this is the normal procedure in Health Nord, which hospitals are reminded that it is particularly important that they inform about now. So there's been a lot of different claims about what's the situation. The representative Toppe used concepts such as that the country is in a state of health preparedness in crisis and that this has led to a national emergency crisis. As I said in my post: The situation is serious, and we have had 24 hours that have been extra serious, not least that day when all the planes were on the ground. But I would also like to stress that since 14 May, we have been basically in a position of normal preparedness, and sometimes better prepared than usual because of all the additional measures that have been put in place. What is demanding for the service is that this can change in the future. That's why you follow this all the way. Health North is in full alert. We have put in place additional measures, precisely because my main responsibility and the government's commitment in this matter is that regardless of the extent to which Air Transport AS delivers under a contract on standby with aircraft, we should help the population to feel as secure as possible that they have normal standby. Therefore, these measures have been put in place. I understand that there will be a majority for proposal No. 12th@item: inlistbox It includes a document that is public, but there are significant parts of the part to which it refers in the proposal that have been unloaded. The background to that is the first paragraph of Section 23 of the Public Act, for this is business-sensitive information, which contains both business assessments of private companies, and which will put Health Nord and the Health Region in a worse negotiating position if the information becomes public.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e2543	The representative Bears Moxnes has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e2548	It does not assist with new aeroplanes or with new requirements without qualified personnel. The key to a safe ambulance flight service is the continuity and competence of pilots and technicians. Therefore, we need clear answers from Höie on whether the new operator has pilots ready to take over in three months, as claimed by the Council of State, or not. Red is firmly on our proposals, and we will support proposal No. 10, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Green Party. We have noted Bollestad's points that competence and experience in today's service cannot be purchased. This can only mean that today's staff need to be included. We assume that Höie takes this into account, and reminds us that insuring the car ambulance service has been a success, and that no one will now return to the unsafe situation of the tendering regime in that part of the service.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e2555	The representative Kjersti Toppe has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e2560	First to councillor Höie: When the defense entered the helicopter in peacetime, the health services have failed, and then I think there is a basis for calling it a crisis. When Health Nord issues about the pregnant women, and it is related directly to the air ambulance crisis that is, it should not be trivialised. It is unlikely that it is important to have full publicity about all reports in this matter. We haven't had that right now, and it doesn't seem to matter. I found it critical that the Council of State has not secured it before. To the vote: we shall vote in favour of the loose proposals we have put forward, against proposal No. 9 and for proposal No. 15th I assume that proposal No. 8 in the setting, if checked, will be drawn. We will also vote in favour of proposal No. 10, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Environmental Party of the Greens. It's better than what's in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e2567	The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e2572	First, a quick explanation of vote. I had forgotten to withdraw from proposal No. 8 in favour of proposal No. 15th Proposal No. 8 is about the government carrying out an investigation, proposal No. 15 is that Stortinget asks the Riksrevision to carry out an investigation. So that's proposal No. 15 we're on. Then I was very surprised at the health minister's statement that transparency in the risk analysis cannot be made public, that is, that the Stortinget cannot be made aware of the risk analysis that has been done here. It's absolutely crucial to know if there's actually been any assessment of what the risk was of launching the race that one here has done – as it was also underlined in the hearing. The same applies to quality requirements. I'll ask the council to clarify further than just refer to what he actually did, which is a pretty thin explanation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e2579	We have had a long debate and we have had a great deal of work in the committee in a short time. In this way, I want to boast to the Committee for Good Cooperation, despite disagreement. It's also an incredibly important property, we have to come up with solutions. I need to explain what was said about what had been sent out of Health North. I'm going to quote the trade director from Health Nord, who said, ‘We still have an unstable situation in the Ambulance Aviation Service. Therefore, we ask the hospitals to pay extra attention to informing pregnant women who may need ambulances about the normal procedures that apply’. It is quite important that they have gone out with information to pregnant women, because there is an exceptional situation. I want to say that many people have said a lot about the defence here. I've been working in emergency medicine for 25 years. The defense is an important part of a good preparedness, even in the area of health, so we're not going to talk about the competence of the defense, even when it comes to collecting personnel. They should, after all, help us at a time when there is no peace in the land, only lack that they cannot help us at a time when there is peace. But there's no permanent solution, I want to say that. I got a comment from Red about the acquired competence. Working in the field of emergency medicine, working out, flying, acquiring competence -- competence in flying, how to treat people, how to gain experience in having critical situations right behind you, and still being able to maneuver the aircraft for which you are responsible, to ensure that both yourself, patients and health professionals are safe to find out where the help is. Competence is then required. Yes, it may be that it is in Air Transport’s staff portfolio, but it also exists with others, and that is what we have to take with us. There are a lot of people, and it's important to bring them along. But we're not going to take it lightly, and that's what the Christian People's Party has been concerned about that. We have not been observant to ensure a transfer of competence by requiring a transfer of business. Actually, I think that's the best thing to do. But now it wasn't done, and then we have to take this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e2595	There is no doubt that the situation that has arisen is demanding. I think it is reassuring that the health minister and the government have taken a number of steps that, despite this situation, we can feel safe and have equal access to specialist health services throughout the country, and in our part of the country in particular. I think it has been acting quickly. The fact that alternative capacity has been deployed when the current supplier is unable to provide the services has helped to make me sure that this is a service that is well maintained, given the current situation. It is particularly interesting to hear that the preparedness has sometimes actually been better than the normal situation, from 14 May. It's okay to bring it with you. I think it is important to remind each other once again that the new offer will lead to enhanced preparedness in the country and for our part of the country. There is no doubt that as of 1 July next year, when we get new planes on the short-haul jets and get in jets, we will be able to get ready both faster and with greater capacity throughout the country, and especially in my northern part of the country, where this is very, very critical. As the representative Larsen, with his professional background, has explained, the demand for quality, competence and safety is very high, and I also think it is important to bring it with him. Aviation is a very complicated area and has a lot of legislation. It is a difficult sector, both technical and safety-related, and operating in this area requires a completely different competence from that of the specialist healthcare service. Health services should be primarily good at providing health care and not operating their own airlines. At least that's my approach. There is also the background to this call for tenders since 1988. There has also been no business transfer, which has been mentioned by many. What I think is a little strange is that you have a political game around a situation that has now arisen, which is almost impossible to take into account. When some here call for the cancellation of contracts, the violation of laws and the abandonment of established principles, it is really these representatives who are willing to play the whole service. At least that's not what the people deserve. There is nothing about today’s situation that suggests that the new supplier will not be able to provide air ambulance services in line with the contract. Until 1 July 2019, today’s supplier is responsible for the service and can help us to make a seamless transition. Should the need be reported, we have been informed here that there is a contingency plan, it can be scaled up, and you can tackle new challenges that may arise during operation today. I hope the majority are concerned that we are now getting stability back first and contribute to a secure service offering that best suits the population, instead of having a game around the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e2608	I just want to make a brief comment – mainly in response to Haukland’s last post. Between 1 March and 27 April, negotiations took place between the Norwegian Führerverband and Babcock, with the aim of obtaining a «business transfer light» as they themselves describe it as, i.e. that the air transport pilots would be offered by Babcock to continue working for them from the summer of 2019. As I mentioned instead, the negotiations collapsed when Babcock pulled out. The Führerbunder says that Babcock's sorti came immediately after the pilots had actually agreed on conditions that led to their going down 25 p.m. in wages and salaries, and that associated parties would refrain from applying for labour law for a full transfer of business. It is therefore now felt by the pilots in today’s air transport that the new actors do not want them to go further.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e2616	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e2621	Suffering if it is a difficult matter for the Council of State, he has a responsibility to inform the debate, especially about the conditions surrounding the transfer of business, and that has not happened. I also find it inappropriate that the Council of State laughs at critical articles about what the government has done, and does not answer questions. I asked the questions: When did the department get the legal opinion from Wikborg Rein of November 26, 2015? Has the Council of State confidence in Director Juell after what has happened? Will the State Council publish the legal assessment of how low standards of quality could be accepted by companies without breaking the criteria in the tender? None of these questions have been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e2628	An interesting debate is coming to an end. I want to make some observations, and the first is about the representative Gudmundsen, who accuses the opposition of ‘political games’. I have to say that I react to it in such a case. What are we going to do with an opposition in Stortinget if we don't deal with a matter like this? A significant offer in Health-Norway and to the people of the north are at stake in a very serious situation, as the Council of State – I mean quite tidy – says is very serious. Well, then it's our job to follow that, and there are many holes found in this case series we're not done with today. I've traveled north, I've met some regulars who grunt at the weekend and the situation they come in when they operate in the Churches: will they get in a patient who can't get the transport that's needed? The representative said that there is a political game around a situation that is ‘incalculable’. Well, I dispute that claim. This would have been possible to take into account. There was good advice and input, they had acted in relation to it. I would also like to stress the importance of having a broad majority now to review the advice given by the Committee on Emergency Affairs. It was a sample that I reduced the time I was a health minister, for the prehospital services. Ambulance services I think people perceive is part of our health care service's absolutely most vital offer. They are the ones who pick us up when we have the greatest need and are most helpless, and I look forward to that investigation. I just want to say, because we've had debates here in the Chamber on helicopters and helicopter standby: it's not good enough in Norway today, and it's worth saying that the government is going in for three Bell helicopters left on Bardufoss. The consequence of this, writes the government in the revised national budget, is that we have to cancel the agreement with the police on helicopter preparedness – and to the representative of Bollestad, this is peacetime. If we were there that there were only three, then two of them are at work for Health-Norway – honor them for it – but that's not how it should be for the lifting capacity in the Army. And then finally, because it's been working intensively on this, I want to give recognition to the parties that now form a majority. It has been working to find formulations that gather a clear instruction and a clear mission to the Council of State, and I believe that these parties are honoured to have been arrived at. That means that the Council of States has a task to do, and that the Storting has a job to do with following up that it's actually going to be solved.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e2641	There has been a long and interesting debate, with different views and starting points. I think we all agree that there has been a very demanding situation, perhaps especially in Finnmark. That's why I'm very happy that we in the Progress Party have had a very good dialogue with our people in Finnmark, who have felt the pulse of how people in Finnmark have experienced this. I'm very happy about that. But to be honest with you! After listening to the representative of Moxnes, I have to say that I think in many ways it's okay that you don't want anything to be private, because that's really the starting point for Red. But I thought it was a little special that Mads Gilbert, who is a Red Member, went out and was very critical of this situation, but also was critical of the agreement that had been concluded with the Norwegian Air Ambulance. I think there are a lot of people in this country -- hopefully also in this room -- who think of it as a very serious company, which is very active in emergency preparedness, and which has been important for 40 years in developing emergency medicine. Thus, it is believed that they do not provide good services – as Mads Gilbert clearly believes – even if they were to take over from 1 June. I believe that it is a very good company, capable of delivering good services, which is at full speed to take over for the company that Babcock is going to take over if about. one year. I totally disagree with the representative of Moxnes about what he said about the ambulance service. Fortunately, in my county there are approx. half of the ambulance service in private, and they provide fantastic good services to the citizens of Telemark who receive services provided by private individuals. I really hope that they get the opportunity to continue. There is a deep disagreement between the Red Party and the Advance Party. Red wants everything to become stately, and you want to go back to other regimes' way of operating. That's not going to happen to the Progress Party. We think it's healthy with competition to deliver good services, to the best of the people, in the health field. I think the new company will be able to deliver good services. And then we have to make sure that the preparedness for the inhabitants of North Norway, especially in Finnmark, remains good until the new company takes over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e2650	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e2680	The President will stress that we have a bit of a demanding vote in front of us, with a lot of alternative voting. The President is betting on a good cooperation with the Chamber and that we have peace during voting – and we shall get to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e2689	A total of 15 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Ove Trellevik on behalf of the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party the proposals No 2–6, from Ove Trellevik on behalf of the Right Party and the Party of Progress the proposals No 7 and 8, from Stein Erik Lauvås on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 9 and 10, by Willfred Nordlund on behalf of the Centerpartiet the proposals No 11-14, from Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 15, from Torhild Bransdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party There is a vote on proposal No. 14, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to investigate and promote the necessary legislative and regulatory changes that allow municipalities to differentiate municipal taxes from the income of individuals or households, within a province-neutral framework based on the principle of self-cost.»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e2725	There is a vote on proposal No. 15, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Sections 18 to 3 of the Community Act are replaced by the following: § 18-3 Representativeship The representation is the top body of an inter-municipal political council. All members of the Council shall be represented by at least one representative. Each local government or county council elects its members and at least the same number of alternates. The members and alternates shall be elected from among the members of the local or county council. Members of the Municipal Council and the County Council may also be elected. If nothing else is provided for in the Cooperation Agreement, it shall elect its chairperson and Vice-Chairperson. The cooperation agreement may provide for the activities of the Chairperson and Vice-Chairman to be conducted between the participants. In municipalities and county councils governed by parliament, the local or county council itself may provide for the municipal or county council to elect the members of the municipality or county council. The Municipal Council or the County Council may sub-delegate that authority to individual members of the Council unless otherwise decided by the Local Council or County Council. The members of the representative board and alternates shall be elected for four years unless otherwise provided for in the cooperation agreement. The individual participant may, even at any time in the event of a new election, replace the members and alternates chosen by the participant himself. New members and alternates are elected for the remainder of the term of office. The representative body may itself set up other bodies for the management of the Council. The representative shall elect a chairperson, a Vice-Chairman and other members and alternates to such bodies.’;» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e2757	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e2762	The correct number of votes will then be 94 votes against and 6 votes in favour of the proposal of the Christian People's Party. The proposal is therefore not accepted. Everyone in the room is obliged to vote. That means that those who are in the back of the rotunda must leave the hall. There is a vote on proposal No. Ten, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals to replace internal control provisions in the specific legislation, including in the health and care sector, so that the internal control provisions are integrated in new municipal law when it enters into force’. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e6506	Alternatively, the first paragraph of Section 1-1 of A I and proposal No. 11, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The first paragraph of Section 1-1 of the Community Act is replaced by the following: The aim of the law is to promote municipal and county self-government and to establish the necessary framework for it. The law shall facilitate the local government and a strong and representative local democracy based on transparency, and with active involvement of its citizens.’.» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e6525	Alternatively, the second paragraph of point (e) of Section 5-2 of A I and proposal No. 2, from the Right and Advance Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The second paragraph of point (e) of Section 5-2 of the Community Act is replaced by the following: (e) the elderly, advice for persons with disabilities and youth councils or other youth participation scheme.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e6542	Alternatively, the third paragraph of Section 5-7 of A I and proposal No. 9 from the Center Party. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The third paragraph of Section 5-7 of the Community Act is replaced by the following: The Committee may set up a Bureau of Members elected from among its members.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e6561	SV should support the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e6566	Yeah, it's in the cards here. When the President reads that there is an alternative vote between the vote and proposal No. It is implicit that those who do not support the proposal support the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e6571	I gave a little confusing signal to my group.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e6577	Then the president proposes that we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e6589	Alternatively, there is a vote between A I § 5-12 and proposal No. 3, from the Right and Advance Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘Sections 5 to 12 of the Community Act are replaced by the following: § 5-12 Elder Councils, advice for persons with disabilities and youth councils The local authority and county council shall select an elderly council and a council for persons with disabilities. The majority of the members of the Board of Senior Citizens shall have reached the age of 60 at the time of the election. The local authority or county council may choose a youth council itself. The Youth Council shall have a term of office of up to two years. Members of the Youth Council shall not have reached the age of 19 at the time of election. Councils are advisory bodies of the municipality or county and have the right to comment on matters relating to the elderly, persons with disabilities and young people respectively. The local authority or county council may itself establish a different participation scheme for young people than a youth council. The second subparagraph, the second and third sentences and the third subparagraphs shall apply mutatis mutandis to the term of office and tasks of such other participation and the term of office of representatives of the scheme. The Ministry shall lay down the tasks, organisation and procedure of the Councils and other forms of participation for young people’.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e6618	Alternatively, the fourth paragraph of Section 7-2 of A I and proposal No. 5, from the Right and Advance Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The fourth paragraph of Section 7-2 of the Community Act is replaced by the following: In the case of elections to the representation of an inter-municipal political council, point (c) of the third subparagraph shall apply.’» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e6637	Alternatively, the second paragraph of Section A I, Section 7-5 and proposal No. 12, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The second paragraph of Section 7-5 of the Community Act is replaced by the following: If four or more members are to be elected, each gender shall be represented by at least 40 per cent among the proposed candidates on the individual list. If two or three members are to be elected, both sexes shall be represented. In the case of elections to elected bodies which by law are to be composed only of members of local government or county councils, and in the selection of committees of elected bodies, with the exception of committees of local councils, the rules referred to in this paragraph shall be followed as far as possible.’;» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e6656	Alternatively, the fourth paragraph of Section 7-6 of A I and proposal No. 13, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The fourth paragraph of Section 7-6 of the Community Act is replaced by the following: In the case of elections to elected bodies which by law are to consist only of members of the local or county council, and in the selection of the committees of elected bodies, with the exception of the committees of local and local councils, the rules laid down in the third subparagraph shall be followed as far as possible.’;» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e6675	Alternatively, A I § 8-6 and proposal No. 6, from the Right and Advance Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The first paragraph of Section 8-6 of the Community Act is replaced by the following: Elections who have worked as their principal occupation may apply for a replacement allowance for up to six months when they leave the employment.»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e6693	Alternatively, between A I § 14-16 and proposal No. 7, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘Sections 14 to 16 of the Community Act are replaced by the following: § 14-16 Loans for other people's investments. Loans for sures Municipalities and county councils may raise loans to finance grants for investments in permanent operating resources owned by another municipality, county or state, but only for investments in areas where the beneficiary of the grant has a legal responsibility. Municipalities and county councils may raise loans to finance grants for investments in permanent operating funds owned by a company in which the municipality or county council has a holding in the company and where municipalities or county councils have a dominant influence, but only for investments in areas where municipalities or county councils have a statutory responsibility. Municipalities and county councils may raise loans to finance investments in changes in the property of another legal entity, but only if the change is necessary to implement municipal or county measures. Municipalities and county councils may borrow to discharge guarantee liability in the form of a guarantee for the financial liabilities of others.» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e6722	Alternatively, the second sentence of the first subparagraph of Section A of Section 14-9 is replaced by the second sentence of proposal No. 8, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 14-9 of the Community Act is replaced by the following: Contributions to the investments of others referred to in the first, second and third paragraphs of Section 14-16 and in Section 15 of the First Paragraphs (a) and (b) of the Church Act are expenditure on operations which may, however, be included in the investment part of the financial plan, the investment budget and the investment accounts.» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e6741	Alternatively, A I § 17-1 and proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party, and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘Section 17-1 of the Community Act shall be replaced by the following: § 17-1 Intermunicipal cooperation Municipalities and county councils may carry out joint tasks through intermunicipal cooperation. Intercommunal cooperation shall take place through an intercommunal political council, municipal task group, host municipality cooperation, intercommunal company, partnership or cooperative, association or other means of legal access. If the cooperation falls within the scope of the rules on public acquisitions, the rules on public acquisitions shall be assessed by reference to the rules on public acquisitions’. The Greens and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e6768	Alternatively, A I § 18-3 and proposal No. 4, from the Right and Advance Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘Sections 18 to 3 of the Community Act are replaced by the following: § 18-3 Representativeship The representation is the top body of an inter-municipal political council. All members of the Council shall be represented by at least one representative. Each local government or county council elects its members and at least the same number of alternates. The members and alternates shall be elected from among the members of the local or county council. If nothing else is provided for in the Cooperation Agreement, it shall elect its chairperson and Vice-Chairperson. The cooperation agreement may provide for the activities of the Chairperson and Vice-Chairman to be conducted between the participants. The members of the representative board and alternates shall be elected for four years unless otherwise provided for in the cooperation agreement. The individual participant may, even at any time in the event of a new election, replace the members and alternates chosen by the participant himself. New members and alternates are elected for the remainder of the term of office. The representative body may itself set up other bodies for the management of the Council. The representative shall elect a chairperson, a Vice-Chairman and other members and alternates to such bodies.’;» Christian People's Party and Red have announced subsidiary support for the suspension. The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e6797	It is contested by A I § 31-6, paragraph 35. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e6812	The rest of the A I is voted for.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e6822	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e6832	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e6869	It's over B I and V. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e6881	It shall be counted against B II, III and IV. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e6897	During the debate Mari Holm Lønseth has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I In Law 15 June 2001 No. 70 on the establishment and modification of local and county limits is amended as follows: The title of Chapter VII is replaced by the following: Paragraph 29 is replaced by the following: § 29 County and county names The Kingdom State shall have the following names: 1st@item: inlistbox The fold. 2nd@item: inlistbox Oslo. 3rd@item: inlistbox Inland. 4th@item: inlistbox Westfold and Telemark. 5th@item: inlistbox Agder. 6th@item: inlistbox Rogaland. 7th@item: inlistbox Westland. Eight. More and Romesdal. 9th@item: inlistbox Tree layers or tree layers. 10th@item: inlistbox Northland. 11th@item: inlistbox Troms and Finnmark or Rome yes Finnmárku or Tromssa ja Finmarkku. In new Chapter VIII, Section 30 and new 31, the title is replaced by the following: Implementation. Transitional rules, repeal of other laws The current sections 29 and 30 become §§ 30 and new 31. II Law 14 August 1918 No. 1 on the change in the classification name of the State shall be deleted. III The law applies from the time when the King decides”. Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The left has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e6987	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e7001	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e7080	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e7090	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. Case No. 4 was a statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e7101	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Sverre Myrli on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party proposal No 2, by Arne Nävra on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to make the necessary proposals for changes to the legislation for the renewal of driving licences, so that drivers over 75 years of age do not need to present a health certificate and that driving licences are valid for 10 or 15 years regardless of age.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e7125	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to assess the need for a health certificate for drivers over 75 years of age. The study shall assess the need for a separate test for over 75 years of age, and in particular look at experience from our neighbouring country, which does not have such tests. The investigation shall also consider the possibility of having an assessment that is less based on standardised tests and to a greater extent an individual assessment. The investigation shall also assess whether there are other bodies than the prescribers to carry out such a test, such as the traffic schools.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal. The Labour Party and the Socialist Left have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e7151	The President assumes that the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e7167	In the course of the debate, a total of twelve proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Ingvild Kjerkol on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 4, from Oluk V. Bollestad on behalf of the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party the proposals No 5 and 6, from Kjersti Tops on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 7 and 9, from Sheida Sangtarash on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 10, from Ingvild Kjerkol on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Green Party the proposals No 11-13, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party proposal No 14, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of Right, Advance Party, Left and Christian People's Party proposal No 15, from Sheida Sangtarash on behalf of the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e7197	There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to take direct control and control of the HF healthcare company and to ensure national air ambulance preparedness, with the necessary measures in the short and long term to achieve stability and predictability in the service.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e7214	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5 and 6 from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that the operation and maintenance of air ambulances, which are critical infrastructure for our country, is added to Norway, so as to limit the vulnerability of services and to ensure national control in case of crisis situations.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the contract between the HF Air ambulance service and Babcock Scandinavian Air Ambulance AB for the operation of ambulance air traffic services from 1 July 2019 is cancelled and that when changing the operator of the air ambulance service, staff transfer is required.’; Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e7238	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a case to be brought before it to wind up the current health business model in the specialist health service.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e7255	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the restoration of safe air ambulance services by requiring business transfer for both pilots and other crews, irrespective of the operator, in the future.’; The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e7272	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Council of State considers Bent Höie’s lack of action to prevent and resolve the crisis in the Ambulance Aviation Service to be highly critical.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e7290	There is a vote on proposal No. 11, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure the continuation of current staff in the air ambulance service with their competence and experience, either through negotiations with the operator, through a new bidding round requiring a transfer of activities in accordance with the provisions of the Working Environment Act or by any other appropriate means.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal. The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e7309	President! SV shall vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e7314	Then we take the vote again. The Socialist Left has now announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e7328	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 12 and 13, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government requests publication of the Air ambulance Service Risk Analysis - transition to new operator, Annex 1 of the scenario report, dated 29 May 2018, Health Nord RHF.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to publish the legal assessment by the HF of the low quality requirements that could be accepted by the companies without breaking the criteria in the tender, as set out in paragraph 1. posting in Today’s Business on 15 May 2018 on risk analysis and action rooms in relation to requirements specification.’;» The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party and the Greens have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e7352	There is a vote on proposal No. 15, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The report requests the Riksrevision to review the acquisition process by changing the operator in the ambulance service of ambulance services.’» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e7369	President! My voice was not registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e7375	President! Neither did mine.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e7380	Then we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e7392	There is a vote on proposal No. 14, from the Right, from the Party of Advancement, from the Left, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the evaluation of the tender process concerning the air ambulance service and the use of the experience gained in the further process.’ The Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Red Party have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e7402	President! SV will also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e7407	The Socialist Left Party has also given its support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e7417	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Green Party. The suggestion sounds ‘The Government is asked to ensure that experience and competence in the current air ambulance service are continued, either through negotiations with the operator, through a new bidding round requiring a transfer of activities in accordance with the provisions of the Working Environment Act or by any other appropriate means.’; The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e7444	The President assumes that the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e7463	The President assumes that the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-06-07.ana.ud172e7496	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? I don't think so. - The meeting's been cancelled.
