ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-09.ana.ud14e27	Since this is the first meeting of the Grand Duchy in the new year, the President will take the opportunity to wish all the representatives, the members of the Government and all the others who have their functions linked to the Grand Duchy, a really good new year. Representatives of Åshild Bruun-Gundersen, Jette F. Christensen, Trine Skei Grande and Carl-Erik Grimstad, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For Akershus County: Liv Gustavsen For the province of Hordaland: Leif Audun Sande For Oslo: Zaineb Al-Samarai For Sogn and Fjordane counties: Steinar Ness For Eastfold County: Siv Henriette Jacobsen An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative Trond Giske from 9 January onwards and until further notice. The application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative of the commodity, Kristian Torve, is proposed to meet during the period of leave. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Kristian Torve is present and will take the seat. The representative of Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-09.ana.ud14e85	Thanks for the New Year's greeting, and good new year to the presidency, too. On behalf of Knut Arild Hareide, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Jonas Gahr Støre and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal that three should be a key element of the new government quarter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-09.ana.ud14e92	The representative, Lars Haltbrecken, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-09.ana.ud14e97	Happy New Year to the presidency and the rest of the Stortinget. On behalf of the representative Nicholas Wilkinson and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative to give preference to non-profits in front of commercial actors when healthcare companies buy institutional premises.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-09.ana.ud14e104	The representative, Kjersti Toppe, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-09.ana.ud14e109	I will, on behalf of Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen, Ivar Odnes, Geir Adelsten Iversen and myself, make a proposal to ask the government to send a big message on mental health protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-09.ana.ud14e114	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-09.ana.ud14e132	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a change of line of up to seven lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-09.ana.ud14e141	As the rapporteur-in-Office, I shall briefly explain the subject raised by the representatives of Navarsete, Gülsvik, Pollestad and Adelsten Iversen in this draft representative. They propose to set up a public body to carry out a wide-ranging review of the consequences of the United Kingdom leaving the EU and to investigate the alternatives Norway has to the EEA Agreement. The proposers believe that Norway is facing a new situation as a result of the outsourcing process, such as: should be followed up by a sample work, which I referred to. The proposers will probably elaborate their reasons for doing so in their own articles. The Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee has received letters from the Council of State describing the work of monitoring the impact on Norway of the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the EU. It appears that the government has set up its own Brexit Task Force with representatives of each department that coordinates the very extensive monitoring work that needs to be done at the moment. Furthermore, a business and labour reference group and a separate fisheries reference group have been set up. A Joint Committee has noted that the initial impact assessment of the Brexit Task Force has been made available and that the Norwegian Institute of Foreign Policy, NUPI, on behalf of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, has prepared a report on the legal consequences of Brexit. The large majority of the Committee, consisting of the members of the Labour Party, the Right, the Progressive Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party, are of the opinion that the work that the proposers will have started is already well done and as can be expected, and as described in the letters of the EEA and EU ministers. The uncertainty about the consequences of the United Kingdom’s exit is fundamentally linked to the fact that no agreement has yet been reached between the United Kingdom and the EU on exit criteria and conditions, or the form of a subsequent agreement that will regulate the relationship between the two parties. The majority of the Committee notes that organisational measures have been taken by the government to safeguard Norwegian interests in a good way until such an agreement is in place. The proposalers also wish to look at alternatives to the EEA Agreement, and this is not surprising, since these representatives also represent a party that has programmed to conclude the EEA Agreement and can therefore be said to have adopted a position regardless of the alternatives that can be described. On the other hand, the majority of the Committee does not consider it appropriate to initiate such work. The EEA Agreement is of fundamental importance for Norwegian trade and business. Contributing to increased uncertainty about Norway’s relationship with the agreement would not be in line with Norway’s financial interests. The EEA Agreement has had and has strong support in this room in Stortinget – lasting, constant over many years – regardless of what else may be of the primary position on the membership issue. The conclusion is that the draft representative does not have the support and is not endorsed by the majority of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-09.ana.ud14e158	Knowledge, unlike most of the rest of the world, has the unique characteristic of it becoming more of it when it divides and spreads. The Labour Party is committed to providing more knowledge about European cooperation and Norway’s relationship with the EU. The 2010–2012 European investigation led by Fredrik Sejersted was very useful. It may well be that we should once again carry out a similar European investigation. It is worth noting that the government party Right in the election campaign both winged and wavered and opposed itself in this area. In any case, I received a violent retaliation from the Minister of Foreign Affairs at that time, Mr. Børge Burnde, as I did not exclude a new European investigation on direct questions. Knowledge should not be feared. A few days later, representative Heidi Nordby Lunde replied just like me that she would not exclude a new European investigation either – quite across her own foreign minister. Today, the theme is a central party proposal for a public body to review the impact on Norway of the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the EU. Yes, more information on Norway’s relationship with the EU is good, and of course it will have consequences also for Norway for the United Kingdom to leave the EU. But this very investigation, at this very moment, in my opinion, is not a good idea. The main reason is simply that we have too little time. Fredrik Sejersted's European Committee spent quite exactly two years in its investigation. The United Kingdom is expected to leave the EU in 15 months. The need for national accession in 27 Member States suggests that very much in the negotiations needs to be clarified during 2018. Public investigations are simply carried out by a group of wise women and men meeting in a payroll chamber. There they often stay long and well before they finally present a NOU – a Norwegian public investigation. It is very good to say about this process and the place of these investigations in the Norwegian management system, but in this particular case we simply do not have time to wait to show women and men hiding in a pay chamber and conducting an investigation. In the management of Brexit, Norwegian authorities must act quickly when and if necessary and as negotiations between the EU and the United Kingdom progress. Of course, it is a heavy responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the EU/EEA Minister to provide information on the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the EU, both for the U.D. itself and for other relevant expert communities. Knowledge is a good thing, but a public investigation is not the right instrument in this particular matter at this very moment.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-09.ana.ud14e167	The question of how to organise trade and cooperation with our neighbouring countries in Norway is important and has led to much debate and political conflict. From the 1970s onward, three governments have gone off as a result of this conflict – the 1971 Borten government, the 1972 Bratteli government and the 1990 Syse government. In spite of this, it has sometimes been difficult to get things up on the public agenda and into the public conversation in Norway. Often other things, which are about individuals, get a lot of attention to the displacement of system issues, with great consequences for people's future, hope and dreams, living conditions and well-being around our entire planet. The EEA, TTIP and TiSA are key in such a context. The EEA Agreement was disputed from the start, is disputed and will be disputed. The reason is that, over time, the EEA Agreement undermines the Norwegian model, with geographical and social cohesion, small differences between people, security of work and income, both for workers and self-employed persons in individuals, and this provides over time a dynamic towards greater differences, less community and less trust between people. I have to say that I experience it as a fate's irony that we start in 2018 by discussing the EEA Agreement. It has been 30 years since the debate on the EEA Agreement started in Stortinget. I think maybe I'm one of the few in this room who had my daily work if not in this room, so in this house. It started with a debate in the Stortinget in June 1988. Following the sending of the late Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland on 13 June 1988, a circular to all departments stating that there should be an independent criterion in the assessment of future Norwegian legislation that it would be harmonised with EU legislation if there were no specific reasons not to do so. Then we got Jacques Delors' initiative in January 1989, which is yet another summit in Oslo in March 1989. It happened a lot, and to me it was the first meeting with what I would call a kind of process democracy. All was the process, and the role of the elected representatives – the time they were to be informed, the time they were to make decisions, and the time at which they were to enter – was disputed from the very beginning. One of my moments in politics was August 18, 1989. At that time there had been a meeting of the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee on the initiative of the SV and the Central Party, and the Prime Minister said on News Day that the Central Party's call for openness on the content of this agreement was detrimental to important national interests. The demands for democracy, openness and transparency were detrimental to it. The second moment that is relevant for this is 25 November 1994, when the prime minister in a debate with Anne Enger said after a claim that the EEA/EU would undermine its workers' rights, that it was a lie. It was November 25, 1994. Why am I doing this? Well, I think we've been thoroughly documented in the years that have gone by, that the EEA Agreement has the dynamics that I'm thinking of in these important areas. So I understand the Right and the Advance Party, who are followers of such a development that is in the extension of this system in the EEA Agreement, that they do not want to have a debate on this, do not want an alternative, that we want to be in a forced situation. They want peace. I think we need a debate on the content of this agreement and alternatives to it. I listen with interest to what was said by the Labour Party's main figure in this matter. On the one hand there is not enough time, on the other hand there is a need for more time. I choose to interpret this as the expression that there is movement in the Labour Party when it comes to the systemic challenges that lie there. The EEA will be discussed in this hall until the agreement no longer applies in Norway. Finally, I would like to mention the proposal contained in the setting from the Central Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-09.ana.ud14e184	The representative Steinar Ness has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-09.ana.ud14e189	Today we have heard and we are going to hear many defences for the EEA Agreement. It's a big paradox, all the time it's an agreement that no one really wants. The agreement is because for many years there has been a 'yes' majority in this room, while there has been a 'no' majority in the people. But this country had earned better. The resistance of the SV to the EEA Agreement is simple and in principle. It may be expressed by the fact that there are democratically elected assemblies to adopt laws in a country. Those who pass laws in a country must be able to be chosen and thrown into elections. In addition, our criticism has also been that the overarching of Brussels takes the form of demands for liberalisation, privatisation and attacks on the welfare state and a safe working life. The EEA Agreement has in many ways been a right-wing subscriber scheme. An example of this we could read about at the latest in the class struggle on 5 January. When the EEA Agreement was adopted by the Stortinget in the autumn of 1992, the majority stressed that Norway was free to say no to new EU rules. In the EEA debate 15-16. In October 1992, Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland said: ‘The government will actively use the new opportunities to shape tomorrow’s legislation in Europe. And we'll be ready to use the right that the agreement gives us, to oppose that the proposal becomes a common EEA rule, if we find it necessary." In the same big debate, Hørres Jan Petersen referred to the right of reservation as a «sacuring mechanism». Later, current Labour Party leader Jonas Gahr Støre stressed that we have a reservation right in the EEA Agreement, and that of course it is not there to decorate. Nevertheless, this right to reject new EU legislation, which was used only once: a veto against the third EU postal directive, which was withdrawn after the government change in 2013. More than 10 000 EU laws are applicable to Norway through the EEA. Only in 2014 627 laws were incorporated into the EEA Agreement. While most of the directives and regulations may be reasonable enough, this in practice undermines the role of the Grand Duchy as legislator and the role of the government as regulatory authority. I am addressing this because it is necessary for the majority in this Chamber, which is a supporter of the EEA Agreement, to take over the democratic criticism that is coming. It's also a key to understanding how the United Kingdom ended up in the situation they're in. For many years the defenders of the EEA Agreement have maintained that there are no alternatives. However, when one of our close neighbours and one of the largest EU countries now chooses to leave the EU, it creates a whole new situation. That situation must relate to, and be willing to discuss, both trailers and opponents of the EEA Agreement. We are in favour of all measures that contribute to a more open and professional debate on Norway's relationship with the EU. Norway should learn from the fact that the United Kingdom is now leaving the EU and look at its potential opportunities. An independent and wide-ranging sample will ensure that such an investigation is as independent and professional as possible. That is why SV will support the proposal of the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-09.ana.ud14e209	When the world's fifth largest economy leaves the EU, we have a whole new situation. The EU is no longer the same, and then the question is whether, in that situation, we should stick our heads in the sand and pretend that nothing has happened, or go offensively to work and investigate how we can take care of Norwegian interests in the new situation. Red goes in for the last time – that is why we are also in favour of an independent investigation into the consequences of brexit. For a long time, the EEA has said that we need to be part of the EEA in order to trade with the EU. But with Brexit, we see that it is both possible to negotiate a separate trade agreement, and that Norway now has to make a separate agreement with the British. We in Red will terminate the EEA Agreement in favour of a trade agreement that does not intervene in the labour market and outrun democracy. The EEA Agreement is undemocratic. It lacks popular anchoring and involves a massive transfer of power from our elected bodies to the EU. Norway has said no to EU membership twice, but the people were never asked about the EEA Agreement. The EU has concluded more than 200 trade agreements with countries around the world. Unlike all these other agreements, the EEA is an agreement that not only regulates trade but also directly intervenes in Norwegian society. No other trade agreement implies that one party must introduce all the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the other party for its internal market. But it does the EEA. That is why, in our view, it is right to call it a housekeeper's agreement and it is necessary to consider other forms of association with the EU than this agreement. EU rules prevail over Norwegian law, which means that important parts of the Norwegian People’s Republic are set aside by the EEA Agreement and are regulated by the EU rather than by Norwegian people’s elected representatives. This is fundamentally undemocratic and also the reason why both the supporters and opponents of the EEA Agreement regard it as a democratic failure. In addition, in recent years, in particular, the agreement has denied us some important requirements that can ensure a clean working life. Firstly, we are not allowed by the EU to make public service tenders conditional upon public pay and working conditions, including in the case of pensions. This allows employers to shop for the cheapest tariff agreements with the EU's blessing. Secondly, we see from hiring agencies to municipally driven hospitals, schools, kindergartens, what it should be, that the EEA Agreement also refuses us to require pensions at the same level as in the public sector. In this way, the EEA Agreement undermines what is the basis of the trade movement, namely that through national collective agreements and laws, we avoid competition under pay and working conditions. The EEA is therefore a barrier to social dumping, and in recent years we have also seen examples of Norwegian contracting authorities declaring them illegal because it is contrary to the EEA Agreement. Red support the proposal of the SV and the Central Party to have an independent selection which can look at the consequences of the exit from the EU and, in particular, at Norway’s alternatives to the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-09.ana.ud14e224	I would also like to take the opportunity to wish Stortinget a really good new year. I am also pleased to note that the proposal to set up a public sample to review the impact of brexit and alternatives to the EEA Agreement does not receive a majority here today. Despite the fact that negotiations between the EU and the United Kingdom are now moving into phase two, we have not come to the stage where we can say with some certainty what the future will bring. It is currently unclear what kind of future cooperation model will be established between the United Kingdom and the EU. What we know is that EU Chief Trader Michel Barnier has said that as long as the United Kingdom wants to leave the internal market and the EU customs union, they work on the basis of the Canada model – a free trade agreement. The British authorities, for their part, have said that they want a tailor-made model, but without specifying what it means. It may take several years to negotiate the future agreements that will apply between the EU and the United Kingdom, and a public sample on the Norwegian side would not now have had very much concrete evidence to base an investigation on. What opportunities the Centre Party and SV have discovered at this stage that should lead us to assess our EEA relationship, I would like to know and have concretely stated here today what is involved. We would like to welcome a debate on the EEA Agreement at any time. We want knowledge of the EEA Agreement. But we believe it would be a wrong signal to send now if Norway were to signal that, in the light of Brexit, we would want to weaken Norway’s relationship with the EU. Brexit will play a major role both in the United Kingdom, in the EU and in Norway, and it is the government’s aim to establish a good network of agreements for our future relationship with the United Kingdom. We are not passive in this work. We have to deal with both the European Union and the United Kingdom. It is a clear Norwegian interest to work systematically to ensure understanding that agreements between the EU and the United Kingdom on the internal market must also be able to relate to EEA countries. The United Kingdom cannot conclude free trade agreements with Norway, Australia, the United States or with any other country around the world as of today and as long as they remain formal members of the EU. We are preparing to negotiate a new agreement with the United Kingdom so that Norwegian citizens and Norwegian businesses can continue to cooperate with and operate in the United Kingdom. Contacts have been established between the Norwegian professional authorities and the UK professional authorities in several areas, such as business issues, citizens’ rights, fisheries and aviation. Against the EU, we stress that Norwegian links to European cooperation are established through the EEA Agreement, the Schengen Agreement and our other agreements with the EU. An important basis for all these preparations is to identify the impact on Norway of British withdrawal from the EU and the EEA. It's a work that's going on. I agree with Huitfeldt's representative that there is a work that needs to be done quickly, it has to happen continuously, because this process is moving forward quickly, and a lot has to happen in the next ten months we have ahead of us. Brexit Task Force, with representatives of each department, coordinates the very extensive mapping work currently being carried out on the Norwegian side. A reference group on business and labour issues and a separate reference group on fisheries issues have been established, so that work on identifying the factual basis, the impact on Norway of brexit, is continuous and well-managed. For Norwegian industry, participation in the internal market is of fundamental importance. That message comes from business itself and from all over the country. The EEA Agreement ensures the common regulatory framework allowing this participation. It's the most important agreement we have with our European partners. It ensures a level playing field in our largest market, with 31 countries and half a billion people. In assessing the consequences of Brexit for Norway, it is easy to be colored and guided by its own view of Norwegian EU membership. The logic seems to be that since Norway is not a member of the EU and we now have one country outside the EU, this is what Norway deserves. That is the tone of the proposal for a document 8 which is being discussed today. This is in my view one for simple analysis.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-09.ana.ud14e245	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-09.ana.ud14e250	The United Kingdom is going to leave the EU and, as is also apparent from the intervention of the Council of State, it is clear from the EU, but also from the United Kingdom, that the EEA is not a current option. The EU is talking about a model à la Canada agreement, and the United Kingdom is talking about a tailor-made agreement. A justification used against the EEA Agreement by a spokesman for Theresa May on 19 December last year was that the agreement is not democratically sustainable. It is that it is the one party that adopts the rules and the other party that has to accept them. Why should Norway have lower ambitions on behalf of its democracy than what was stated by the British and their Prime Minister on what kind of agreement they will shape for the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-09.ana.ud14e256	The EEA Agreement is as it is. It is one of the most important agreements Norway has with the EU. It ensures market access for Norwegian business. So we and this room know that it has some weaknesses that go on that we're not formally members, we're not formally involved in all decision-making processes. At the same time, we have a two-pillar system – we are well represented in expert groups in Brussels, we can take care of Norwegian interests, make our view known, and influence as much as possible the mechanisms we have. When the United Kingdom is leaving the EU, they do not see the EEA as a current option, but for Norway to follow the United Kingdom and choose to leave the EU's internal market is not an alternative I would recommend this room. [[The President clubs.]] I know the Center Party has a different view of the whole EEA Agreement, but...
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-09.ana.ud14e261	Gülsvik - please.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-09.ana.ud14e266	I believe that from the vast majority of Norway, the problems associated with democracy and the EEA Agreement have been brought forward – also from Norwegian EU-membership trailers. It is said from the British that the reason why they do not choose the EEA Agreement is that it is not democratically sustainable. They will negotiate a new agreement with the EU that will take more care of their autonomy and democracy than they see the EEA Agreement do. When the United Kingdom – an important cooperation country for Norway – chooses to do so, why does it not want to consider alternatives to the EEA Agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-09.ana.ud14e271	Now there are more reasons than the one the representative Gülsvik mentions, which is the background to the fact that the EEA is not the model that the United Kingdom wants, among other things. the EEA involves the free movement of persons and labour. It doesn't want Britain. They do not want the institutions that come under an EEA Agreement, nor do they want to leave the EU internal market and have full control over regulatory developments. Norway has chosen a different model. There is a broad majority in this Chamber that Norway should be part of the EU's internal market. It is the main market for Norwegian business. It has the support of the NHO. It has support from LO. It has the support of a broad majority in this Chamber. That the United Kingdom’s argument not to choose the EEA should mean that we have to reconsider our EEA agreement – I do not follow the logic of the Central Party in it. As I said, there are several reasons why the British do not choose an EEA model.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-09.ana.ud14e276	First, I wish the Council of State a good new year. Then I'm going to follow up on the track that the representative Gülsvik was on: the path of democracy. There have been several examples over the years of policies in Norway for which there has not really been a majority in this Chamber. Perhaps the most dramatic was the vote we had on the Data Storage Directive a few years ago. Several representatives from the Right and the Workers' Party then voted against their opinion, arguing that they should secure the EEA Agreement. Then I hear that the Council of State recognises that there are democratic problems with the EEA Agreement, and that is good. But then I would like to ask if the Council of State has some consequences from recognising that there are major democratic deficits with the EEA Agreement. What will the Council of State do with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-09.ana.ud14e283	The main response to this is an active European policy, for which the government stands, and which is an important contribution to securing Norwegian interests. It is clear that, as an EEA country and with an EEA Agreement, it is important for Norway to work to safeguard Norwegian interests in the EU context. Without being a formal member, but at the same time having an EEA agreement and joining the internal market, we have to work extra hard to be heard, and we have to work a lot to attend to Norwegian interests. It is a matter of early presence in the processes under way in Brussels with regard to new legislation, it is a matter of safeguarding the national interests at stake in new legislative work. But I find it difficult to follow the logic that because there are some challenges to the agreement, we now need to put Norwegian business in a situation where they lose their participation in the internal market.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-09.ana.ud14e288	SV is a member of an active European policy and believes that there are also many possibilities within the EEA Agreement that the government could use even more actively, for example: the said right of veto, but also other parts of the contract, may be used more actively. But when I hear the Council of State talking now, it sounds as if the Council of State believes that the only option to the EEA Agreement is full EU membership. Have I seen the Council of State right then?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-09.ana.ud14e293	There will always be many options to choose from when it comes to the relationship with the EU. It is about how we view cooperation with Europe, and there are different views of the parties in this Chamber. There are, of course, alternatives to the EEA Agreement, as previous investigations have also shown. Nor is it true that they do not exist and could have been investigated, but my main point is that in the current situation in Norway, and in the situation in Europe, this is not the time to start sending a signal that Norway now wants to follow the United Kingdom by weakening its relationship with Europe, for that is what happens with Brexit. It is a major change for the European Union and for Europe that such a large country, such a large economy, should leave the EU's internal market. It is also a major change for Norway, because today the EEA Agreement is our platform for our cooperation with the United Kingdom, and we need to establish a whole new one.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-09.ana.ud14e298	The EEA Agreement should not be a permanent solution, and it is now 23 years old. When the UK reports, it will have a major impact on Norway, for the United Kingdom is one of Norway’s most important cooperation countries in trade. At the same time, there is growing political and social unrest within the EU. Established parties are in great difficulty, not least the social democrats. It provides the basis for new parties that are xenophobic, parties whose leaders largely kick down. It's worrying. So there is something about the whole structure, about the whole of the EU system, which is causing concern and uncertainty today. My question is: The establishment of the EU's monetary union, without a common social and economic policy within the EU, is there a system error that provides the basis for the dispensation we see among people today?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-09.ana.ud14e305	I share in so far as part of the description of reality with regard to some of the worrying developments we see in Europe. Then I do not agree with the analysis that it is the EU system that is the source of the unrest we necessarily see, and we now also see a different picture, how many of the parties that are now winning elections are the parties that want cooperation, who want international cooperation, and who stand up clearly as defenders of the EU project. So the image that people are now turning towards the EU project is not unambiguous. The United Kingdom is one of the countries with the lowest economic growth and uncertainty, also because they are now leaving the EU. We now see that, on the EU side, there is a strong focus on strengthening the social pillar. I think it's a common recognition that it's now important to work systematically to reduce inequality — and to tackle it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-09.ana.ud14e312	There are five countries that have special and extensive cooperation with the EU through their agreements. There are the three EEA countries, Switzerland, which is quite similar to the EEA, but covers a smaller part of the internal market, and then Turkey, which is part of the customs union. In addition, there are trade agreements of different sizes and depths. The question to the Council of State is: are any of these trade agreements as good, as extensive and as deep as access to the internal market as the EEA Agreement does?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-09.ana.ud14e318	The answer to that is no. It is the EEA Agreement which provides for the most extensive cooperation with Europe and full participation in the internal market. It is interesting to note developments in Switzerland, which has now spent 24 years — well — negotiating different agreements in the areas where they have wanted agreements with the EU. They've come about. halfway through the time that has passed. They have sought better market access for their securities sector. The EU side has agreed to do so for a period of 12 months, but in the period ahead of us, the EU side wants to push Switzerland to accept more and more institutions, let alone what we have on the EEA side. It is not that being outside the EEA or having a different form of connection is necessarily easy in the continuous cooperation with the EU side.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-09.ana.ud14e323	I think it is good that the Council of State, on behalf of the government, determines that there are, of course, other alternative ways for Norway to organise its cooperation and trade with the EU than the EEA Agreement and EU membership. Thus, one of the most important myths in the political debate on the EU and the EEA is the death of the Council of State. Of course, it also explains the government's inaction in what has been referred to as a crisis in EU cooperation. Very often in this room, it is said that when there is a crisis, there is a need for innovation, and that one has to look at how one can organize and solve things in new ways. The United Kingdom will now have an agreement with the EU which is not EU membership and is not an EEA agreement. When the government was chosen to be passive because it is unclear what future will bring, it is not because Norway could not use this space, but because the government does not want it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-09.ana.ud14e330	It is not that I have recommended any other models, just to be quite clear on it. It has certainly been quite clear, I think, in many of my answers that of course there are other ways Norway can deal with Europe, but the government's very clear recommendation and clear advice is to stick to the EEA Agreement. That's what the government's policy is, and that's what we have done here today, and that's what we stand for in every context. We do not have a passive attitude towards the Brexit process. We want to take care of Norwegian interests as best we can, we are doing well. When the Central Party wants to use this opportunity to weaken the EEA Agreement, it is allowed to try to do so, but I am very happy that the attempt is not successful, that there is still a safe and good majority in this Chamber to conclude the EEA Agreement, and that this investigation is now not going to be any of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-09.ana.ud14e335	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-09.ana.ud14e342	The time is ripe for an investigation into brexit and alternatives to the EEA Agreement. I register that some representatives in this room believe that one is too late. In that case, I would say that it has not been on the Centre Party to get an investigation of alternatives to the EEA and the consequences of brexit at an earlier date. But now we're here today, and then at least you have to be able – if you think it's important to get more knowledge, to get more information – to participate in an investigation. Of course, it's not in the way of the fact that, at the same time, of course, on the part of the government, it's going to work on the challenges that exist, but it's about bringing broad interests into the societal debate and getting a clearer indication of what is Norwegian interest. Brexit becomes a reality. Those who lost their lives in the United Kingdom have recognised that the EU has recognised it, and it is time that those who warned in Norway also recognize it. Before the UK vote, Prime Minister Erna Solberg went out and warned the British against voting to leave the EU. Then the British listened to their own convictions instead of to Erna Solberg, and we are here today. To the discussion on the EEA and the experience of different variants of cooperation by the EU: Since the entry into force of the EEA Agreement on 1 January 1994, no other country has entered into the EEA Agreement. The EU has consistently entered into new agreements with new countries, but the EU has not requested those countries to enter into the EEA Agreement to cooperate with the EU, nor has it wanted those countries that have developed agreements with the EU. Today, the EU has more than 200 agreements in 40 different variants, and only Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein have the EEA. When the British leave the EU, the EEA is not applicable to them. Last night Jeremy Corbyn said that it is not up to the British to stay in the internal market, and Theresa May, as I said, said that she does not see the EEA as a democratically sustainable alternative. So why should we accept to insist on the EEA – an agreement that should be temporary, an agreement that most people really do not want, and an agreement that the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom does not call democratically sustainable? Brexit provides opportunities, and Norway has to arrest them. We need to develop closer cooperation with the British, our important trading partner. We must also invite the British into EFTA, and we must be open to the solutions that the British are now developing. The EEA is becoming increasingly comprehensive and is increasingly intervening in new areas of society. We need to have an alternative, not least for the sake of Norwegian democracy. The situation that brexit creates also provides opportunities for Norway to see new solutions, which we need to address.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-09.ana.ud14e357	I'm a British citizen. I am one of the 17.4 million British who voted for Britain to leave the EU, and I am proud of that. People want change. The European Union is losing referenda over and over again through Europe, and once again, a people has said no to Brussels overarching. Democracy is not just about fine construction, like here, and fine ballots; it's about people getting an opportunity and a right to determine their own destiny in society. The EEA has never been voted on in Norway. It was undemocratically silenced over the ears of the Norwegian people after they said no to EU membership. There has never been a proper assessment of the possibilities; it has never been a choice for the Norwegian people. Then we hear the anti-knowledge resistance of the Workers' Party and the Right, who don't want to gather any more knowledge about the topic. But we already know a lot about what the EEA means, and it's true: we know that it gives pressure on labour rights and falling wages to people who earn little, we know that it gives increasing differences, we know that it gives over-management of democracy. It gives us directives like the Data Storage Directive, which monitors citizens, it gives us the Postal Directive, it gives us the railway packages. Tetzschner, from the Right, said it's good for our financial interests. Whose interests? Is it the workers who get the pressure down on their wages, Tetzschner and Right are busy? Is it the districts, who lose their post, or are the commuters, who get pressure in terms of privatisation of the railway? We know who their interests are. And the EEA – yes, I agree that it represents the same interests as Tetzschner. The British people – and I myself – voted to open up opportunities for cooperation in Europe instead of overarching Brussels. They open up opportunities for us, as Norway should be involved and open up opportunities for them. Cooperation across borders is good and important – cooperation, not over-control. We have the opportunity to show that real cooperation outside the EU will work well between Norway and the United Kingdom, and I think we will. I am proud that I voted in favour of British independence from the European Union. The no-movement has won twice in Norway and has inflicted on the Right and the Workers' Party a staggering defeat. That's what we're going to do here in the country. We are now proposing that we pool knowledge about the possibilities. We have not even proposed a referendum – we propose to pool knowledge on the possibilities. Even they don't want to be in on that. The European Union's supporters here in Norway and in this great hall mistrust knowledge and democracy. It may not be so strange, because they lose again and again when the people get their say, and we win.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-09.ana.ud14e374	The British don't want an EEA. It is also in line with what the Norwegian Prime Minister believes is right for the British. For me, it is quite rare that the British do not want the EEA Agreement, because it is a system tailored to Norway, as a first step to bring Norway into the European Union later. It is a construction – a construction that was designed to achieve a different purpose. The situation in the United Kingdom updates the need for Norway to also investigate alternatives — seagoingly. What is important then to address is: why has there become so much political unrest within the European Union? Jacques Delors – French leader of the Social Democrats, Minister of Finance under President François Mitterrand, President of the European Commission for two periods from 1985 to 1995 – was important in establishing the European internal market from 1 January 1993 and was in close contact with the Prime Minister of Norway, Gro Harlem Brundtland. Jacques Delors had hoped that a stronger EU could play a role as a social bastion against Anglo-Saxon laissez-faire and the international free market forces. This did not happen. In the book ‘Debtors’ Prison’ by Robert Kuttner, Delors says that he succeeded in establishing the EU’s monetary union, but not the EU’s social and economic policies. Mr Delors deplored the fact that the European Union had acquired considerable power to become just an instrument of British economic weakness and German cutting policy, as it is said. This was the opposite of a social democratic entity that Delors had intended for the EU, and when the crisis came in 2008, a single currency combined with national taxation and budgetary policy was an impossible position. So far «Debtors’ Prison» by Robert Kuttner. The four freedoms of market forces – the free movement of goods, services, capital and labour – override the option of the elected representatives by decisions taken in the Grand Duchy to correct the weak aspects of the market economy. There's some of the main problem we're facing, and we need to have more attention. The EEA Agreement destroys the Norwegian model, for the Norwegian model requires elected representatives to be able to correct market forces. Furthermore, the EEA Agreement destroys the opportunities for full employment and Norwegian pay and working conditions because we have a common labour market with countries that have so much diversity that it is quite natural for people to come to Norway to get more opportunities in their lives. The EEA Agreement constitutes a system error of such magnitude as to have to be replaced.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-09.ana.ud14e385	The last two interventions allow us to reflect more closely on the fact that, of course, if we want to get rid of the market economy, which has given us well-being, job security and a funding base for the welfare state, it is easier to do so on our own. Then you can look at a closed country, which is completely shut out of the world. I guess that could be some of the options that the Center Party would have figured out. Otherwise, at the end of this debate, I have to say that it has been somewhat predictable, except that there have been new representatives in the assembly who stand out by perhaps not being quite clear that using an example such as the Data Storage Directive, which was adopted here in Stortingen, it was, of course, endorsed by the European Court of Justice, on the basis of the principles and the balancing rules that are the same as in the EMC, the European Convention on Human Rights, i.e. respect for privacy. It is an example that we used local freedom of action in a way that the European Court of Justice did not advise, and that is why it did not take that form. Otherwise I react to saying that X, Y and Z agreements are not submitted to the Norwegian people. No, it's because we have a representative democracy, where different forms of expression and views emerge. That is also an example of this debate. What I wanted to do with my last minutes was draw attention to the Workers' Party posts here. So there is a massive attack on our entire market relationship, otherwise on the basis of something as innocent as a representative proposal. I would like to draw the President's attention to the fact that we have a provision that the President may ask the participants in the debate to stick to the matter. It is the draft representative, who does not have a majority in this Chamber, that we are dealing with – not everything else. However, I have to say that when the chairman of the Committee uses his speaking time to attack the Right, when we stand together in the vote to defend the EEA Agreement and do not see it appropriate to use time to explore alternatives now – also in view of the uncertainty it itself can contribute to – I am amazed. At the same time, the same article does not hear a single real argument for the setting under which the Workers' Party has put its name. I would like to give the Labour Party a little notice: if they leave these debates to those with whom they are going to cooperate in government, and do not take the views we have on what has brought us well-being and secure jobs, we can have an alternative – possibly after a different election, by a different majority – on which the Labour Party must base itself and which will be a great surprise to the Norwegian people.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-09.ana.ud14e398	The core of the EEA Agreement is to ensure Norwegian business as far as possible access to our main export market. This is why the question – when talking about alternatives, which no one in the debate has touched on – is a better option. For what and for whom we never get any answer. The argument used is ‘democracy’. That's absolutely right. We have chosen a model that does not give us representation in the governing bodies of the European Union, and thus less influence than we could have had. But let us not forget that when we deal with the position of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence on the budget for next year, it is year after year that Norway is served by the fact that the relationship between countries is governed by international treaties, conventions and institutions. Think of the oatmeal and what it has meant to us! So when the representative Gina Barstad says that laws are to be passed nationally, it goes without saying that. But how is commitment to cooperation between countries to be achieved if we are not willing to give up any sovereignty that can be exercised jointly through international bodies and treaties? How, then, are we going to implement measures against climate change or tax havens? Václav Havel said when the Czech Republic entered the EU: I would like to state some of our sovereignty in favour of a common sovereignty that must be exercised in relation to challenges that can only be resolved jointly. The representative Steinar Ness said that the EEA Agreement undermines the Norwegian model of smaller differences and trust between us. No, it doesn't. It is about national policies, which we have largely succeeded in these years, and which we are going to change in the national arena. But there are some conditions in the cancers that go in the wrong direction, which can only be solved jointly, for example. how we get fair taxes on international large groups, and how we fight against the use of tax havens. Sigbjørn Gülsvik says, "Why are we going to hesitate in the EEA?" Yes, we must because it is best for the export opportunities of Norwegian business and as a platform for our extensive cooperation with the EU and the EU countries, for the rest. The representative Nicholas Wilkinson said that the EEA was undemocratically swept down the heads of people. Does Wilkinson think that decisions we make in this room are undemocratic and sixty - six heads of people?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-09.ana.ud14e413	The Central Party proposes that a public selection be set up to review the consequences of the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the EU and Norway’s alternatives to the EEA Agreement. The proposal will be put to the vote. The majority do not consider it appropriate to start a work at the current time. But what time will it really be? They will not contribute to the uncertainty about the EEA Agreement because it is fundamentally important for Norway and Norway’s financial interests. Interests in who? In its reply, the Council of State points out that a public selection cannot be downgraded because a public selection will contribute to the public word change – actually quite perceptive. Debates are shown to be sensitive. I thought we were talking about democracy. The EEA Agreement destroys the Norwegian model. The threat to future public service provision in Norway is mentioned in the Class struggle on 5 January: A selection should consider ‘whether new rules should be put in place to prevent better conditions for the public than for private enterprises with which they compete’ – because of the EEA. It is alarming that it is considered a problem for municipalities to run kindergartens, and that it is competition as a tel. Today, the Patient Rights Directive has been implemented in Norwegian law. There was never any popular demand in Norway to become part of a common European health system – no party had this as a battle cause. And regardless of whether the bulk of the population – which is for the EEA – is for or against the market right of the Norwegian health care system, the Norwegian health service is granted market right as a result of the EEA Agreement. The majority call for peace in the EEA not to create uncertainty, but there is so much uncertainty when we have the EEA Agreement, that it should be obvious that we could sort out alternatives. We can look at antibiotic resistance, which is a major challenge, and which both the Health Directorate and the Medical Association warn us against when we entered the single European health market. Why can't we figure out alternatives to that? There are no factual arguments, only a frozen political will to defend the EEA Agreement, although we have a whole new situation when the United Kingdom has expired and there are new agreements, which could also be part of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-09.ana.ud14e424	I just want to clarify some questions that have emerged during the debate. It has been said that we do not want this investigation because we do not want to know about the EEA. Of course, that's not right. We want knowledge about the EEA, we want debate about the EEA, we want a public change of words about the EEA. I just want to mention one concrete example of this with research. There will soon be a call for proposals in the research programme ‘Europe changing’. Brexit and its consequences will be a central theme for it. What is the issue here today is whether we want to signal from the Norwegian side that due to Brexit Norway now wants to start its own process of investigating its relationship with the EU. I am glad that the signal does not come from this room, and that the broad support for the EEA Agreement exists, because I think we would have many questions. It had drawn attention to Norway’s use of brexit as an explanation that we wanted to look at our own EEA relationship. It's interesting that the center part can show that brexit offers some possibilities. I have not yet been fully clarified: What are the opportunities given by Brexit to the Centre Party – or which is on the table – that they believe Norway should take on board? Some have been said about the EEA Agreement and how it was implemented. It is quite right that the EEA Agreement was created in a different situation. There was a situation where there were twelve EU countries and seven EFTA countries — a completely different negotiating situation between the two blocks at that time. Three countries joined the EU: Sweden, Finland and Austria. Switzerland said no to the EEA by hardly a majority. And as you know, three countries were left on the EEA side. There is a lot to say about it, but basically this has been an incredibly important agreement for Norwegian business and for Norwegian business interests. It's just going to ask Norwegian businesses what they think about the EEA Agreement, and they get very clear answers – that it's important. If we were to really look at alternatives now, we had to go to the EU and say that we want to cancel the EEA Agreement. It is not that we can negotiate an alternative to an EEA agreement with the EU while we have the EEA agreement in place. It is not that the EU accepts that some countries say that this is the agreement we have today; we want to see if we can get something a little better, but we want to have today's agreement in retrospect. What we had to do if we really wanted to look at alternatives was that we had to start getting rid of today's EEA agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-09.ana.ud14e438	In many areas, Norway is a major act, and it is in the interest of the major European countries to have a mutually good relationship with Norway. So when someone tries to make it so that Norway just has to thank you for what others offer you, it's a subliminal attitude that's not in line with what's political and real economic reality. The British have found that the EEA Agreement is not an alternative, and what also appears in Norway is that the weaknesses of the EEA Agreement become clearer and clearer. I referred to the French social democrat Jacques Delors, who had a very central role in the interaction with Gro Harlem Brundtland and the establishment of the EEA Agreement. Jacques Delors sees the systemic problems in what is the current EU and the EEA Agreement is based on. It's a fact that multiple parties should take over. I took the floor because the representative Michael Tetzschner said the Central Party wanted to get rid of the market forces. Once again, I can reassure the representative that this is not going to happen. We are representatives of capitalism – I have said that many times before – but an uncapitalism that needs to be corrected, and we are hard pressed that capitalism must be corrected by elected bodies. That's what was in my post, the mixed economy. I know that the Right wants the freest possible market forces and thus the least possible correction of market forces. Therefore, the right EEA Agreement is very appropriate. The Progress Party is having more difficulties, because the spirit of many FrPs is to have controlled labour immigration, not free labour immigration, so the Progress Party is out in difficult waters with regard to the EEA Agreement. But those who really have the challenges are the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party, because there's an EEA torpedo against the basic values. The EEA Agreement is a torpedo of the basic values, not least for the Workers' Party. It is a torpedo to well-organised working life with full employment and Norwegian pay and working conditions. We see that it is impossible to ensure full employment and Norwegian pay and working conditions when there is the freest possible labour immigration from countries that have completely different conditions from Norway. It's pure and cut logic. It is interesting, as the representative Tetzschner said, that the Workers' Party does not prepare for the EEA Agreement. There is a sign that there is doubt in the Workers' Party, not least in the basic organisation of the Workers' Party, not least in the trade movement in the Workers' Party. We are very pleased about that, and we want further debate on this system, which must be replaced as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-09.ana.ud14e449	I think it would be good for the political change of words if we agreed on what we agreed on, and discussed what we actually disagree about. Norway has had trade and cooperation with our neighbouring countries before the EEA Agreement, and of course we will have trade and cooperation with them on the day that the EEA Agreement no longer regulates trade and cooperation between the countries. Norway has extensive cooperation, extensive trade regulated by forms of agreement other than the EEA Agreement with a large number of other countries. Turning this into a debate on Norway's trading and cooperation with other countries is entirely on the side of the real contradictions and camouflages the political mess at the bottom of this debate. What is the problem with the EEA Agreement, is it asked, and what is the option? The alternative to the EEA Agreement is, of course, to organise our trade with EU countries in the same way as we organise our trade with non-EU countries, without interfering with our national legislation and our freedom of action in important areas. I am quite overconfident about, as has been said here, that the EEA Agreement was not intended as a permanent alternative to any Norwegian EU membership, but more so. If we go back to what was disputed in 1992 about the content of the EEA Agreement, it is true that the EEA supporters have made mistakes on all points, and the agreement has had the effect that the EEA opponents said. Then one might wonder if it was because the EEA fans, those who negotiated the agreement, did not have the necessary competence and overview to look at the consequences that, among other things, Professor Eckhoff and many others thought it was under these legal rules, or if it was because they didn't believe that this agreement would last so long that it came up on the table. I'm overconfident that they knew what they were doing, and they didn't mean that this agreement should be a so-called permanent option. Finally, on Norwegian business, which is in favour of the EEA Agreement – we all know this: they argue boldly for the EEA Agreement, look at it and warn about what will happen without an EEA agreement. Now it is that the EEA Agreement was concluded before we had the debate on Norwegian EU membership in 1994. Some of what slips me as an EU opponent is to travel around and meet all the business leaders, the NHO people and the Right people who warn that we would not be able to trade with the EU without EU membership, and who are now well lit without.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-09.ana.ud14e458	The representative Hansen uses as a justification why it is important to call about the EEA Agreement, taking into account Norwegian business. Once again, there is no evidence of what this would mean. With regard to market access for goods, a duty-free access to the EU market for industrial products has been available since 1977. For fish, this meant that there were changes when the EEA agreement came, compared to the trade agreement we had before, on average about approx. 2 pst. change in customs load. For the last year, a new export record was set for Norwegian seafood – nearly 100 billion. kr in export value, up to 3 pst. from the previous record year, which was the previous year. As regards trade in services, representatives from the Central Party have specifically asked the EU/EEA Minister whether she can provide any evidence that Norway has increased service exports compared to countries such as Japan, the United States and Switzerland as a result of Norway having had the EEA Agreement. No evidence of this has been submitted. On the contrary, we only get answers back again that different countries have different economies, different structures, and that it is difficult to compare countries. No documentation showing this has been submitted. To the representative of Hansen, who refers to international agreements, conventions and treaties: Yes, of course Norway is to participate in international cooperation. We have a long tradition of doing that. One of the challenges of the EEA Agreement is that it also intervenes in other international cooperation to which Norway has committed itself, including: with the International Labour Organisation (ILO) – concrete: ILO 137. Norway and the Norwegian Supreme Court have bent the EEA neck in the case of port workers, the priority rights of registered port workers to unloading and loading at Norwegian ports, as a result of the fact that the EEA Agreement is over both the Norwegian Constitution and the obligations under the ILO. To the representative of Tetzschner, who feels uncomfortable that representatives from other parties do not stand up enough for the position of the majority in this Chamber: well, he does not have to go further than internally in his own party. Some of those who have given the most direct support to the initiative of the Centre Party are the European Movement and the leader of the European Movement, Heidi Nordby Lunde, who says in an opinion that the European Movement supports the proposal for a government-appointed selection. I note that the representative Nordby Lunde is unfortunately not present in the Chamber today and can explain his view here. The alternative to the EEA Agreement and the possibilities arising from its withdrawal from the EEA Agreement are precisely to seize the opportunities to strengthen democracy, strengthen Norwegian business and society and strengthen the opportunities to take decisions in this room in support of Norwegian interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-09.ana.ud14e471	The representative, Lundtigen, said that it is not that Norway should only accept what is offered in the course of the negotiations. Of course not. However, in the case of alternatives to the EEA, there is a distinction between being inside and outside the internal market. If you want to be in the internal market, as Norway is through the EEA Agreement, you have to accept the rules of the internal market. There's nothing to go on. To participate in the European football championship, we cannot insist that the off-site rule does not apply to Norway, because we are so good with Flo passes. However, when you are outside the internal market, you have a negotiating situation on what the agreement will cover, etc. So Lundtigen says that the EEA Agreement is a torpedo to social democratic values. In other words, the years that have passed since we signed the EEA Agreement have been a prime time for the Norwegian economy and through Norwegian well-being, not least through the eight years when the Centre Party, the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party ruled together, and when labour immigration was an important contribution to everything we had done at the time. I am amazed at the constant attacks by the Centre Party on the EEA Agreement and try to weaken it. The centre party should be the hottest defender of the EEA Agreement, because it provides Norwegian industry with the tools that export industries need for our most important market, and that protects agriculture. The alternative to the EEA Agreement, in order to safeguard Norwegian commercial interests, would be membership and nothing else. So the representative Gülsvik says that there is no evidence that a trade agreement will be worse for business. The common regulatory framework is, of course, the key to achieving a level playing field. He says of course we will cooperate and participate in international cooperation. Yes, that's good, but the core is whether you're willing to state some sovereignty. If you're not, the countries will do what they want when it comes to the heel. See what we're facing now with a new president in the United States – running from commitments. If you think that brexit offers opportunities, I wonder if you'll follow the debate that goes away in the United Kingdom. I have had meetings with colleagues from the United Kingdom in various contexts, and the impression is that they have no consensus on what kind of agreement they want to replace membership. It'll be very exciting to see where this ends.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-09.ana.ud14e484	If you are to attack the views of others in the debate, you can save yourself, and not least those who are being attacked, for some irritation by quoting them correctly. I would like to say to the representative Lundtägen that I did not comment on the market forces, but on the market economy as such, and of course it is that the market economy should be subject to regulation. It seems that those who have progressed in opposition to the EU and the EEA are not aware of the lively debate and the developments in the rules that are taking place just to establish a good framework for employment as well. The Posting of Workers Directive will be the answer to a lot of what some speakers have said about moving labour, that it will be a short time before paying local wages for migrant labour. So to the point where someone says that the EEA almost threatens the Norwegian model. Now some of us are so lucky that we're also a little bit inside the Nordic political community. There is talk of the Nordic model, not the Norwegian model, and what they have in common is the following: universal welfare schemes, which are funded through taxes, good and trusting cooperation between the social partners and an open market economy. So you can't praise the Nordic or Norwegian model without also being aware that we're building our wealth on an open and competitive market economy that prevents you from meeting customs barriers. That is what I would also encourage the other side of the debate to take more into account, that the EEA Agreement is something more than a trade agreement. It's a set of collaborations in institutions that are just built up to allow peoples to get closer together. It is because culture, trade, science, but also police work, can develop more effectively in cooperation. That's also what you say no to, and that you don't use technical barriers, technical standards, which are actually hidden customs barriers to those countries that are competitive. We're a very open economy. Norway is one of the most export-oriented economies in Europe, and so some will throw us into an experiment that means that we're going to say no to immediate market access for what is at least the EU27, and then we're going to work together to make sure that we also get a good trade relationship with the United Kingdom when it's settled.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-09.ana.ud14e497	The representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-09.ana.ud14e502	Some representatives make the view of the Centre Party so that one can choose the closest international cooperation and pick what one wants to participate in. International negotiations are demanding. There are different parties, and there are different interests. The point is that we want a trade agreement that is clearly defined, where changes are to be agreed and negotiated between the parties, and not as today under the EEA Agreement that it is the one party that decides the rules and the other party that has to accept them. Of course, one should have international cooperation. Of course, one should also give sovereignty. Norway is doing this in a number of areas, and it is important both in terms of security policy and in order to safeguard the climate that we participate in internationally committed cooperation. But it's something quite different than subjecting yourself to a court based on the free movement of goods and services, capital and labour, as we do through the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-09.ana.ud14e507	I took the floor to clarify what is going on in the EEA Agreement and the relationship with the 1973 Free Trade Agreement, which ended customs duties on industrial products. It was said that it is almost unproblematic to withdraw from the EEA Agreement, because we have the old 1973 agreement, which terminated customs duties on industrial products. It is an agreement that does not cover the service sector at all, and as it was referred to, I have answered two questions about it. There were parts of that answer, but I would like to stress that the Norwegian financial industry wants the access provided by the EEA Agreement. Another important sector is the export of Norwegian maritime services, where Norwegian ships are now free to carry goods between EU ports. This possibility would lapse without the EEA Agreement. Although we have not been able to calculate what the EEA Agreement provides for the possibility of trade in services compared to the US, Japan or Switzerland, it is quite clear from our answer that for each Norwegian service company, the EEA Agreement provides better conditions for market access than for WTO or other agreements, such as US, Japan or Switzerland companies. I think that is a very clear response to the fact that the Norwegian service sector has better market conditions than that of the United States, Japan or Switzerland. Then, of course, there are many other factors involved in assessing the level of these sectors between countries. Customs rates are a small part of the large picture in terms of market access. 170 vehicle trains with fresh fish go to the EU market every day from Norway. The fact that we are part of the Common Veterinary Code in Europe, which means that no country can stop Norwegian fish, test it or expose it to some form of market barrier, means that we have an incredibly good market access, and that we have a predictable framework for our fishing exports to the EU, even though fish themselves are not part of the EEA Agreement. So a common regulatory framework and the full scope of what we live on, in terms of both goods and services and exports, is important in terms of the EEA.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-09.ana.ud14e516	Right wants to bring the market economy to a minimum, and then the EEA Agreement is a very good tool. However, the problem for the Right is that nuclear electors in the Right, among others. those related to the craft sector now experience unfair competition. Those who have their own employees, with apprentices, and are a decent, long-term enterprise, have unfair competition as the EEA system operates. So to the representative Hansen: Representative Hansen looks at the EEA agreement so far as a gleaming period. It must be seen in relation to the time we have spent, but it must also be seen in relation to whom we associate. Who we associate is of great importance to how we look at the EEA Agreement in the field of employment. If you associate with those who experience unfair competition in the world of work, you get a different view of it, and that's what the Center Party draws from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-09.ana.ud14e523	I take the floor to say that I think the representative of Gülsvik's last post was clarifying: the centre party is willing to, in international cooperation, also to give sovereignty. Then one can agree or disagree on the areas in which it is to be done – that is, of course, part of the political debate. But the argument most often put forward by the Central Party team, and not least by Steinar Ness here in this debate, is the democratic argument – that it is not democratic if it is not adopted here in this House. Then my point is that we cannot achieve internationally committed cooperation. Now, the representative, Gielsvik, has opened up the possibilities for us to give up sovereignty. We may disagree on which areas, but I hope that the Central Party will take it further into consideration in the future debate, including with regard to the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-09.ana.ud14e532	Steinar Ness has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-09.ana.ud14e538	The important thing when entering into international commitments is that the commitments entered into are known and treated and taken up in connection with the conclusion of the actual agreement. The dynamic feature of the EEA Agreement, which makes it undemocratic, is that in the extension of the conclusion of the EEA Agreement, there will be a series of legislation which Stortinget cannot decide, which was not presented to Stortinget and which Stortinget could not say at the time the agreement was concluded. With a little goodwill, I believe that the representative Hansen understands that there is an important fundamental difference. Finally, I am absolutely sure that in the long run we will have more discussions about what is happening in the workplace, not just about social dumping, but about a pure labour market crime that undermines serious, honest, law-abiding Norwegian employers, of whom we fortunately have many.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-09.ana.ud14e547	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-09.ana.ud14e559	The size is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-09.ana.ud14e568	During the debate, one proposal was put forward, by Steinar Næss on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a wide-ranging public selection to make a thorough and broadest possible review of the consequences of the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the EU and Norway’s alternatives to the EEA Agreement.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-09.ana.ud14e585	The Green Party has announced its support for the vote. Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-09.ana.ud14e627	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
