ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e83	From the Workers' Group there is an application for sick leave for the representative Elise Bjørnebeck-Waagen on the 18th and 19th December. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The Vara representative, Siv Henriette Jacobsen, is proposed to meet during the leave period. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Siv Henriette Jacobsen is present and will take the seat. The representative of Mr Eirik Faret Sakariassen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e100	On behalf of the representative Audun Lysbakken and myself, I would like to make a proposal to prevent a development in which workers lose fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e105	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's Storting meeting continues beyond noon. 16 until today's map has been processed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e125	No one has asked for the floor. At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Energy and the Environment. 2-4 is treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e165	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Green Party 5 minutes and Red 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to four lines with replies from the main speakers of the parties and six lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative, Mr Ketil Kjeseth, the chairman and rapporteur of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, does not appear to be in the Chamber. Then we will proceed to the representative Espen Barth Eide.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e180	The backbone of this debate could not have been more serious. We have received the report from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) on 1.5 degrees, we have had a successful climate change summit in Katowice, and we have had the presentation of the Climate Change Committee report here at home. All these events, reports and events should be taken with us when we are now discussing what in many ways must be the framework of all policies in the years to come. It's a serious warning, and we know more than ever about the seriousness of climate change. It's just so serious that we're living now, it's our generation, deciding what the living conditions will be for all the generations that come after us. The greenhouse effect is really quite easy to explain. The earth is at a reasonable distance from the sun. We get enough heat in, and enough heat leaves us again to have just the climate that has created the living conditions on Earth as we know it, with little natural variations. When we pump up and burn large amounts of fossil fuel and in other ways contribute to CO 2 emissions, we get a layer of greenhouse gas that lies around the earth. It limits how much of the heat comes out again. Equally much comes in that comes out, and the earth gets warmer and warmer. When I was born, which was not that long ago, we had succeeded in heating up the earth with approx. 0.25 degrees. So in the years that have gone by, we've reached 1 degree. It's not just me, it's an international 'cooperation' that has contributed to this warming up. But we see an exponential increase in the future. We know that there's a difference of 1.5 degrees and 2 degrees. One of the most important things about the IPCC report is that we have come to understand that the difference we need to pay more attention to. The Paris Agreement aims to limit the heating on earth to 2 degrees but preferably to 1.5 degrees. Now we see that it might be that the very tipping points where self-strengthening effects occur, methane gas is emitted from the permafrost when it thaws, the sea ice melts, you get less reflection out again, etc., can occur between just 1.5 and 2 degrees. It is very urgent to do something about this, so this must be an imperative, not least for a country like Norway, which has an important voice in international work. I already want to acknowledge that the efforts made by Minister for Climate and Environment Elvesuen in Katowice clearly contributed constructively to the agreement we had after all. Many have said that Katowice could have been better. I agree, but it has to be measured against the international state we're in now, where, compared to 2015, we only have a much worse international climate than we had. Then we had e.g. The United States in a leadership role. The United States behaved better than many would have thought, but not in comparison as well as they did in 2015. Some other things have also happened that make us say that this was quite successful. So it's a big deal, and this is something people notice. It has been so long that the insight that climate scientists have given us has been theoretically understandable, but difficult to recognize in everyday life. I think the last year, with drought, forest fires, even more flooding and going, has also given the Norwegians an increased awareness that this is something that is here and now, not something that is going to happen in the long run. So we have to take this extremely seriously. It must be the framework of all policies. The good news is as good as the bad is bad, and the good news is that we also have more insight than we've ever had in how this can be solved. We know that it is possible to produce enough energy on earth through renewable sources in some way. We know that it is possible to find out about carbon capture and storage technology, even though it is a long way to go until we have successful large-scale solutions. We know that a lot of the process industry can switch to low-carbon and zero-emission solutions, and that there's a lot of exciting work out there to get to it. Over many years of efforts by many governments, Norway has become a leading country in the electrification of the transport sector. We have a record in the number of electric cars per capita. We get electric ferries. There is a lot of good going on in the area of electrification, and I think we're going to set ourselves the goal that all transport in Norway can be fossil-free – emission-free – in the near future, well-helped by Avinor, who believes that all domestic air transport can become electrical by 2040, and who themselves says that when they got on that idea, it sounded a little hairy – if it's a legitimate word, President – but that they now see that it's almost not ambitious, as soon as development goes on in this area. So our challenge is to take serious action on us and seize all the possibilities. There is quite a broad consensus on what Norway is doing out there. To the extent that there's some disagreement in this room, it's probably going so much on what we're doing at home, and on how clearly we're going to set our own national emission targets. I miss good answers to what is Norway's own ambitions. I am a warm supporter of our association with the EU to have common demands and goals. I also have great faith in the European quota system in the ETS sector, but I believe that, in the non-quota sector, we should be able to set ourselves the goal of meeting those requirements on our own without using the so-called flexibility mechanism. Then I believe that we need to establish as quickly as possible that we are doing in Norway what the Labour Party already did in its alternative budget, namely to create an emissions budget. It's all about the simple realization that if we're going to guide a zero-emission society in the near future, we have to know how to dispose of the emissions that we have left. Then I want to repeat something here that I also said in a previous debate, but as it is incredibly important to take over. The state budget comes every year, and what you can't get through this year can be tried again. But the emissions budget is final. If we're going to aim for 2 degrees of heating, we're going to have 20 years left with today's consumption level. Should we aim at 1.5, we have significantly fewer. The scholars argue about how much, but there are very few years left, and now Katowice has in many ways been a confirmation that there is 1.5 we should control. This is emissions we have left on behalf of everyone who comes after us. It's not emissions we have left in our generation. There are emissions all generations have left, so it's relatively healthy to think that it's okay that we release everything that's left to be released on Earth. That is why I believe that we must have an emission budget and that we must also be able to measure. A good news from the Katowice Summit is that you now have a rulebook. It will make it much easier to measure across countries, but we also need to show that we can go ahead, and we need to increase our ambitions, and we need to have our own national ambitions. Then I believe that we must also have sectoral ambitions and sectoral plans and sectoral scales of success. We have proposed a CO 2 fund for business transport. We believe that the best way to do this is to enter into a partnership with the business community itself, i.e. with those involved in transport, so that we can have the same success with trucks and vans that we have had with passenger cars in Norway. It is to be done through a fund that also helps business to structure and dispose of. We believe that the solution is better than that proposed by the government, although we also recognise that they are concerned about the issue. Here we have a different view of how to do it. We have to do the same in all other sectors. Incredibly exciting things are happening in Norwegian industry, how much of the process industry, which is today a significant contributor to emissions, is now trying to develop low-carbon carbon solutions and emission-free solutions and can continue to drive production. It's actually like if we had 200 years on us and not 20, we could actually lean back and let the market solve a lot of this, because a lot of this comes through the market in the long term. But we don't have that time. That is why we need an active industrial policy that actively facilitates making the most sensible choices in the market and also rewards those who make the wise choices. We have to get a lot better at addressing the need for increased resource productivity, i.e. not once, but many times – what is also known as the circular economy. In this there is not only a much better management of nature, but there are also good business opportunities, good opportunities for jobs and jobs. Finally, I would like to mention as an introduction to this debate that the topic of fair transition, which has not least been put on the agenda by the trade union movement, is extremely important because we are faced with a shifting process that is larger than what we have ever been on. We're going to have to be a completely different place in 10, 20 and 30 years from where we are today. People's lives will be changed. We can't avoid that. Many will call for continuity where there is a difference where change is needed. It has to be inclusive and fair, and it's also important, and I hope it can also shape the debate we're about to have on a very important topic. I would also like to raise the proposal on which the Labour Party is involved, and look at Mrs Am for a good debate today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e216	The representative Espen Barth Eide has taken up the suggestion he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e223	What is remarkable about this 10-minute post is how bare it was for a description of the Worker Party's concrete climate action. This is because they have submitted an alternative budget for climate policy that is not innovative, not original, is not unique in any way. It is also nice that the representative Barth Eide speaks out the government's climate policy, even though he later does not. Then, of course, it is sad that he supports the myth that we do not have national climate targets in Norway. But I have a question about the CO 2 fund, because the Workers' Party claims that it is those who have made this proposal. It's not, everyone can see and hear with their eyes and ears. But in this there is a tax exemption. The Labour Party has granted 700 million. to initiate all these exemptions, and subsequently as if there were no real negotiations. [[President clubs]] Why do they just want to jump on a model they've got from somewhere else instead of having a good dialogue with business about how this is going to be done? [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e233	To the representative Heggelund's opening post, I would say that it was a deliberate wish from me to say that this is a problem we should be dealing with together, and that is so big that it might not be suitable for the most banal polemic about who does the most. But if Heggelund wants to, I promise to come back to the debate with many examples that our budget is much better, including. That we've granted 3 billion. more about a wide range of concrete actions that my co-representatives will support in the course of the debate. So he shouldn't worry that the Workers' Party program doesn't come up. I would draw up a broader framework, also because the committee chairman was not present when the debate began. To the specific question from the representative, I would like to say that I believe that the best way to make this transition is to make it in partnership with those it affects the most. I think it is very valuable that both the NHO and the parts of the NHO that are concerned about this, in consultation with the LO, have wanted to make exactly the model where they are partners in the conversion. The most important thing here is not to get the fees. It has sometimes been claimed that the Right is more concerned with the market than we are in the right direction, and I want to get Right on it. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e240	The President will recall in this debate, at the outset, that the speaking time in the lines is 1 minute, and that should be respected by the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e245	The working party provided a greenhouse gas emission allowance to the budget of the year, which is affordable enough. In the so-called non-quota sector, the Labour Party chooses to disregard the possibility of using the EU ETS to meet Norwegian climate obligations. As everyone knows, there is considerable uncertainty about future greenhouse gas emissions costs. On request of the Ministry of Finance, I was told that such a decision as the Workers' Party makes here could cost up to 2 billion kroner. kr annually and nearly 20 br. kr during this period. With price differences that have existed between the domestic cut and the purchase of allowances outside, you can get ten times larger emission cuts for exactly the same sum. Is not the Labour Party's climate policy to maximise greenhouse gas emissions by 2030?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e250	We have two important objectives in this part of climate policy. One is to reduce emissions, the other is to ensure that Norway is at an early stage in taking action. Then we have made an important distinction between the quota and non-quota sectors. As the representative is fully aware, we are hot followers of what is called the ETS, i.e. the European ETS market in the ETS sector. We were before, we are now, it was Norway before, and so is Norway now. Thus, a new measure has been proposed, namely that in the non-quota sector, i.e. domestic transport, local transport, waste management, one should also be able to buy measures in Bulgaria to replace doing something at home. We think that's wrong. We believe that a country that may have made more money on emissions than any other country on the globe should be ambitious enough to meet these requirements at home. In addition, we believe that Norwegian business will benefit from early conversion, as has been done, when there are still adjustments to be made. It's going to cost money, but it's much more expensive not to do these grips, because then you have to do it later, and you lose the opportunity, for example. to develop clusters of nutrients by being early outdoors.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e257	It's certainly not a daring prediction to say that climate and predators are going to be two themes that characterize this debate. Then my question about the Workers' Party is that the government is following the predatory settlement. Or is the Workers' Party in agreement with the Center Party that the Hobøl and Manganese teams too should be our shots, as the robbers recommended?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e262	I look forward to many good posts, not least from the representatives of the Central Party on the wolf during the day, so it is good that we get this on the track quickly. We have contributed to a broad consensus in Stortinget, and we believe that the most important thing at this point is that Storting's decision is fulfilled. We have wolf zones and non-wolf zones, and we have some survival targets. When stock targets are exceeded, the profit reduction shall begin. We share the Central Party's concern that the government may have gone beyond what the Stortinge has decided, and we are going to ask during the day for a clearer explanation of how the government believes this is in line with the decisions of the Stortingeet. If not, the rate should be adjusted accordingly.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e270	The representative Barth Eide gave an important and good description of the challenges facing the world. If we're going to be able to limit the global temperature increase to well below 2 degrees and very much less than 1.5 degrees, a lot of coal, oil and gas must remain in the ground. We can't even record everything we've found. When we have found too much fossil energy, my question to the Workers' Party is: why does the party then go in to spend money on next year's state budget to look for even more fossil energy, which must remain on the ground?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e277	We are concerned that the oil and gas industry should also have predictability and that no changes will be made to the oil tax regime overnight. If these changes are to be made, it must be done by thorough and inclusive processes, so that you know what you are doing, because this is a large and important matter area. However, I would like to draw attention to what the Climate Risk Committee says, namely that all sectors, and therefore also the oil and gas sector, must test their models and their planning in terms of both the economic climate risk of the country, i.e. that of, for example. falling demand in the future, the climate policy itself and also compatibility with the Paris Agreement. I expect that we will have a discussion in the future about how these things relate, but for next year's budget, the search for fusion continues as it has done this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e284	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e289	New technology offers enormous opportunities. New ways to organise by sharing more resources, using more and more, and using more can reduce resource withdrawals. Some people like to call it creating and sharing. In the left hand side, we call it a green shift. If the world succeeds in limiting warming down to 1.5 degrees, global emissions need to be cut down to 0 by the middle of this century. Then we just have to have negative emissions. With ample access to green renewable energy, Norway has a unique opportunity to be a leading country. As a major exporter of fossil energy, we have a moral responsibility to face up to the green transition. Norwegian climate policy must aim to cut emissions as quickly as possible, develop technological and social solutions that enable the world to achieve zero emissions, contribute to the achievement of zero emissions by the mid-century, and convert the Norwegian economy. This transformation must also contribute to a development that ensures biodiversity and a sustainable welfare society. The representative, Barth Eide, started with a post that shows that there is a broad consensus in Norway about our contribution, and then there are some political dividing lines that shape the debate. One thing is tax. Another part of the debate is how much domestic versus how much abroad. As we will probably also hear from today's debate, what does protection mean in the overall sense of taking care of the climate? Are there two different debates? No, of course not. I choose to start with the tax debate, because it is actually an important part of this debate. When SV wants to spend 20 billion. kr more from the community and take it in, I think a get little new policy out of it, except to say that one will put on a little more than the measures proposed by the government. The working party goes down to almost 10 billion. kr more. There's also a lot of money, and they get even less new policies out of it. In addition, the Labour Party wants to spend quite a lot of money on climate budgeting, which is a further red tape. Once we haven't started reporting, which is our first goal, we should take it first and start reporting. The debate on domestic and foreign issues is an important debate, but in terms of emissions in Europe, it is important for Norway to contribute to the testing of technology where it can both produce great effects and perhaps be cheaper to try out than in Norway. Norway is a small country, so spending that dynamics and money effectively is very important. As far as the debate on protection is concerned, loss of nature is one of the major challenges of our time. We lose species almost every day. It's an important part of the changes that happen in the climate, which is also our responsibility. We're going to hand over the globe to the next generation -- actually in better condition than when our generation took it over. It's a big challenge for us. It involves preserving the diversity of species. It also implies that we have committed ourselves internationally to preserving the five large predators. It's important to give the next generations the same experience of nature that we have. Technological developments are important, and the Left has been a driver, among others. in order to establish Nysnø, in the break of Enova, in the break of climate legislation, for that part. An important part of this debate is that the Energy and Environment Committee is becoming a kind of new nutrition committee. We see a business that comes and wants tougher demands, almost zero emission requirements, in Norway to use it as a training arena, the test arena to create a market and export opportunities. It is also an exciting development, and it is an offensive business that knocks on the door and is almost more offensive than we in the Stortinget are. We also see that consumers change habits. Now in 2018 an electric car will be Norway's most sold car, but we need to have long lines, because it's been 15 years since we started with today's electric car policy. So we have to make sure that these offensive efforts take some time to achieve what we politicians want. There is a combination of offensive measures and offensive tax policies that move us further, and offensive industrial policy is also incredibly important.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e312	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e317	The representative, Kjeseth, said a lot about the link between climate policy and industrial policy. He did the same observation that I do, that a lot of business demands stricter demands – because it can be the driving force. Is the representative comfortable not actually having independent national requirements, either in the quota and non-quota sectors, but that everything should be taken together with the EU? When we ask the government how much to take home, the answer is as much as possible. I feel that it is extremely difficult to measure if you have achieved the ‘most possible’, because it is a fairly liberal concept. Would it not have been a good idea actually to be so ambitious that we say that in the non-quota sector at least we are able to make our own demands – and then, of course, with the incentives and measures that are needed to actually meet them? Is that not the right way to move forward for a country like Norway, which has served well on emissions, and actually shows that it is possible to go ahead?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e322	I thank you for the question. Now we are in the final phase of negotiations with the EU on a common strategy. The goal is to cut 40 pst. by 2030. That's a very concrete goal. Then we've said it's a floor, not a thank you. The example is the non-quota sector in the transport sector, where we have a target of cut 50 pst. It's an even more ambitious goal, it's incredibly ambitious. That means we have to replace a lot of fossil fuels. Among other things, we must: produce more biofuels in Norway, also in cooperation with our neighbouring Nordic countries, in order to cope with that migration. Several more electric cars also need to start using, and we need to use more biogas and hydrogen. So it's offensive. When you say we have no goals – we have very concrete goals to cut. Then we'll see. We're going into government negotiations over New Year's. We are in the process of implementing the agreements with the EU, and we have set objectives in Katowice with a commitment to follow up the Paris Agreement. So everything is in place for Norway to take more action.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e331	We welcome the agreement with the European Union. We think it's high time it came, and we're glad that it's now a good deal. The EU proved itself in Katowice to be in the forefront with the most ambitious countries. That's very good, and we should cooperate closely with them. There's no disagreement about, as far as I know, here in the hall. The disagreement is whether we should still have independent national targets, because when governments and government parties answer this question, it is the objectives we meet with the European Union. But now the EU has over-achieved its 2020 targets, and Norway is not prepared to meet its 2020 targets. Should we not also set some targets for ourselves, at least in the non-quota sector? There was no previous intention to do internationally, because the quota-free sector was created because it was precisely the issues that are best suited to international cooperation, while the waste management was local and local transport, etc. suitable for local solutions. Wouldn't it have been even better, I say again, if we had dared to set our own national targets and not just point to a broad goal that we have with many other countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e336	As I pointed out, we have now set ourselves a 50 pst target in the transport sector. It's a very concrete goal, and it's even more offensive than 40 pst. So now there's a basic report to negotiate with agriculture about cutting there, so we're on our way to raising ambitions and making sectoral agreements. We are discussing the transport sector. What kind of tools are they going to get is one example, but we're coming up here, and this is going up and down. But the framework for the international cooperation agreements has been important to get in place in 2018, and then we can get started. In the budgetary position now, there are for the first time sector-by-sector censuses of what emissions we have. This is also the basis for going tougher to work: what emissions are we going to take out faster, and of course in the cheapest way? There we have to do a job when we are now delivering to both the EU and the UN in 2020. We're going to start reporting, and then we're going to have to tighten up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e343	It was good that the representative Kjeseth came to the debate, because I was a little afraid I was going to miss a line on predators. As the Left is certainly well pleased with, the decision was taken to overrun the Rovviltnänder's proposal on the withdrawal of 17 wolves within the wolf zone yesterday. The stock of wolves is far above what a broad majority of the Storting has said it should be, and the Environment Directorate has clearly stated that the wolf population would not be threatened if the decision of the Rovviltnänderna was maintained. Yesterday's decision says take out two, maybe three wolves within the zone. It is a decision that will not help to bring down the population at all. The stock target of the wolf is today at four to six young people. We now have a population that is almost double. Is the Left concerned with following the predatory game agreement and dealing with the stock target, or is it satisfied with having put the Progress Party and the Right on the sideline and could control the predatory game policy at its sole discretion?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e352	This is an important part of the debate, so I thank the representative Borch for that question. As I said in my post, it is important to take care of the predators also in the climate change we are in. The representative said that we have now run over the Rovvilt topic, but that is not correct. It's a tough decision that the government has made. You take out the so-called Slagås and not the other two giants. It is not to be overrun, but to be over-tested — for individual predators, the national authority does not have a separate authority. It's a national policy management of predatory game. We're busy with it. We're putting more money into management. The State's nature oversight is better to take out, they are good at sitting in the mail and taking when killing permits are granted. It's important. We must be in the forefront. We also need to put more resources in place for conversion, and where predators are given priority, it needs to be an instrument for that conversion to take place.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e362	A few days ago, we heard that the government of the left felt that the Jeløya platform was out of date on climate policy, and that we know more today than we knew when it was written. To say that when the Jeløya platform was written, we also knew incredibly much about the serious climate turmoil that the world is facing. But now leave it. The message from the Left was that, in the forthcoming government negotiations, the climate should be given much tougher priority. I would then challenge the representative, Kjeseth, to tell us three things that the Left wants to fight for in the climate field in a new government platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e369	Yes, that was a very concrete challenge. In the statement that the representative Haltbrecken has probably read, I don't think we said that the Jeleya platform is out of date. On the contrary, it is a very good platform. But it's possible to raise ambitions, and that's what we're going to try to do in the new government negotiations. We're saying that it's possible to increase the level of ambition for cuts to 55 pst. in Norway. It's very ambitious, and here people, wallets and businesses are going to hang around – so it's a tough challenge. Another challenge, which we so far have talked little about in the debate, is climate adaptation. We also need to do more of that, because climate change has already created challenges. We're going to have to live with both wetter, wilder and for the part drier weather in periods, and it requires that we take action in Norway to adapt and live with some of the natural disasters that will come in the next few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e378	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e383	Norway is a country of the past; it is the most plentiful with historical pioneers of energy. Hydropower and electricity opportunities were a major issue already at the end of the 1800s in our country. Our modern society is built on the use of rivers and waterfalls for power generation. Renewable hydropower is our carrier and will be there in the foreseeable future. Norway is an energy nation. In the last century, one of the biggest industrial adventures was created in our oceans. Today, the petroleum industry employs about 180 000 people, and it accounts for about 180,000 people. every 7 kronor of the State budget. We export Norwegian oil and gas to many countries. The oil is used for several purposes, including: petrochemistry, while the gas is contributing to e.g. The United Kingdom can get rid of its coal completely. Technologically, Norway is at the forefront of energy. It is crucial in a world around the world. One billion people live without it. The fight against international poverty is also about this. Our national competence is invaluable in this work. The EU has also opened its eyes to energy cooperation opportunities, and now we are going to work together on renewable energy in Europe, which serves Norway economically and industrially, but is also important from a climate perspective. Our competence shall not be impaired; it shall be developed and broken. This is why we are strengthening research efforts to increase sustainable value creation, employment and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. For a long time, we have also seen how technology development on the base contributes to technology development in very different disciplines, for example. medicine. The engineering we see in the Norwegian renewable industry and on the pedestal will be crucial in the green transition. For too long, the world has done too little to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Man-made climate change is today our biggest challenge, even if you wouldn't believe it in view of the presence of the press department here today. The result of climate change can be seen already today, including in Norway. Worse still, the world's poor is affected. Climate change damages nature and changes people's living conditions. It would be directly unconservative not to fight climate change. Although the media had a 1.5-degree report drowned in sugar and gluten, it is a strong reminder of what can happen if each country alone and all countries together do not do enough. I understand that some people may get tired of hearing these things, and the father is that this is gradually developing to be a fluke. At the same time, there is also an obligation to talk about it and continue to put it on the agenda. With the draft budget and the budgetary unity of the Christian People's Party, the four parties deliver a very offensive climate budget. Yes, it is the greenest budget that has been delivered in Norway. I will take some of the main priorities, but let me also mention that we are now reporting on greenhouse gas emissions, for the first time. It had to be a civil majority to do it. I have recorded that climate demonstrations have been arranged against the budget. Well, those demonstrations were based on the fact that the government has brought on just how much to cut if we're going to achieve our 2030 targets. Unfortunately, a myth arose, a totally false representation, that the government will only cut 13 pst. until 2030. It's completely wrong. Reporting, on the other hand, helps us to see what will be cut with policies already adopted. We have said that climate policy should be strengthened every year, as we also contributed to strengthening climate policy for the red-green parties. In the budget, we continue to bet on cutting both at home and outside. We allocate more money to make Norwegian workplaces greener. We provide more money for climate investments in Norwegian companies. We maintain and strengthen our strong commitment to reducing emissions in the transport sector. We allocate more money to the Climate Initiative in the municipalities. Let's start working on green shipping. And not least: we continue the offensive work on CO2 management, which will be necessary for the world to achieve its climate goals. At the climate summit in Katowice, Norway was given a leading role, including: because of our strong efforts at national and international level. We increase the allocation of the world's rainforest and secure funds for work that make it easier to detect forest crime. We allocate more money to renewable energy in developing countries, so that these countries can skip the fossil phase. It is a crucial point to prevent the development of coal. Also in nature protection, we strengthen the work. We have taken the lead in the work against marine littering and plastic in the sea. Norway has taken the leading role in the world. We're continuing to invest in forest protection, we're continuing the important work on ecological base maps, and we're strengthening our national parks. I am pleased with the Christian People's Party budgetary unity. Together, the four parties show that the climate initiative remains on the civil side.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e411	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e416	There was a lot to grab into that we'll probably get more time to discuss during the debate, but I want to get hold of one of the most important climate promises of the Right. In 2012, the climate agreement was concluded here at Stortinget. Since 2013, the Right has had the Prime Minister and ruled the country. They went to the elections to promise to strengthen the climate agreement. As we approach 2020, we know what the verdict is. The climate agreement will not be reinforced. It's not even being observed. It is the judgment after five years with Erna Solberg as Prime Minister. Can Stefan Heggelund confirm that the climate agreement will not be reinforced, but on the contrary broken with the policy of this government?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e421	It would be very strange and perhaps a little surprising if I were to confirm something like that. It couldn't have occurred to me. We have reinforced the climate agreement, and we are closer to achieving the 2020 targets than ever. It is necessary to return to 1995 in order to find lower greenhouse gas emissions in Norway. Greenhouse gas emissions are declining with this government, both in the quota and non-quota sectors. As if that were not enough, Norwegian climate policy is now more ambitious than it has ever been. We have more ambitious targets for 2030 than we've ever had. We have linked our climate policy to the EU, which ensures a comprehensive strategy and sectoral ambitions. There is something new in Norwegian climate policy, and we never got it from the red-green government. You have to listen when the Labour Party is talking about climate policy. This is, after all, a party that has been busy with the climate for about five minutes now, and that in its own alternative budget uses the emissions they've picked up from the government, so it's not particularly impressive effort on their part this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e428	It was said that the Workers' Party has been busy with the climate for five minutes. Well, the whole concept of sustainable development comes from the head of the Workers' Party and Norway's Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland. It falls on its own unreasonableness. But I want to keep following up my question, because Stefan Heggelund said that we have never been closer to achieving the 2020 targets. Well, now at the end of 2018 it was going to be obvious that we were closer than in 2012. Otherwise, it would have been a total disaster policy that the government has led. Once again, I would like to ask Stefan Heggelund: does he think that we are going to strengthen the climate agreement and over-achieve the 2020 objectives, or does he agree with the Prime Minister and the Minister for Climate Change's statement in debates, that it is very unlikely that we will achieve the climate agreement for 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e435	The assumption that cuts in Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions only come about by themselves because the years go by is the logic of the Workers' Party – so we are now closer to the 2020 targets because we are near 2020, have celebrated some New Year's Eves and enjoyed it together. That's not the way climate policy works. It is not by chance that emissions go down. It is not accidental to have to go back to 1995 to find equally low emissions in Norway. This is because we have had an offensive and ambitious investment, for example. in the transport sector, where emissions continue to decline, precisely because we are taking concrete measures to bring emissions down into what may be our greatest national responsibility, the non-quota sector. The problem with the Workers' Party is that we are now implementing a climate policy that reduces emissions, that is successful, that attracts attention internationally, and that makes us take a leading role, even when there are climate summits. It should be the Workers' Party rather than criticizing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e440	Last week, the EU and Norway agreed on the next step in an agreement to meet the 2030 emission target. Among other things, there are: the code of accounting for forestry and land use, and I registered that the representative Heggelund talked about the historical resource management in Norway. In such a light, it's strange to notice that the Right has been involved in adopting a target of 10 pst. the protection of all forests in Norway, while we know that the world needs all the biomass we can get to limit global warming to 1.5-2 degrees. Forest protection and new restrictions result in less biomass from forest availability and may limit the possibility of carbon negative solutions. Last week, the timber industry in Trøndelag warned that the protection plans will make it harder to obtain raw material. In addition, the EU Agreement may constitute a major obstacle to the use of forests. How will the Right in Government ensure that the Norwegian forest industry is given the framework conditions of the EU agreement that ensure increasing the maximum and use of forest as a climate change solution?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e447	The representative of Myhrvold is well aware of the comments we had when we dealt with the climate communication, and it is quite right, as the representative says, that we should also have an active forestry in Norway. But I think it's a little funny to get this question from a representative who wanted to strangle Norwegian biofuel industry. Now you're kind of concerned with the bio-food industry, but when the Center Party put in government, you did everything you could to ruin the development of this industry in Norway. We've fixed that up. Voluntary forest protection in Norway is also important from a climate perspective, as forests bind carbon. It's got everybody other than the Center Party. I think it would be good in this debate to hear from the other red-green parties what they think about the central party going to cut about. 130 million in forest protection in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e455	Now I'm sure the representative Heggelund thinks I should ask him about palm oil, but I won't. There is a lot of disagreement in climate policy, but we agree on this, and it is the Storting Climate Goal that emissions in Norway will reach a maximum of 48.6 million tonnes in 2020. Now we're approaching the exam, and we still have some defects in the emission cuts, to put it mildly. Then we have to ask ourselves, have we really tried to do what we can, or do we have things we should do? It's better to reach the goal one or two years late than just to give it up. I therefore have two challenges for the representative of Heggelund. Will the Right agree to impose zero emissions of greenhouse gases in new breeding permits and will the Right agree to impose requirements on the use of hydrogen in the off-shore feed?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e460	It would have been better if the representative Haltbrecken had asked for palm oil instead of getting into the theme that has already been mentioned in this row. I would like to remind you that I have talked about the 2020 targets. We're closer to reaching them than we've ever done. It doesn't come of itself. SV made choices about not achieving the 2020 targets. I think it's funny every time SV talks about the 2020 targets, because there's news articles on news from the election campaign on SV's climate action, but you wouldn't achieve the 2020 goals with the SV presented in the 2017 election campaign. Then they make a number of proposals that seem to help achieve the 2020 targets. They have some with the Workers' Party, as the Workers' Party also mentions in its alternative climate budget. Well, a number of these actions will be implemented in 2020 or later, so they will also not contribute to achieving the 2020 targets. So we have a realistic policy. With regard to the two things the representative asked for, I would say that we are betting on a Nordic hydrogen strategy – this is what we are working on – and we are working on green shipping to bring down emissions from the marine industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e467	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e472	I would like to thank you for your good cooperation in the Committee. For the sixth time in a row, the Progress Party is involved in a majority budget aimed at making people's everyday lives a little easier. There are an incredible number of measures to allocate money to, whether through municipalities, health companies or hubs. But there are significantly fewer ways to generate income. In order not to start a debate about different ways of taxing individuals and businesses – which others can do significantly better than myself – I would rather go straight to my point: we have been very lucky in Norway with the revenues from the petroleum industry. Some 170 000 employees in the industry alone contribute more than 230 billion. kr only for the purpose of obtaining the budget of the year in port. How clever it is can certainly be discussed, but no one can deny that this money comes from one sector alone, namely our business on a Norwegian base. The debate on climate is increasingly concerned about the consequences of what happens when decisions are taken that lead to exploration, findings and investments on Norwegian soil. I think it is time to challenge the same consequences on whether these investments are not implemented. I hear more and more, of increasing numbers, about shutting down the petroleum industry. Actually, a little finer words are used, such as phase-out and controlled winding-up. But is there anyone who thinks that saying from today that in 2035 oil and gas are not to be produced on a Norwegian base, does the consequences come in 2035? Then a little bit more than just naive. In a few months, tens of thousands would be unemployed, and there would be a significant impact on the financing of Norwegian welfare. Why does this winding-up process not dare to tell the inhabitants of this country about the consequences of such a policy? No one dares tell the citizens that this is going to go beyond our welfare offer. It will go beyond the offer of the elderly and the school offering to our children and lead to major changes in our society. I hope someone takes this challenge and tells me. For this crowd is totally dependent on our policies to fund their own. Climate shall be the basis for attitudes on the closure of Norwegian pedestal. The truth is that if we wind up a Norwegian socket, the world's emissions will rise. But it's just in the short term, it's said – 10-20 years. And I thought it was urgent. The world is growing with a Germany every year. Many hundreds of millions of people are without access to energy. Should we deny them that? If we want to give the world's inhabitants the same opportunities that we ourselves have had, we have to facilitate increased energy production, but we have to facilitate as climate-friendly energy production as possible. Norwegian gas gives Europe the opportunity to reduce its emissions. If we fail Norwegian petroleum industry, we fail Europe, and we fail to fight for a better climate. It is not just the petroleum industry that matters. For almost all production in Norway, there is a less climate impact than what we see outside our borders. Norway has acceded to the Paris Agreement, and in the non-quota sector, we have voluntarily concluded an agreement with the EU to cut 40pst. of our emissions by 2030. Now more and more people are coming to say that the goal is not good enough, that we need to cut more, and in addition, everyone is going to be cut in Norway. I have the impression that it's not very thoughtful, but it's more like thinking about a number or inspired by the best in the class. But here's no one interested in discussing the consequences. Where are we going to take this reduction? There's a limit on how much we can cut in transport. For then, business and agriculture are at stake. Most of the parties still want Norwegian agriculture and Norwegian food production. With these demands, we're adding Norwegian food production, and then we're starting to import the same food. We produce the world's purest aluminium, but on the day the pilot was opened on Hydro Karmøy, emissions rose in Norway. If this production is moved from Norway, domestic emissions are likely to improve significantly, but global emissions will increase.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e489	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e494	In December 2016, the NVE submitted a report stating that today’s level of funding does not allow many hedging projects to be implemented. Furthermore, the NVE suggests that increased appropriations could lead to a reduction in the cost to society of floods and avalanches. The previous budget of this government did not deliver in that area, nor does it deliver. The Labour Party has proposed an increase of 150 million. kr. Now the Progress Party has brought a number of things to Stortinget and asked for help from others than the government partners. Will it also be possible to assess if it is not achieved — and to ensure better access to future budgets for the population of floods and culverts?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e499	This government has been betting – and has been investing throughout the period – on flood and escape protection. We've had a steady increase in an area that's very challenging. The need for hedge funds is increasing, and we know that we are facing many and major challenges. I see that it has taken a position that it is cut in these budgets, but one misunderstands a little bit. We had a couple of crisis packages that made the appropriations rise enormously over a few years. Now, once again, we have the so-called crisis billions, but we're still at a higher level. And we're going to do that, we're going to bet on this. We have a large increase in monitoring to see what resources need to be allocated to future budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e504	I do not criticise for cuts, but I criticise for the lack of increase in appropriations. Because we know that it is much cheaper to prevent than to repair, and not least there is less burden on the inhabitants who live in flooded and scraped areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e509	Yes, and as I say, we're going to give priority to this area. But what's important now is to look at the scale and see the situation in the future. No matter who will be in the future, one has enough to give more money, and within this area, like so many other areas, it makes sense to go in and prevent instead of just repairing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e514	I have noticed that the representative Halleland has been a little dissatisfied with his own government's predatory policy in the last few days, and in particular about the decision on the wolf. I have also noticed that the representative has called for a change in the law in order to get more wolves shot to get on the stock target. I can inform you that today the Central Party and the Workers' Party sent a letter asking the government to come back to the Stortingen to explain the decision to license the wolf. Here we are just asking the government to explain whether there is a need for a change in the law in order to comply with the decisions of the Stortinget on stockpiling and harvesting of wolves. Will the Progress Party support the Central Party that the government should come to the Storting and explain how we should achieve the stock target for wolves?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e521	Now I don't know the proposal, so I can't say whether I'm going to support it or not, but I can say so much about the situation around the decision that came yesterday, that there's something the Progress Party is skeptical about. We have a predatory deal that we add up to and want to be followed. When one cannot follow such a clear majority proposal from the Stortinget, it must be the toolbox of the Council of State that is not filled so that he can implement the wish of the Stortinget. Then we say that we have to look at the possibilities we have to give the Council of State the tools he needs to implement the Storting policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e527	I think it was mildly eye-catching that the representative Halleland uses his entire post – with the back cover we have, with the UN report, which shows how busy we are to avoid getting 1.5 degrees of heating, or at worst more than that, and the big consequences it has – only to talk for an oil production, which we know is causing emissions. That is the broad consensus. What is politically dissenting about is what is the responsibility of Norway — to continue the industry in Norway, or to liquidate it. However, I would like to give the representative an opportunity to talk a little bit about climate policy for the Progress Party, because we have also recently heard that the colleague of Halleland in the Energy and Environment Committee wants to eliminate the benefits for electric cars. One of the reasons why we're going to have those benefits is to be able to achieve the Storting goal of all new cars in 2025 being zero-emission cars. My question is: how else will the Progress Party be able to meet the goal of zero-emission cars in 2025, and how else will the Progress Party be able to achieve the Storting's objectives in climate policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e534	Norway is now using more than 10 billion. kr to subsidise the electric car industry. At the same time, if you want to have a realistic policy and stand for a party that wants to end all our incomes, but at the same time increases all our expenses, it will die out over time. What the Progress Party is saying is that at some point they will come up with a new electric car policy. It has been extremely successful, but it comes to a point where it becomes so common to have an electric car that you have to get the same tax regime on that car as on other cars. Then you can discuss whether it should be in 2019, 2021 or 2023, but that's what's behind it. In the case of Norwegian oil and petroleum industry, 2 pst. of total production in Norway. It'll probably hurt, and it'll probably be good for someone's conscience to shut down that industry, but that doesn't mean anything to the world's greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e543	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e548	On the same day as the government's proposals for the state budget were presented, we also received the UN's latest climate report. The content shouldn't surprise anyone, even if it seems like it did. The time is running out if we're going to be able to achieve the goal of not exceeding a temperature increase of 2 degrees. Some have tried to produce the centre party as a climate sink, but since the first climate reports came, the centre party has been committed to minimising the impacts of climate change. We have even been in a government that chose to bet its posts – as the majority in this room forced through the construction of an unprofitable gas power plant. The centre part was at the head of the introduction of green certificates in the red-green government, and the centre part has also been the driver of changes in the passenger car park in Norway. The central party believes that Norway needs to take a clear leading role internationally in the process of transition in order to achieve its climate commitments. The sustainable conversion offers great opportunities for the development of new Norwegian industry, technology development and competences. Therefore, by increasing the risk capital of the Nysnø climate investment fund to 1 billion, we estimate. I'm going to spend 200 million kroner. by investing in climate-friendly ferries and boats, which will continue to stimulate and further develop Norwegian maritime competence, technology and industry. It is also overtime to set up a CO 2 fund for the conversion of industrial transport – a fund that will provide rapid emission reductions and contribute to the roll-out of existing and new technologies. The centre party also increases support for climate research in livestock production in order to include agriculture and take responsibility for climate change. Sustainable use of natural resources has contributed to geographical and social cohesion in our country, but also to preventing or slowing down climate change. The pure Norwegian hydropower is an example of this. Forest is another resource that can contribute to climate solutions, to new industrial ventures and to global green value chains. Trees that grow, absorb and bind carbon. Trees that rot, they release carbon. This is how – it has been said before: Everything that can be made of oil can also be made of wood. This implies enormous opportunities for Norwegian resources. That is why, in our budget, we are strengthening the work on action in forestry. In this respect, the centre party is seriously concerned that Norway now appears to be leaving the EU to manage the management of Norwegian forest resources. The centre lot cannot accept Norway’s ability to determine the amount of forest to be cut in Norway. We are therefore very concerned about what signals the government will give to the European Union before the New Year. Nine out of eleven scenarios will limit Norwegian forestry. Only one will reasonably ensure the basis for exploiting the yield potential we have without accounting for forest emissions. There will be an almost scandal if the government puts us in a situation where uncertainty is created about the possibility of increasing the peak of Norwegian forest, or – even worse – that we are in a situation where we risk having to pay the EU to allow Norwegian nature and Norwegian resources to be used in a sustainable and climate-friendly way. The centre party is also concerned that the government does not take the consequences of climate change into account. In recent years, there has been a growing trend towards extreme weather – whether it be drought, flooding or migration, everything with great potential for damage and heavy expenditure on both private and public expenditure. Both the NVE and the local authority’s organisation, KS, have reported that the government’s arrangements do not allow sufficient preventive action to be taken in this area. Therefore, in line with the recommendations of the NVE, the centre party proposes to increase the allocations for flood and scrapping protection by 200 million. in addition to the Government's proposals. In addition, there is a commitment to flood and tailor-made measures along the county roads. I also have to say that it is surprising and not so little arrogant when the government chooses to ignore the Storting's clear decision to investigate and provide a balancing model for network rental. Instead, mergers of network companies are pointed out as a good solution. I think many in District Norway strongly disagree with this. Local network providers often have both higher efficiency and security on their network than the large network companies have been able to offer. In addition, they provide jobs and competences throughout the country. The Central Party therefore proposes a balancing item of 40 million. until a new model is in place. In our Scientific Committee on Food and the Environment, we gave clear advice: Wild boars should not be allowed to establish themselves in Norwegian fauna. It was therefore gratifying to hear the Council of State of Elvestuen in an interpellation debate earlier this fall saying that he wanted to combat the consumption of wild boars in Norwegian nature. Unfortunately, it is far from word to action, and we have not yet seen proposals for action. The Centre Party has therefore entered funds into its alternative budget for the control of a species which may have serious consequences for health and for Norwegian food. Finally, yesterday's decision not to trap the Wolfflocks at Mangen and Hobøl is in line with the online lease case a demonstration in the greatest arrogance. Of course, the increase in prevention is of no value when the stock target is not taken out.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e574	Would the representative like to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e579	That's what the representative wants. I bring this to the attention of the Central Party's proposal in case No. 2 – and also the proposals made by the Central Party, together with the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e584	The representative Ole André Myhrvold has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e591	Many municipalities and municipalities work well to develop projects that contribute to reducing emissions locally. Projects focus on everything from building climate-friendly public buildings, such as schools and kindergartens, and getting charging stations to projects to reduce food waste and make greener purchases. We are totally dependent on the municipality being in the driver's seat for a positive development in the local environment. The municipality and the county are often exemplary, and the Climate Change Scheme gives them the opportunity to be so. In 2018, the climate rate has supported 252 good, important local actions. My question is whether the Center Party, which usually tends to hit a blow for the municipalities, is comfortable being the party that gives at least money to the Climate Act in next year's budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e598	The central party believes that municipalities have a crucial role to play on the Climate Initiative side, and we also have it within our budget. We believe that prevention should be ensured for municipalities, and that is why we provide 200 million. additional to prevention measures in municipalities, the number of funds available. Municipalities have a very central role, but so far the municipalities themselves have reported that they do not have enough measures to use the funds that have been provided by the Climate Change Scheme. That's the signal we got in the budget hearing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e603	In September of this year, several members of the Swedish Energy and Environment Committee, including the undersigned and the representative Myhrvold, were in Indonesia. We agreed that this was an important initiative and an important field of action. The conservation of rainforests is a good climate action, but it is also a good way to preserve nature values and endangered species. All parties, including the Center Party, thought it was a good move. But the center part now wants to cut 200 million. kr for the preservation of the same rainforests as it was important to preserve in September – why?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e610	The centre party is occupied by the rainforest project and wishes to support it. What we've been skeptical about is the increase the government made, based on the reports that came from the rainforest project in Brazil. We want to support the rainforest project, but we need to be sure that the money is used for what they want, that it is an effective use of them. Then we will join in supporting it in the future, but this year we did not see it opportune to introduce the increase that the government has made, precisely in the light of the national audit reports we have received.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e616	It's almost Christmas, and then we all have some wishes. Some people here have expressed the wish that we discuss palm oil. I think it's nice to meet good, important wishes. My question to the representative Myhrvold is: Why does the centre party fail Norwegian produced biofuels based on Norwegian renewable resources and during the financial debate we had in the Stortingen a few weeks ago, voted against a fee that would throw the palm oil out of Norwegian cars, and instead stimulated the production of Norwegian biofuels?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e623	It's precisely because we don't have any certainty that it will stimulate Norwegian biofuel production. The Norwegian bio industry itself says that they are very skeptical at that kind of fee, because they believe it could weaken them. We want holistic, long-term value chains also for biofuels and support them under any action. The center party will actually try to bring up a national settlement, so that we get on the track. I think there is a cross-political consensus in the Chamber that we want to stimulate the production of Norwegian biofuels in the future, but as it is now, we cannot reach agreed measures that build up in the industry we need.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e630	The representative Myhrvold at least confirms that the Central Party has brought with it the UN report and that the time is running out. I understand the need to try to green-wash politics, but the Youth Party, the Senterung, said in the Nation on 20 November that the Senterpartie “sleep an hour” in terms of climate policy. In the case of biofuels, the centre party of the red-green government, which changed the user fee and made sure that biofuels in Eastfold were not built in the representative’s own home state. That's giving a fossil discount of almost 1 billion. kr will further delay the transition to zero-emission cars. In addition, the Central Party provides a number of CO 2 discounts to the business community that postpone the transition to new technology. What is the context of the Central Party's climate policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e640	The centre part is occupied by the conversion of the green shift. Fortunately, the biofuel plant in Fredrikstad is running again. We're very happy about that. We believe that more measures are needed to start biofuel production in Norway. We need to step up the sales requirement. We can, for example: have a double counting for advanced biofuels. It must be maintained. As far as fuel taxes are concerned, it is such that the government’s tax increase is a fiscal charge that is well on the way. In addition, for the cycling classes within Ring 2 in Oslo, an increase in the fuel charge is possible, but in many parts of this country people actually live around. The centre party is also concerned with preventing increased social and geographical differences. Then this is not the way to go. Then we need differentiated climate action.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e647	The cord shift is over. ‘You say you love your children for something else, but yet you will steal theirs in the future right in front of their eyes.’ These words belong to Greta Thunberg, the Swedish girl who, in the autumn, conducted her own school strike in protest against the world'sism politicians face the climate crisis. Last week, Greta, together with a number of others, took part in the international climate negotiations in Poland. She's right to be angry with politicians who talk in big words, but who don't do enough to solve the climate crisis. Before hundreds of delegates, she made it clear that she has little left over to the majority of today's politicians. She said, ‘You are not mature enough to tell the truth as it is. Even that burden will you pass on to us children." If we had listened to all the Gretas that were here when the climate scientists came up with their first warnings that man was changing the climate on the globe, we would have solved the climate crisis already. We would have stabilised the temperature rise, avoided most of the coral reefs disappear, that millions of people are drifting away from climate change, and that food production in large parts of the world will go down. But we didn't listen. We took the time to discuss whether the warnings were real. Was it really like that that we were changing the climate? Today we see the consequences. This summer it was extremely dry. At least as common in the future as the inhabitants of Skåk and Luster experienced in the autumn. But it's a hope. We still have a time window where emissions can be cut and the worst consequences of climate change are avoided, but then every state budget must be the most ambitious environmental budget of the time. Only then can we cut emissions and take care of nature. That's why the Socialist Left Party is betting on vacuuming society for emissions we can remove. Because as we read on the sales posters in January: everything is going away. One main reason why emissions in Norway are so high is the oil and gas sector. They've increased their emissions by almost 80 pst. since 1990. If we're going to get somewhere, we have to realize that the country of happiness has to be taken over in a new phase. We cannot search for more carbons below the sea surface to be picked up and burned. It's found too much. We have to spend the big money on a business that cuts emissions and takes us into the future. We need to use the expertise of the oil industry in the renewable industries. This is why SV proposes inter alia: in its budget for the construction of a marine wind demonstration park. In addition, we need an obligating plan for CO2 capture and storage. The uncertainty that has arisen must be eliminated once and for all, so that Norway can play an important role internationally. In the debate today, we have already heard the government boast that Norwegian emissions have fallen in recent years, but we all know what this is all about. This is due to a climate policy such as palm oil baths, rainforest destruction and increased emissions elsewhere on the globe. At home, the government deliberately steers towards breaking the Storting's emissions target by 2020. But other countries have shown that it is possible, that it is possible to have a good life, that it is possible to have a good welfare state, and yet have low emissions of greenhouse gases. The country of Greta Thunberg lives in, has made it clear. The Swedish emissions are half of the average northerly emissions. Climate change is not the only threat. Both in Norway and internationally, a major loss of natural diversity occurs. The main reason is land degradation, but the loss of natural diversity threatens our entire life base. Nature cleanses the air we breathe in, the water we drink, and the earth we grow our food in. It gives us clothes, medicines and materials. As a result, SV in the budget has increased support for the preservation of endangered nature. I started with the words of the Swedish girl Greta Thunberg. Finally, I would like to borrow the words of Penelope Lea, environmental agent here in Norway: "I appreciate the people, the people I know and the people I don't know. I appreciate the leaves, I appreciate the trees, and I appreciate the earth and the future." With that, I will deal with the proposal SV is behind, and the proposal we have with the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e684	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e691	Over the years, this government has invested in research and development in the petroleum sector. It has provided a better working environment, better use of infrastructure, better use of investment and better CO2 emissions monthly. It has given a formidable transfer value to the renewable sector, including: to sea wind. In addition, components that have received transfer value within medicine come. The government party sees the value of continuing this work - SV does not do it, as the permissions in the budget this year are deleted from SV's side. Does not see the SV the value of continuing this work? And does the SV want Norway to be a sink in the area, with greater emissions and poorer use of the infrastructure that is established than the countries we like to compare with?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e698	Halleland - no, sorry! Stop it! Stop it! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e703	I've understood it so that comrade Halleland will come later. Thank you for the question. As I mentioned in my article, the petroleum industry is the main reason why Norwegian emissions have increased sharply in the last 30 years, and also a main reason why we are not prepared to achieve our climate goals. The main individual measure for cutting emissions in the petroleum industry has been the CO2 tax. Without it, the emissions from the petroleum industry would be significantly higher than today. That is why we are proposing to increase the CO2 tax in order to further cut emissions in the oil sector. With regard to the money for research, we will in the future spend the great money on research into renewable energy rather than stimulating the oil industry even more.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e712	SV is one of the parties that wants to challenge the economy of the Norwegian welfare state by shutting down the Norwegian oil industry. I hope that comrade Haltbrecken spends some time in the future telling his constituents about what kind of society he adds with SV's policy. The SV must have that they boast much of the government's tax policy, but they believe that there is no link between tax relief and more jobs. Since jobs are very important for all three parties in the former, red-green, government and all of them have increased taxes in their alternative budgets, I expect that there is an increase in taxes that contribute to more jobs. How many jobs does SV think that a 20-billion-billion-dollar tax increase. kr will lead to?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e719	It's quite right, as Comrade Halleland says, that the government's tax policy is not what it needs to do to give more jobs. On the contrary, what is needed is to create greater differences in a society where differences increase. We see the priorities of government, big tax cuts to the richest, while looking at SV's budget, it's those with the least that comes out second. We want to tighten up for the richest in society, so that they contribute more, also in the transformation of society. We know that we need to get away from an oil economy, both when we're going to solve the climate crisis, and when we're going to provide more jobs in this country. Then we have to bet on the renewable industries, which have a future ahead of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e727	The use of palm oil contributes to the deforestation of the rain forest. The representative Mr Haltbrecken and the undersigned were able to see this when we visited Indonesia earlier this year. At the same time, we agree that the share of biofuels in transport should be increased. In fact, it's a long way to go before we achieve the targets for the proportion of Norwegian produced and sustainable biofuels. The centre party is strongly dependent on biofuels, because it provides high climate benefits, and because it can create values and jobs based on renewable resources, such as Norwegian forests. On the other hand, SV and the Centre divide layers when it comes to the use of forests. Where SV proposes protection, the centre party wants active use and management of the renewable resource. In the light of the SV's view on forest protection: how will SV ensure that we have full value chains for the production of advanced biofuels based on Norwegian resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e734	It is quite right that SV wants and has wholeheartedly supported the national objective of protecting 10 pst. of the forest in Norway. The reason for this is that half of the endangered species in this country live in the forest. We also know that the destruction of their habitats is one of the things that threatens them the most. But when we say that we want 10 pst. it also means that a relatively large proportion of forest can be used. 90 pst. is not a small number, and it is clear that stimulating a reasonable biofuel effort, in particular waste from the forest, is important. In this way, we also see it as an important measure to get rid of the harmful palm oil, so that we provide space for the Norwegian biofuel, which has much greater sustainability.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e739	The representative Haltbrecken said in his post that he would vacuum Norway for climate action, and that is a good ambition. But in reality, SV is vacuuming small Norwegian farms for over 11 billion. kr through taxes on wealth. So they're going to increase the tax rate by 20 billion. kr, and it takes from the small enterprises – which is by far the most, 80 pst. Norwegian workers work in an enterprise with fewer than 10 employees – capital and opportunities to contribute to the green transition. There is no vacuum cleaner for measures. In the case of car charges, SV will increase them by 4.8 billion. kr, while the Center Party will cut them by 1 billion. kr. There was a comradely tone between the representatives of Haltbrecken and Halleland, but SV and Haltbrecken's best friend is the Center Party and Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum. How is he going to get this going, when there's such a big crack in the opposition in terms of really vacuuming for those measures, and when it cracks in terms of money?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e746	I was tempted to reply that then I can ask for advice from the representative Kjenseth, who has experience in being in government with the Progress Party. But I believe that there are green forces also in the Center Party. We have criticised the Central Party's fiscal policy in their submitted alternative state budget. To put it that way: they would not have had this impact in a red-green government, which had come to cut Norwegian emissions. Last year, SV submitted a plan for how to achieve the Storting Climate Goal, and one of the ways we were going to do this was to cut emissions in the transport sector. We're past that point in Norway where pollution can be made cheaper. Pollution must become more expensive over the years to come. But then we have to ensure a redistribution that makes people come out well anyway. [[President clubs]] [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e753	Then the time is up, and the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e758	Let me start by thanking the Committee for a good cooperation in getting the port setting that's here. Since no one else has done so, I would also like to thank our new committee secretary, Marit Halleraker. It requires some flexibility and effort – both our own and its own – to meet the Energy and Environment Committee. I'm glad we've now managed to get a good budget position and a good process. I also think we all know ourselves privileged who are allowed to work with the themes we are now discussing. Energy policy, and perhaps especially climate and environmental policy, is one of the most exciting and most important work being done in the United Kingdom. It is about the backstop we have for our climate and energy policies, which, above all, perhaps became very clear in the days when the state budget was presented. At the same time as the IPCC report said something about achieving the 1.5 degree target. I won't go through all the findings of that report. It's good for me to say that marine acidification is going to be so much worse by 2 degrees than by 1.5 degrees, that the difference is whether we want coral reefs or not towards the end of this hundred years – or that the difference will be great for those of our fellow human beings who live in more remote places than us, whether we talk about their crops, about their ability to fish and house resources in the sea, about the sea level that is going to rise, or about the extreme drought that is going to happen to those who are not as privileged as we are. It's a gloomy wallpaper. The state budget in 2018 was also the first time we had seen the reporting of climate laws in the state budget. I like to think that a lot of the debate after the state budget was presented was also characterized by the fact that we have been able to get in place reporting according to climate laws, and that in this way she has started to do the right thing, which is to move the Norwegian climate debate and make it possible to have more objective figures to lead our discussions forward. The technical calculation selection is not yet up and going, but the reporting by climate laws is being strengthened, and more resources are being allocated to it according to the budgetary units that now lie between the Christian People's Party and the government. I think that is good, because we need more objectivity, and we need more progress in the way we pursue climate policy. In the alternative state budget of the Christian People's Party, we have proposed additions for just over 0.5 billion. NOK, and we have proposed a step-by-step follow-up of the green tax shift that we have to go through. Our agreement with a fairly good state budget that was even better, and I'm glad that the green base map's promises have increased, that climate policy promises, which over the last few years have led to good climate action in a large number of municipalities, are also strengthened. In some climate debates we have, the answer is promised, and everyone is wondering what the question was. I am pleased that we have had a great deal of added value in what was in the proposal from the government, and that it has been strengthened further. And I'm glad that we've also managed to strengthen our efforts against marine pollution. There is a cross-political commitment in this hall to strengthen that effort. The government has done a good job, and now we're also getting leaders in the budget saying we want a reinforcement in North Norway, where one today is not covered by the archipelago service or others. The energy mix for the future is much more complex than the one we have today, and on biofuels it means that we need to change the legislation step by step, so that we get out the biofuels that have the highest climate risk. The Christian People's Party is, therefore, too pleased to have had a positive impact on this in the budget negotiations. Differences in net rents are problematic and frames the inhabitants of power stations and districts unnecessarily hard. In our society, access to power is an essential good. When web services are a natural monopoly where customers cannot choose another supplier, it is a public task to ensure equal or equal prices throughout the country. I was disappointed with the answer that the government got out, where they argued that a non-political tool was needed, but that the consolidation was the tool, and I'm glad that we've put in place a verb that allows us to get a better knowledge base and keep up the fight for a more equal price for consumers. Climate challenges are global, and inverbals, we are also taking the view that the Stortinget is asking the government through Norwegian climate finance to ensure that developing countries receive support in the fight against coal power and for renewable sources. We do the same when it comes to starting work on the renewable energy guarantee scheme in developing countries. It's often said that no one can do anything, but everyone has to do something. At least I think you can say it in the climate field – that everyone has to do more. It does this state budget, but we're not in goal, and this has to be the first of several government budgets to become greener than ever before.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e783	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e788	There is a significant gap between the Storting Climate Goal and today’s adopted climate action and instruments. There is a clear need to strengthen climate reconciliation and to press for more action. There is every reason to believe that the Christian People's Party will enter the government in a short time. My question to the representative Storehaug will be: how will the country's population notice a change in climate action because the Christian People's Party has entered today's Right? Progress Party-led government? We've seen a little bit more on the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e795	First of all, I want to say that I disagree. I think the government's budget proposal showed that one government has prioritised more sums that the Storting must have prioritised, that it was inside the government budget this time, and I think that the Christian People's Party should be able to strengthen it even more when we go into government. I have ambitions that both the nation's population and the rest of the world will notice that the Christian People's Party is going into this government, both when we say that the climate in the south is going to be a priority for a new government, and that one has wanted to improve climate reporting, so that we get better projections and move the climate debate in the right direction. So I also think that we need to have a debate about the phase in which Norwegian oil industry is involved, and in this way I have noticed the representative Haukeland Liadal, who on the one hand says that we need to pursue more climate policy, and that it must apply in all fields, but as soon as the Christian People's Party raises the debate on Norwegian oil industry, she says it is serious, and that it is threatening the fast-track industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e804	I thank you for your answer. In order to move towards a zero-emission society, the 2030 targets need to be more concrete in each sector with a focus on transport, construction, agriculture and waste, which is not part of the EU quota system. We have to go ahead, and we have to show that it is possible to cut significantly in own emissions through concrete measures at home. My follow-up question to the Christian People's Party will be: How much does the Christian People's Party think that it is possible that we can cut?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e814	There are a lot of uncertain moments to decide when to respond to it, and I also believe that the debates that are currently taking place, in conjunction with the EU, show that. A lot of the reason why I'm happy that we now have a reporting according to climate laws is that it ensures that one has an objectivity that provides a better basis for seeing where Norway is actually going, with the sum of the policies that we are pursuing. It will be strengthened by the budgetary units. Now we are working on putting in place a technical calculation selection that will also allow for more objectivity in how we operate climate policy. I mean that the Christian People's Party, in conjunction with the Workers' Party, which also supports the proposal for a climate law, has shown that we want, and we will follow that up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e823	Last year, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party joined forces in the fight for similar online rentals in the country. Together, we received a majority in favour of a proposal that required the government to investigate and present a proposal to ensure the smoothing of network rentals, regardless of where you live or operate. The answer the government gave us in this state budget was discouraging. The decision of the magistrate was not at all followed up. It was only found that it had been investigated in the past, and that mergers of the transmission system companies were the best method of blurring network rentals. In this budgetary position, the Christian People's Party stands with just the government parties and demands a new investigation. Does the Christian People’s Party agree that the government has failed in its submission to the Great Government? And how does the Christian People's Party think they're going to get an impact on the demand for similar network rentals in company with parties that have been fighting it for many years?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e830	I decided in my post that I was disappointed with the government's follow-up to that decision, which both the Central Party and the Christian People's Party were eager to get in place. What I'm very pleased with is that a specific mention is that one should also look at the stamping principle and at how one can smooth out those parts of the web lease that cannot be affected, such as that our country looks different, that the topography is different, and that there is historical inequality that makes one today have different web leases in different parts of the country. I think that what's important to progress in this debate is that one also makes sure that one has a better factual basis on which option we're actually discussing, and which means that I hope we can get a system change in place, in contrast to the change that a red-green time got in place, which was actually a patchwork on the government budget that I don't think delivered well enough to smooth out these differences.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e837	As we have all had, there have been some discussions in the Christian People's Party this fall, but one thing everyone seems to agree on, and that is that climate is most important. That is why, as I challenged the representative, Kjeseth, I will also challenge the representative, Tore Storehaug. What are the three specific climate issues that the Christian People's Party wants to see through in the government negotiations with the Progress Party, the Right and the Left?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e842	I think the first thing is going to be that we need a raise for the rest of the world when it comes to the fight against coal. When other countries are also planning to build coal-fired power plants to stand and pump out CO 2 in the future, we are forced to come up with a policy from the Norwegian side that shows that this is a development we are not satisfied with. Then I can also mention that we want to see better climate reporting, and that reporting can also move towards giving us projections, which will also give us the opportunity to look at how we are going to reach the sectoral pathways that we need to reach in order to be able to pursue a good climate policy in the non-quota sector. I think we need to take the debate on Norwegian oil policy and how we can turn it in a more restrictive direction, whether it is about extra vulnerable areas or about how we should have a more provincial neutral tax regime. And it has to be about our tax ego -- sorry, President, it didn't mean to use English -- because I think we also need a debate on how to speed up the green tax shift. Then the representative got four for three!
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e858	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e863	I think I'll start by admitting that in this debate, a lonely green representative has a lot on his mind. And then I'm a little excited about the continuation -- how this is going to start and end. When others pointed to the back cover we had, the UN Climate Report, which shows how serious we are, which shows the difference of 1.5 degrees and 2 degrees of global warming, and what is needed to avoid 1.5 degrees of heating, it is – and this I say not to boast, I say it because I believe it is very serious – just the Green Party that shows in its state budget, through a carbon budget, how we can achieve the goal of halving our emissions by 2030. The government, we know, has created a projection that adds up to just one third of the cuts that are needed. When we ask, the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment answers that the government has plans for new measures to target us – but it is not budgeted for. That's why, dear hall, people have demonstrated outside the Storting for many weeks now. It is not because you have misunderstood what the government has presented in the budget. We don't think it's the government's goal to cut just 13 pst. But the government doesn't answer how to get to the goal. Nor have they budgeted for a policy that does. That's why we're impatient. The only thing we know is that Prime Minister Erna Solberg has already shown that she does not take climate objectives seriously. The government is breaking the 2020 target with a shoulder move. They lack control in climate policy. It shouldn't have accepted this biging. Norwegian policy is in a spat. From the recent climate summit in Poland, where the Minister for Climate and Environment worked to put in place the legislation needed to comply with the Paris Agreement, the Minister for Climate and Environment reiterated the importance of avoiding 1.5 degrees of heating. But at home, we don't have the policy that's needed, either in this room or in the government, to prevent 1.5 degrees of heating. The government later as if there is no connection between oil policy and climate policy, but every time Prime Minister Erna Solberg cheers for a new oil discovery, she cheers for more floods and extreme weather. The climate risk committee, which recently presented its report to the government, confirms what the Greens have said for a long time: the more ambitious global climate policy becomes, the less Norwegian oil will be worth. This also applies to the gas. This means risk to Norway. As if that were not enough, in November the European Commission presented proposals for a new climate strategy – while in this room we have been largely concerned with the impact of the Christian People's Party on the budgetary negotiations. The climate strategy follows up the Paris Agreement and adds to a dramatic fall of 70 pst. in energy imports into the EU in the years to come. Norwegian oil and gas exports will be affected and much harder than the International Energy Agency has taken into account. Note that, President – because I have also noticed how the government parties have great confidence in what the International Energy Agency explains. Investing in oil and gas exploration is now investing in the failure of world climate policy. Nevertheless, the government subsidizes oil companies by billions – we can count 20 billion. kr together, with the read-back scheme, exemptions, various depreciation rules, good interest schemes – because they want to look for more. The Greens' alternative state budget shows which way we have to go. The Greens are in favour of a gradual and managed closure of the oil industry. We know that we cannot continue to invest and search for more oil and gas when we have already found more than we can burn. A guided winding-up, where we stop investing in new projects, will be good for the environment and the climate. This will be good for employees in the oil industry and for the Norwegian economy – much better than a crash landing because climate policy functions globally. The Greens spend a total of 20 billion on the environment. kr on climate in its alternative state budget: We're starting the big transfers that are needed to clean up the biggest emissions in the industry, by decomposing 3 billion. kr to full scale carbon capture and storage in a fund, which of course must grow. We also set up a fund to support the electrification of commercial transport. We strongly strengthen Enova, to 1000 new electric car charging stations, for electrification of coastal traffic. We also put in a folk pool that individuals can apply for in order to get cut in their everyday lives. I could still have a long time. The Christian People's Party is about to enter into government negotiations. The party has announced that the climate is their main negotiating case. I expect them to follow up with concrete measures – even when they get into port with the government platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e904	Then it's ready for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e909	In this budget, the government is increasing the allocation for geological mapping of the continental shelf by up to 50 million. kr. This is an increase related to knowledge acquisition in the Barents Sea now, with the collection of 3D seismics across a large cross-border structure on the divider line against Russia, which will provide us with detailed knowledge of resource potential on the Norwegian side of the divider line. It is known that seismics have been collected on the Russian side, and my question to the representative Bastholm is why not the Green Party believes that Norway should also increase its knowledge of this important area into the dividing line against Russia. We should have knowledge of what and what kind of resources we have – or is it important for the Greens that it is precisely Russia that owns the resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e914	If the matter of seismic shooting in the Barents Sea had only been about acquiring knowledge, I and the representative from the Right would probably be able to do it with a Christmas white. First, I want to say that I have noticed the new explanation of this government's commitment to shooting seismics in the Barents Sea to increase knowledge, but what we all know is that we also want that knowledge to be able to continue oil and gas extraction, and launch search areas in this area, which are otherwise very vulnerable. It's a very vulnerable area for species diversity in the sea, which we know too little about, and it's an extraction that we know we don't need, because we've already found much more oil and gas than we can take up. That's the one. The second is that when Europe wants Norwegian gas right now, that doesn't mean they want it in 2020, 2030, 2040, like the investments we make today, it's like one here adds up to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e919	The fact that the MDG will scrape Norway’s largest and most important industry has become quite clear in the post that was now held. But in addition to claiming that it is good for the employees in the industry, it must appear very strange, especially for the 200,000 people employed in this industry, and must be a strange Christmas press from the Environment Party. This is Norway’s main industry, but MDG will nevertheless spend the money it brings to the state budget in its own alternative state budget. Why has the MDG proposed to use oil money in its state budget, when they will actually wind up the same industry from which they receive their income?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e925	The Green Party uses significantly less oil money than the government does. I want to get back to this repeating number, with 200,000. It is very important that Stortinget realizes that there are not 200,000 people working on oil platforms. It's about 50,000, and then there's a lot of people working in related industries. Those people could have been commissioned by other than the oil sector, if we had only been committed to an offensive green industrial policy. And that's what you should do, for example. by spending much more money on incentive schemes in various ways for the electrification of the coast, to which the yards, for example, could provide. But that doesn't mean that the oil industry isn't important to us, it doesn't mean that those revenues haven't been important to Norway through history, but it's a horizon ahead of us, which is very clear. First of all, it says that the energy market in the world is changing. This means risk to Norway as an energy country and energy export country. Secondly, we have climate change, which we have to take over. And the Green Party believes that Norway has to take the responsibility we have, and take responsibility for emissions that the fact that we take up oil and gas leads to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e932	I share the concerns of Mr Bastholm from the Greens/Greens/EFA on climate change. However, in the Political Quarter on 16 November, the representative Bastholm claimed that the government’s tax increases were only fiscal. Her own batch will increase environmental taxes by 45 billion. kr. My question is: how does the representative Bastholm feel about this, taking account of social and geographical cohesion? Or is it not a goal for the Greens that climate policy should take such into account?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e937	It is nice to talk about taxes and taxes also in the budget debate of the Committee on Energy and the Environment. I've already been in such a debate, since I'm also in the finance committee, but let's also take it here. The debate in the Political Quarter, to which I believe the representative refers, was about the fare. There the government itself says directly in the government budget that this is considered a fiscal charge, i.e. a government income, and the climate impact of it is not known. I think it is extremely problematic, I think that environmental taxes should be used for what they are going to do, namely change behaviour, and then we should not plan to get income from that tax. On the contrary, it must be planned to reduce revenue. – So it was for the debate that the representative raised. The Green Party's fiscal policy is greener, but it will not necessarily lead to more taxes for the individual family, for each member. We've calculated it, we see that it's about $400 per family per year if it's an average family with average consumption of car travel and air travel, and with an average income.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e944	The Greens have a great deal of inspiration from the Greens in Germany, where they have had an ‘Energiewende’. They add up to large-scale conversion, winning a lot on renewable energy, but also a lot of sun. The Green Party must take too many radical measures and challenge consumers, citizens, on radical changes – to eat much less meat, for example. – and they will charge heavily and collect a lot of taxes. But I am a little surprised that the Greens are no longer playing with consumers in terms of more solar cells on the roof, for example. – it’s not a radical change, really – and instead it’s talking about people’s funding funds. It's a little hard to understand -- what is it? Because we're spending money on Enova, we're paying out support for those who put solar cells on the roof, for example, so the money goes out. Why these radical proposals that stand in the way of a more dynamic transformation?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e949	As far as the sun is concerned, the Green Party has a number of measures to help both make it easier for people to take the cost of installing solar panels and to help the market get up more. Because that's in the installation curve really is now, so that's where we suggest, among other things. VAT exemptions, and in our tax policy we also have measures there. It was a little unclear to me why the representative referred to Germany here, except that they do a lot on the sun, because Norway has every opportunity to do these things already. The Germans are no more pleased with taxes or with climate policy than with the Nordics. On the contrary, in the latest survey, climate change is now the most worrying concern of all. Then we have a responsibility as politicians to deliver the policy needed to do the actions in everyday life that people want to do. I think that as politicians we often choose to exaggerate the concern of individuals to actually notice that climate policy is working.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e956	Then the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e961	The climate negotiations were recently concluded, and the Council of State came home and said that he was satisfied that the Paris agreement was finally complete, and that the world as a whole now has the opportunity to cut the emissions enough to reach the 1.5-degree target. The possibilities are there, but is that probably the will of the sitting government? The UN report this fall shows that we have 12 years to implement drastic measures to ensure that the global temperature does not rise by more than 1.5 degrees. However, the State budget does not respond to the enormous need for a change in the pace of climate policy. The government is most concerned with new technologies as a solution, as well as facilitating increased oil exploration in the north and continued growth. After a hot summer where everyone agreed that the long drought was a consequence of climate change, rapid climate adaptation is needed in all sectors. Prevention is much cheaper than paying for the consequences when they come, but here the government is not paying enough. Municipalities do not have the means to operate flood management, slip and flood prevention, and agriculture is poorly equipped to cope with a varying climate of drought and rainfall. With government policy, it is those who can afford to buy past taxes and get subsidies for new expensive electric cars. At the same time, the government is risking jobs in industry and relying on the unsafe resource oil instead of ensuring climate-friendly changes. The profits of the oil industry are taken out, privatised, while the losses are socialised. The peaks are getting richer, while those affected by the economic cycle are those who have given their working life to build our welfare state. I think the uprising from the yellow vests in France clearly shows why it doesn't hold up with a policy that's just green. It must also be red and fair. People have reason to be pissed at a president who first cuts the property tax, and then increases the fuel taxes to pay for the taxes that the richest have received. The lesson from France is to send the bill for the green shift to those who are already struggling the most – yes, then you can get burning tires back. It also shows the problem of excessive belief that environmental taxes are the solution. The fees are unfair and are harder for them with at least money and get alternatives to the private car. We need an environmental policy that works. Then we also have to look at how we cut, not just increase the fees. We also have to take the costs together. Those who have created large values for the community on a Norwegian base shall not take the bill in the form of unemployment and insecurity. We must therefore ensure a fair and systematic conversion of the oil industry. In our budget, we get emissions cut through a series of measures, through more money for investment, operation and maintenance of rail and public transport, by eliminating exploration subsidies for oil companies, by cutting the development of large polluting motorways, through an increased CO 2 tax, by reversing the tax rate on air travel and, rather, by reducing the prices of train tickets in our country – and also by removing the VAT on repairs, so that it is easier to take care of what you have, rather than having to buy new things. In addition, we ensure natural diversity, forests and endangered species. We want to clean up more in marine litter and restore more ants. And not least, Norway needs a new, green, industrial revolution. We have huge renewable resources in the sea, wind, soil, forest and footfalls, and together with highly skilled labour, this is the basis for value creation in our country for the future. This is where we need strong government efforts, not in the form of unsocial environmental taxes or increased greenhouse gas emissions, but on the contrary through a commitment to building new renewable industries based on our eternal renewable resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e981	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e986	To the representative of Moxnes, it's interesting to discuss revolution with Red, at least the Green. But I think it's a little green, the revolution he's sketching, and I'm being provoked when the representative pulls in France. In Norway we have had an electric car policy for 15 years. It's not a fee increase, because there are zero charges on electric cars. That's what's going on, and that's pretty fair. This means that every team of the population has the opportunity to buy an electric car today, even a new car. It has never been so cheap to own and use a car in Norway as today, and the revenue from a car to a state register has fallen by 40 billion. kr in the last few years. So it's not a fee increase we're talking about. It's a solid fee bill. I recommend the representative from Red to take a trip to Raufoss, where there is a green industrial revolution going on. They deliver car parts to the whole world every day, and the challenge to Red is not to deal with the world and have a market. How is the green revolution of Red?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e991	First of all, there's a lot of good happening at Raufoss. Red knows that very well. We have a lot of people working in the industry there who know very well what's going on, and that's important for the green shift. In our budget, we do a lot to stimulate new industries that are renewable and that are also environmentally friendly. We are strengthening the environmental technology system, we are in favour of a large-scale upgrading of hydropower plants, we are focusing on climate action in the industry, we are in favour of a demonstration park for liquid sea winds, we are increasing regional development funds, and we are maintaining and racially securing highways – to mention something. First of all, however, it must be a fair policy, which does not go unsocially. It's the lesson from France that if you don't have a green and red policy, you get a boomerang where most people rise up against environmental policy, and that's not what we deserve. That is why we are in favour of a red and green policy in the context.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e998	To the representative of Moxnes, it is a fairly fair policy when Norway is exempt from the electricity tax on the industry that produces a lot of the goods and where some of the members of Red’s staff are working properly — yes. But it is also a contribution to keeping that industry in Norway. We have to be even better at building that kind of industry. All the measures proposed here by the representative, Mr Moxnes, are within the government's budget. It's nothing new. The challenge for Red is to export goods, to deal with an EEA agreement that gives access to an internal market – that is what we are going to do. It's a protectionism: where are we going to sell all the goods that we want to produce, with cheaper electricity charges for the industry in Norway, subsidised by the community? How are we going to get market outlets and create the green revolution that we really agree on here?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1004	Norway exports oil, gas, fish and some metals that are essential inputs in production, including: in the EU, on which they are totally dependent. If we sign the EEA agreement, we'll get rid of the remote control from Brussels. The Stortinget can then decide the laws of the country and not be a post office for decisions taken in Brussels. I am absolutely sure that consumers in the EU will continue to want Norwegian gas, and that EU industry will need the aluminium produced in Norway. The problem is that the Left, along with other parties, weakens the conditions for industry by supporting ACER, which gives the EU greater control over Norwegian energy policy. It is completely backwards when the objective is to strengthen this industry for the future. It shall then be governed by Norwegian politicians, not controlled to a greater extent by Brussels.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1009	The Green Party and the Red Party are the two smallest parties on the Stortinget, and we are often put in the same booth by other parties. Sometimes it just becomes very, very clear to me – and I hope it is clear to others as well – that we are not the same party. So far in the debate it has been clear on several points. I thought I would deal with it with green charges. Red has a strong social commitment, and climate change is the most unsocial world facing. The biggest solidarity project we have globally is to be able to prevent so severe climate change that the scenario that the World Bank is now sketching becomes reality, which means that 143 million climate refugees will have to move around the world in 2050, and hence increase sharply. That's our biggest challenge. Then I think it is sad that Red pushes the poor in front of him in any debate about climate action that actually works. What measures has Red taken to target us?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1016	Red has many measures in its budget that we are in favour of. We cut, among other things. construction of large polluting motorways. We're increasing the CO 2 tax. We're going to reverse the fee bill on air travel. We'll cut the price of train tickets. We're removing the VAT on all repairs. We want to stop the exploration fusion system for the oil industry. But we also see that if environmental policy is not perceived – and is – really fair, if the bill is sent to those who have the least in society, if not those who have the most, it is required to contribute the most, we risk losing the legitimacy of environmental policy, and people rebelling against social tax increases. We must have a policy that is not only green but also red and fair, and there is probably a big difference in practice, I believe, in the policy of the Red Party and the Green Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1026	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1031	Global warming is the biggest problem facing the world. The latest report from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change shows that climate change will be dramatic. It also shows how different it is if we can stay below 1.5 degrees, or if we go up to 2 degrees or more. If we're going to keep a recognizable world, as we know it today, we need a much bigger and faster conversion than we might ever have had before. The Polish Climate Summit gave us a direction with a common set of rules on how 196 countries will implement the Paris Agreement. The world is an important step closer to the goal of limiting global warming to 1.5 degrees. But the climate problem can only be solved through global cooperation, and that is now, after the agreement in Katowice, the real work starts. That's why we have to cut our greenhouse gas emissions by 40 pst. by 2030, in cooperation with the EU. We also have this consensus in place, and both the EU and we are going to deliver new targets to the UN in 2020. Norway should be a driver of international climate change work, and we should cut our emissions in Norway. The government is pursuing a climate policy that makes Norway comply with its climate obligations while at the same time creating new jobs. The State budget for 2019 contains a number of initiatives that will reduce emissions and stimulate green migration. Good climate policy is good business policy. Technological development and its implementation are an important part of the response to the climate problem. The government is therefore increasing the transfer to Enova by 344 million. kr. I am pleased that the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party strengthens the investment by an additional 100 million. kr. The increase should be directed primarily towards emissions reductions in the transport sector, where we clearly see that it is possible to increase the rate of introduction of zero and low-emission technologies. Transport is one of the major sources of greenhouse gas emissions. We have to facilitate a conversion to fossil-free and zero emissions within all modes of transport, and we're on the right track, by that 30 pst. of new car sales this year are electric cars, and 71 elf ferries are about to be put into service in Norway by 2021. We are also strengthening the commitment to green shipping in the budget. There are several people who have talked about the need for a CO 2 fund. We need a stronger effort in terms of heavy transport, and the government is in conversation with the NHO about a CO 2 fund. Public transport is strengthened in the budget. The appropriations for railway purposes are proposed to increase by nearly 3 billion. kr. In addition, the government is proposing a doubling of the expenditure on state sub-financing of large collective projects in the four largest cities. Increased protection of the rainforest is essential if we are to be able to limit global warming. We propose to increase the funding for the Norwegian Climate and Forest Initiative by 200 million. kr next year, so that the total effort for the rainforest is SEK 3.2 billion. kr. Taking care of nature can be 30 pst. of the solution to keep us below 1.5 degrees to 2030, but biodiversity is also at the heart of our whole life base – it is also about stopping a catastrophic loss of nature in the world. That means we have to work internationally, but we also have to work in Norway to take responsibility here as well. The government therefore proposes to strengthen both care and organisation in protected areas as well as the fight against alien species. The forest protection level is maintained at an historically high level of 444 million. kr, in addition to a commitment authorisation to increase the total sum to 795 million. kr in 2019. This means that the work on forest protection has never been a priority higher than it will be in 2019. Finally, predatory management is reinforced by 15 million. kr. The funds shall go to the field activities of the State Nature Conservation Agency and to preventive measures to reduce predatory damage.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1058	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1063	As Minister for Climate and Environment Vidar Helgesen presented the Climate Communication, the representative of Elvesuen stated that – contrary to the views of the government at that time on taking at least two thirds of the emissions at home – it should be fully possible to take all the emission cuts at home. That, I think, was wisely said by the representative of Elvestuen. I would like to hear what the Council of State Elvesuen thinks has changed, in addition to the fact that the Left has joined the government, which means that it is now satisfactory to take the cuts also in the non-quota sector together with the EU, but without specifying our own targets. As a follow-up to that, I would like to know: When you say we're going to do the best we can at home, how will the Storting measure if you've done the most? There's a number that's a little bit difficult to catch, so I'd like to hear what the Council of State Elvesu thinks about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1070	There's a lot going to happen, and it's going to happen parallel next year. Finally, we have reached an agreement with the EU. Thus, the framework is in place. It must be adopted. Then, as a follow-up to the Paris Agreement, both we and the EU will also carry out an assessment of their own objectives by 2030. We're going to deliver them in 2020. Once we have those objectives and objectives clear, we have to put forward a plan for how to achieve them. It's on the Jeleya platform. It also says that it must be sectoral plans. Of course, we also have to plan from this discussion – what is the goal? I still believe that no country in the world does more in the transport sector than Norway. We're way ahead. We have a lot of targets in that field – 50 pst., also more specific. We should continue to have the goal of being able to take the most, and then the whole commitment, in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1075	There is, of course, a nuance difference between ‘the whole’ and ‘the most possible’, but we have to keep an eye on this with great interest, and the Council of State is probably given the word afterwards. In addition, I just want to say that we recognise – I have already said that the Council of State did a good job in Katowice – and very much appreciate many of the long-term measures we have in Norway, both the forest support and the measures for transport, which have been in place for many years, and which the government has inherited from previous governments. That's very good. But what very concrete thing has the Left introduced to the government in this field in the last year? Every time we ask, we get a list of good actions that were well known long before the Left came into the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1084	First of all, and this is a discussion that the Workers' Party has previously mentioned that they want to go away from, we're just going to continue the electric car benefits throughout this entire accumulation period. Last month it was 42 pst. sales. In addition, we have a strengthening of green shipping, it is also in this budget, and we are doing an action plan. We are also engaged in a hydrogen strategy, and it is an increase in the implementation and support related to hydrogen. I also want to include the international work. If we're going to reach the 1.5 degree point, we're going to have to phase out the use of coal. The doubling of renewable energy internationally is also an important part. If we're going to achieve the goal, we're going to have to take care of nature. The increase in rainforest activity is important in this budget, but there is also continued efforts to conserve nature in Norway. It is a budget that has been increased every year since 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1091	A very broad majority on the Storting has decided that we should have a stock of four to six wolf coals. Today we are very far above it. The predators have done a conscientious job of evaluating the extraction of wolves based on the figures from the Rovdata and on the Rovvilts Ordinance. When the government yesterday threw a wreck on the recommendation that the robbers made, that means that we have no chance of getting down to the goal that the Storting has decided. The government has even stopped talking about stock targets, really. It might not be true when we're lying as high above as what we're doing today. Nevertheless, the broad decision of the Storting is firm. It's only been two years since it was caught. What is the government's strategy to get down to the stock target of between four and six young people set by the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1097	We have active predatory game management in Norway, also in the case of wolves. The three decisions that came yesterday were the result of an appeal procedure and an assessment of the legal basis of the decisions taken by the robbers. We believe that in plainås they can be justified by the Nature Diversity Act § 18c, on significant social conditions, but that the same reason cannot be used in Hobøl and Manken. What's far beyond this is an assessment, but the latest figures from Rovdata show that what we know so far this year is that there are four puppy coals documented in Heal Norse Revir. There's one in a border revir, and probably there's also a helnorphic revir and two border revir. With what we know so far, we have six and a half young people in Norway. There may be more, but I am not sure if the representative wants us to find more or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1104	The Council of State now reasonably refers to one of the four reports to come from the Hedmark High School to the Rovdata on the counting of wolves. The most important thing that is said in the interim report on October to December, which does not include any of the rest of the winter, is that we are probably going to have a massive increase in addition to what is currently registered. Governments were subject to Section 18 of the Nature Diversity Act. There are two requirements in the Nature Diversity Act. It's Section 18a, which says it shouldn't be an obstacle to the survival of the population, and it's definitely not when we're above the target. The second is § 18c, which was thoroughly reviewed by Stortinget a year and a half ago. § 18c does not in any way prevent the possibility of taking out all three organs in the wolf zone if one so wishes. I see that the Council of State's government colleague from the Progress Party says that there is a need for a change in the law to get down to the stock target and get out what is necessary. Does the Council of State consider it necessary to change the law to do so, or does he also see that Section 18(c) is covering, and that this is only rhetoric on the part of the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1111	I'm running our looting game management out of the two looting game comparisons. It is the majority decision on the wolf and the decision of 2017. Otherwise, it's the Nature Diversity Act and the Berne Convention. The Nature Diversity Act must be within the Berne Convention. It is also the basis of the Jeløia platform, and I regard this as a good common framework for the policy to be implemented. I would also like to point out, as to whether a person can avail himself of a legal assessment under Section 18(c), that our assessment is that there is only a situation for Slakas that makes it possible to use essential social reasons and Section 18(c), according to the clarification given by Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1116	I may be the only one in this debate who will congratulate the Council of State Elvesuen on at least two thirds of yesterday's decision, but that is not what my question to the Council of State is about today. When a few years ago, the law on natural diversity was passed, it was estimated that approximately 400 species in Norwegian nature could be involved in the status of so-called priority species. When The Storting in 2016 dealt with Report. St. 14 for 2015–2016, Nature of Life, wrote the Energy and Environment Committee: ‘The Committee considers that the level of ambition of priority species and selected habitat types should be as set out in the drafting of the Nature Diversity Act.’ Today, however, we can read that the Environment Directorate has recently proposed that only two new species be given priority species status. What's happened? Has the threat to nature been reduced, or is the government leading the trade unions, where it is more concerned with saving money in the short term than taking care of nature?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1128	This is a report from the Environment Directorate, and its professional content is the Environment Directorate behind it. Now we've got it, and we're going to make an assessment of the content and what action we're going to take. It is important to look at the whole instrument. Priority species are one instrument. There may be action plans and new areas of protection. You have to look at the whole sum of the tools we have when we're going to follow up the report. However, the content is the responsibility of the Environment Directorate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1133	I want to start by saying that I think the Minister for Climate and Environment is often very good at sketching and showing us both politicians and the people the seriousness we're facing. I've heard the Council of State put this forward several times in a way that I think engages, and so it's going to have to be said very often in order for us to remember the seriousness. When the Green Party is impatient, the policy is what is actually being delivered from the government. I've mentioned the gap several times between the goals we've said we're going to achieve, and the measures that the government shows you have. I also refer to that when we ask, we just get the answer that there is more policy. My question is, what really is that? The Climate Act is very clear that the Stortinge will know how the budget presented each year shows us how to target, and what measures to target. There shall also be sectoral emission paths showing how, for example: new motorways affect climate policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1140	Climate reporting under the Climate Act is in the budget this year, and this is the first year we have. There's no doubt that this is something that needs to develop over time to get better than this year, and no one is going to underestimate it. We will also agree with the European Union. We have to remember that there are only three countries that have a commitment of 40 pst. reduction up to 2030. It's Sweden, Luxembourg and now Norway, so it's a high level of ambition. We will also have emission levels that we will have to follow in the light of EU legislation. Once we have these targets in place, we need to put forward a plan on how to achieve the targets from the Jeleia platform. There shall be sectoral plans within the non-quota sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1145	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1150	Norway’s major challenge for many decades to come is to keep its balance in the rise from oil industry to new industries. It's about moving the scale from one foot only when we know where the next step is. If we do it too early or too late, we lose the balance, a balance that has been guaranteed and for many years to come to ensure people's well-being and prosperity. We have a safe place to stand today. Through the oil and gas industries, Norway has built a safer future for all of us. It's something to be proud of. Our capable women and men in the oil industry have sacrificed a lot, and they have invested hard. At the same time, this industry still has a lot to do. The world needs energy, and Norway as such would have been thrown into collapse, we would have stopped tomorrow. Some people think we need to shut down oil and gas production quickly. I fundamentally disagree with that. Good employment and safety are prerequisites for tackling the challenges facing Norway; it is not an obstacle. If the oil and gas industries are actively reduced too quickly, we will remove our prerequisites for building something new. We see that every day in the industry in the West. The debate on Norwegian climate policy should therefore not be snuffed in to a debate on the end date of the oil industry. The debate needs to be more about the next step and where we are going, and there are some points that point out well to bet on. Let me point to such an opportunity: sea wind. The Paris Agreement and the need for stable renewable energy resources have increased the need for sea winds. Installations must therefore be done by land and further to the sea. It means deeper waters and the need for liquid sea winds. It also means that the world needs an industry that can have. In other words, there is a great opportunity for Norwegian business. We as elected representatives can be involved in building these industries, putting politics behind it. These include: opening up a domestic market of sea wind farms, ensuring that Enova can and will bet on sea wind, and making demands through our ownership. In fact, we also have to lighten our foot from where we stand today. I fully agree with the various environmental organisations there. If the world doesn't go away from fossil fuels, we won't have a safe future for the next generations either. Climate change will push us out of balance with more extreme weather. Norway will also lose if we do not position ourselves in new industries. But that's exactly why my main point today is that we have to keep focus on where we're going, not that an industry should be shut down. The Labour Party will be involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1167	This government has ambitions – ambitions to deliver on green solutions that will benefit us and our descendants. Green shifts mean both challenges and opportunities for business. We see that Norway, based on the technological developments based on our maritime and petroleum competence, can also contribute internationally to reducing climate change. In several areas, Norway has good intentions to take a leading role, and here green shipping will be an important contribution to reducing emissions. One does not really have to go further than to the ship's app, which shows all the world's ship's movements, in order to understand what technology progress before green shipping will mean in order to reduce the amount of CO2 emissions. With this government, we set up schemes to underpin these technological developments. When no Norway is at the forefront of the world with nearly 70 ferries under production and in operation with renewable propulsion systems driven by our leading engineers and measures set in motion by the government, it is clear that it will both give us priority and help other countries to participate in the technology revolution we have here. For example, in the Sunnhordlands environment, at Wärtsilä, where together with Teekay, the world's largest supplier of shuttle tankers, Wärtsilä has developed a ship concept that expects to reduce the annual emissions of CO2 by more than 40 pst. compared to conventional bending loaders. And when Norled, LMG Marin, Hyon and Selfa Arctic start a technology development project to develop zero emissions from speedboats, it's about leading Norwegian maritime competence and technology to give us zero emissions from speedboats in line with Norwegian ferries. The government has seen in this year's budget also funds for international profiling of the economy that provides green solutions and which have opportunities in international markets. The initiative shall contribute to the promotion of good entrepreneurs, more high-growth enterprises and more innovative business environments, while contributing to the sustainable development and transition to the low-emission society. We have also seen the means to follow up the Green Maritime Programme and the means of operation of the Maritime Directorate. Green Maritime Programme is a public-private cooperation that will become an important precursor for further work, together with the Maritime Directorate, which must be in the forefront of legislation in order to meet the new solutions the industries come up with. I record at the same time that the Labour Party, the Centre Party, SV and the Environmental Party Dei Green believe that we need to increase the bet in this area, without having seen a single penny for it. The efforts that this government has made in this area, and the response that industry is giving in terms of new technology and progress, show how we build on our merits, build jobs and grow up under innovation and development as a contribution to the green shift. It is a fact that with this government we have a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions in Norway, although emissions have increased globally. It happens regardless of whether we maintain our standard of living, that we have had a population growth, and that we have got 65,000 more jobs, three quarters within the private sector. It tells us that we have not only ambitions, but also the ability and the willingness to do what we have seen. Right-wing project is building a sustainable welfare society, getting more people into work and including everyone in society, while meeting the climate goals that we have seen in an internationally committed community.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1182	I already suspect that the debate is becoming like a budget debate in general: whether the budget is good or bad, the criticisms of the opposition tend to be reaped. It's okay enough, I realize that that's how the political everyday life works, but I can't help noticing that it's a little bit hollow. It's a criticism that goes on autopilot, and where the answer is always to give a symbolic sum more money than the government. But the fact is, we're solving the big challenges with this budget. We're involved in solving the global threat, we're taking it seriously. I was one of those lucky enough to be allowed to attend the climate summit in Katowice, Poland last week. And I thought it was a bit of a strange choice for a climate summit, because in Poland most of it is coal – dirty, climate hostile, environmentally destructive coal, and the smog is like a fog over the cities. I want to replace this hill with, among other things. clean Norwegian environmentally friendly gas, to the delight of both Poland, Norway and the climate, but some of the parties in this room are opposed. Why it is climate friendly if the Poles extract their own gas that replaces the coal, while it is climate hostile if we sell our gas that replaces the same coal, is a mystery to me. But I expect that we will get an explanation during the debate today. We also have a paris agreement, which this government follows up. Emissions have not been lower since 1995, and this is with the Progress Party in government even. Who would have thought that? We cut more with the Advance Party in government than we did with the climate parties in the previous government. Emissions are falling, but criticism of being a climate sink – a criticism that goes on autopilot. Many believe that we can save the climate by having inefficient measures at home, like actions that play on guilt: to be ashamed of the flight to the South, to tell people how climate-opposing the steak you eat is, or how climate-opposing the job is – whether it's like a farmer or like an oil worker, etc. But what the same politicians rarely want to discuss, and which is the elephant in space, is how to get the big countries, like China, the United States and Russia, to cut their emissions. Had we followed their climate policy, and had their climate policy been in force, the world had been warmed up by over 5 degrees. However, it should be stopped in Norway without imposing the strict requirements on the elephant in the room. A lot of people would say that we have to do something, they're all small, they're all monks, they're going, they're going, they're going, they're going, they're going, they're going, they're going, they're going, they're going, they're going, they're going, they're going, they're going, Therefore, Norway is doing a lot with what we are best at, because we have an offensive renewable policy, we are building both water and wind – both to land and to water. Enova has doubled its budgets over the years, and we have, among other things, provided for aid for floating sea wind projects. And just because we have an oil and gas feed, that's something that can succeed. Furthermore, we strengthen Norway’s international leadership in the work against marine pollution. This committee was in Indonesia, where we saw how much plastic and waste is wasted and just disappears into the sea. The problem is that it doesn't disappear, it's spread by the ocean currents, it breaks down into tiny bits and goes into nature's orbit. Like climate challenges, marine pollution is a global problem that needs global action. There were many who were skeptical about using aid to combat marine pollution, but the Progress Party was very clear that we have a global problem, we also need global solutions. I am very pleased that we are also using aid to combat marine pollution. This government also preserves the rainforest, which, like marine litter, has a broad commitment to the population. The Government is continuing the forestry effort and the Energy and Environment Committee was given firsthand access to Norway’s offensive policy during a visit to Indonesia. I look forward to a further good debate and hope that we can also discuss the elephant in the room in today's debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1202	Another elephant in this room is predatory policy. There is not so much in the budget for wild game, but there is an overall committee that supports the recognition that predator management poses major challenges across the country and that funds for prevention and conflict mitigation must be high priority. I don't know if it was accidental that it was just yesterday the Environment Minister made the decision on how many wolves are to be taken out in the wolf zone. It almost begins to become a habit for this government to push the decision as far into Christmas as possible, in order to give the least room for debate in the matter. Anyway, I think we can conclude that this is a working method from the government that is anything but anti-conflict. There is no doubt that the dual objective of predator management must be clarified. It must be made quite clear that there are two equal objectives to be balanced in line with the previous Storting decision. The overall picture that emerges is that today’s predatory game management takes too little account of the community and business community concerned, bringing Norwegian predatory game policies into trouble and creating a number of problems for business and community communities around the country. Yesterday came the Christmas gift of the year from the government and the state council: the decision to bury the wolf within the wolf zone, a wolf zone that has almost become a wolf reserve during this government. The predators had proposed a take-off of 17 wolves, after thorough and locally anchored assessments. The government answers by taking out two wolves, maybe three, and argues with the Nature Diversity Act. Environment Minister Ola Elvesuen uses Section 18(c) of the Natural Diversity Act, on health and safety reasons or other public interests, as a justification for granting permission for the killing of two to three wolves in the Slagås group, but refuses the killing of the Hobøl and Mangen groups on the same basis. In the press conference, the Council of State said that the difference was that people in the plaintås area had lived long with wolves and experienced a greater burden than in the other two giants. The Council of State hereby introduces a system of rotation which destroys people who find their foxes in fillets and their feeding grounds destroyed. This affects people who are hunting, walking and living close to nature. This is not coverage for in the Storting and in the predatory settlement that has been adopted. Governments and governments believe that no more animals can be evicted, due to the fear of the population in Norway. But even the Environment Directorate says that extracting these three flocks will not threaten the wolf population in Norway. So we have a government that has now in a few years made us have a predatory policy completely out of control, a government that refuses to follow up the big game settlement, and that has now completely stopped dealing with the stock target. Time and again, we see it, and it is clearly a breach of the agreed settlement of the Stortinget, which stated that there should be 4-6 young people in Norway. Today, the population is double. The government claims that fewer grazing animals have been taken by wolves in the last few years within the wolf zone. What's important here is the whole story. Much of the reason for the loss of sheep in some areas is that there are no grazing animals left in these areas. If the Council of State Elvesuen continues to use this argument as evidence that the government's predatory policy is working, he should be so honest that he tells the whole truth, not just what fits into his own sense of reality and the notion of a successful and balanced predatory policy. It is the government's responsibility to follow the agreed stockpiles of the Storting for wolves. What we see, on the other hand, is a form of political leadership that lacks the necessary democratic anchoring. This should concern more than the Centre Party. However, it looks as if the Council of State is holding a continuous home-alone party in the predatory business, and that the Right and Advance Party have given the Left complete autonomy over predatory policy here in the country. At the same time, the local population remains — overlooked, overtested and overrun. Now the Center Party has asked for a statement from the government on how to achieve the stock target. I hope we agree to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1217	Petroleum industry is the largest industry in the country and has generated around 14 000 billion since its inception. kr to the community. It creates profitable jobs across the country, and it has great ring-effects. About 170,000 people work in and for this industry, and these people live throughout the country. Let me do two examples of what this industry means. The total expected investment at Johan Castberg is SEK 47 billion. SEK in 2017-krona and with 47 000 annual works in the construction phase. The Johan Sverdrup field alone is expected to generate income for the community of 900 billion. kr for its lifetime, with 150000 annual works until 2025. The transfer of technology and skills from the petroleum industry to other industries is high. This has led to the establishment being a growth engine for other industries. It's just looking at the aquaculture industry. The potential for further value creation is high. Less than half of our extractable resources are produced. It is through stable and predictable framework conditions, the availability of attractive search areas and the commitment to research and development that we are making for new investments and projects. Here, too, the search for fusion is important. An overall industry has been able to increase efficiency and reduce costs. At the same time, the industry is working to further reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Emissions from Norwegian cap are on average less than half the world average. In the long term, however, the activity will depend on new findings, the expansion of existing findings, and the implementation of enhanced extraction projects. The revenues from the petroleum industry account for about one fifth of the country’s revenue in 2019. On a day like today, values must be created before income can be distributed. In Norway, we live well on our energy resources, and this began long before the happy country. The Norwegian industrial venture started with hydropower over a hundred years ago, and it has made the Norwegian power supply nearly 100 percent renewable. This government is building more renewable power than in many decades. With the flexible hydropower as the backbone of our energy system, and a windy country – at least where I live – we have natural, good opportunities for wind power. The government is working with a national framework for wind power. This is not a development plan, but to direct the location of wind power to the most appropriate areas of this country. We also propose to open one or two areas for concession applications for offshore wind power. We need to take care of and further develop the existing hydropower, while facilitating the creation and development of new, profitable renewables. This is an important job, because the power is being used in more and more areas and in more and more sectors. That is why we need to develop further the competitive advantages we have, because this gives jobs, and it helps us towards the low-carbon society. The government has an ambition to realise a cost-effective solution for full-scale CO 2 management, which has given rise to technology developments in an international perspective. We will come back to the Stortingen for an investment decision once the project is completed. The annual allocations for the prevention of flood and rapid damage have increased during this government and amount to 394 million in the draft budget. kr when Svalbard is included. The government has further proposed 55 million in the 2018 amendment proposal. kr to follow up the flood in Uppland and the West this year earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1243	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1248	In Norway, we like to think that we're the best at most. If the president promises not to tell anyone, I can admit that's not always true. But in one area it is actually true: how we managed the oil and oil resources, where our handling model surpasses that of any other country has managed to succeed. We have a lot to be proud of. Wise people entered their time and saw both challenges and opportunities with this. I want to challenge the Council of State on a potential contrast between two considerations. Now we have received the Climate Risk Committee report, which I believe is a very good investigation. It's very thorough and it says a lot of smart things, and one of them is that all sectors need to be stressed up against climate risk, that is, economic climate risk, not just climate policy risk. On the other hand, we have all said – and most people in this room still say it – that there should be stable framework conditions. Can we continue to say that in the future, or must we also take on the need to stress oil policy against climate risk?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1255	I believe today's system is already doing this in a good way. I notice that the Climate Risk Committee believes that the Norwegian economy, overall, is relatively robust. But Norway is a small and open economy, and climate change is going to affect us too. Petroleum industry and activities are very important for the Norwegian economy. The sample points out that climate risk does not mean that the principle of neutrality of the petroleum tax system should be waived. The finance minister received this report last week, and I believe it is in safe hands. It will be sent out at a wide consultation before it receives its follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1260	I thank you for your answer. We look forward to a discussion and expect the government to go into this in all sectors. Since our largest sector is the Council of State Freiberg, it is important that this sector also takes this very seriously. As the Council of State was right, we now know that more than half of the total resources have been removed. The Climate Risk Committee says that the value of the remaining resources depends on how to deal with the Paris agreement. If the Paris agreement succeeds, the value of the remaining funds is lower than if it fails, because demand will fall sharply. Does the Council of State mean that we should commit ourselves to a scenario where our oil policy is compatible with the success of the Paris Agreement? Or should we rather gamble with the failure of the Paris Agreement, and then assume that we have the values we used to base?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1265	I believe that today's petroleum policy is directed towards the 2 degree target and the 1.5 degree target in the Paris Agreement. The climate challenge is global and needs to be addressed globally. To use the analysis of the International Energy Agency: they show that there will be a need for oil and gas in the future energy mix for decades to come. Norway has a competitive and attractive base, because we have good instruments and a good tax policy for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1272	Once again, I would like to thank you for your answer. I agree with what the Council of State says about the sustainability of the industry itself. My point here was to a lesser extent a climate policy measure, but more an economic one. If the climate risk committee is right, the remaining underground wealth is much less valuable if the Paris agreement succeeds than if it fails. Since, in our general policy, we assume that the Paris Agreement is successful, there will still be a lot of money to fetch – hundreds of billions of dollars – but less than what you have previously estimated. Then the question is, should this lead to some adjustments to the calculations we're doing? Or does it have to lead to an even faster transition into other industries, since we now have the Climate Risk Committee? I really understand that the Council of States does not have all the answers to this now, but I would challenge him to look at this, so that we can look at this in the follow-up to the Climate Risk Committee, including those parties that believe predictability and long lines are important in oil policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1277	As I pointed out in the previous answer, the climate challenges are global and need to be addressed globally. One thing we can probably say about the oil price: it's going to go up and down. Norway has an attractive base today, we know and we see it, and we know it will be a need for Norwegian oil and gas also in the future energy mix for many decades to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1282	I'm not going to ask the Council of State about the wolf, because that's where I think we're quite in agreement. But I'm going to ask the state council about the integration of network rentals. Some time ago, I challenged the Minister of Oil and Energy for the lack of follow-up to the Stortingen decision to investigate different models of network rental. The Council of State claimed that it had done so. The chapter of the budget proposal from the Ministry cannot be strictly referred to as an investigation. The Ministry only assesses one model, namely the merger of a network company. A broad majority of the Grand Duchy has asked for an investigation into different models for balancing network tariffs in a separate case to ensure more equal prices, including in districts. My question is whether the Council of State intends to follow up the majority decision of the Stortinget. When can one expect such an investigation to be prepared and presented to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1287	Our power grid is essential for a secure power supply. The costs of maintaining and deploying the mains are borne by those using the network. The regulation of the mains shall contribute to the efficient operation and deployment of the network and to the cost to electricity customers not exceeding what is necessary. Then I believe that I answered what the Storting asked for through the request decision, in our budget proposal. There I show you, among other things: to the previous report, which is comprehensive, on which the evidence base is up-to-date and presented in the proposition. Then I can confirm that, of course, the Council of State is going to follow up the proposal that I believe will be adopted in today's budget budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1295	During the recent climate negotiations in Poland, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, Gisle Meininger Saudland, stepped out and said that we had to stop climate change. He thought Norway was doing enough in the climate battle. Electric car was one of the measures he listed as a climate pain for the population. My question is: does the Council of State also believe that the government is climate-torting the population, and does the Council of State also believe that Norway is really doing enough in the climate struggle?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1300	I believe that the government statement, which is my mission document, draws up the right direction for the climate work and the important work we have ahead of us. I also believe that the state budget does. The Minister for Climate and Environment has just been on the floor and has explained to us, among other things. what the government is doing. Taking a drive – insofar as you have a car – you will see that there is a long way between the signs that are not ‘el’ on, precisely because there is a deliberate policy, a misguided policy and a correct policy on the job with the climate challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1305	The major debate on renewable energy is also important, and phasing out the oil and gas sectors in the long term implies the possibility of building up something new. This fall I have tried to invite to a debate on thinking even more Nordic – a stronger Nordic energy cooperation in the future, especially in relation to electricity, is important. Norway is very favourable to the North Sea, we have an active base, the United Kingdom wants close cooperation, and we have Nordic neighbours with whom we work well. My question is, what vision can we take for the next 25 years related to Nordic cooperation to electrify the Nordic region? Also in the case of a Nordic hydrogen strategy — can the Council of State say something about what a person is doing there to strengthen Nordic cooperation?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1310	I believe we are working in a broad field against our European friends in the field of energy. Norway as a nation has a lot to contribute here. We've been into sea wind, and Norway has absolutely a role to play here, not least because we have the expertise and technology from the petroleum industry that is going to play an important role in this. That's why we're working on opening up two areas of sea wind.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1323	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1328	On the same day that the government presented its budget, the UN presented its 1.5-degree report. It showed two things: it showed the difference of 1.5 degrees and 2 degrees, and it showed how far away we are from achieving our climate targets. Climate policy is marked by bad news. Emissions do not go down, consequences are getting worse, and more and more people are getting to know the price of climate change on their bodies. But what's the good news is that it's possible to do something about it. It is possible to apply new technology and do things in other ways if we have the will. But then it has to be done quickly, and it has to be done vigorously. The world has only a few years to cope with the most dangerous climate change. Therefore, climate must be the framework of everything we do. For all the political choices we make, we have to ask ourselves about the climate impact of it. This budget does not respond to it. It is almost comic to hear the boastings from especially the Right, which can report that in Norway everything is well done. The problem is that no one else has understood it, except the Right Magnification Group. The truth is that the contrast between the UN report and Siv Jensen's submissions to the State budget could hardly have been greater. This is not a budget that takes inwards the seriousness of climate change. This is the first government budget left to write for itself. I must honestly admit that I had faith that there would be at least some new climate promise. It would be thought that the Left would have something left to break its electoral vow not to become a junior partner for the Progress Party. But no, there is no new climate promise, no new initiatives. It's going to continue with the same rather limited climate exposure that this government has had. Ola Elvestuen has not got anything into this budget that didn't get Tine Sundtoft and Vidar Helgesen. I think it was a good illustration right here, where the Left had to use a line against its own government council to get an answer to what they were wondering. Now it is Ola Elvestuen who has experienced what it is like to work with the climate in a government where Siv Jensen will have the last words. To use the Prime Minister's own words, it's hard to stand up for the climate in a government where no one is so concerned about it. In the Workers' Party, we're very concerned about it. It's our most important thing. Climate must be crucial for all policy issues. In the government budget of the year, climate accounting was as important to us as the economic accounts. Or actually it's even more important, because the government budgets are coming and going, a poor allocation one year can be corrected a year later, but the emission accounts are final. The emissions we are making in 2019 cannot be resolved later. That is why the Workers' Party has done the job that the government has not been able to do on its own, namely to create a climate budget that shows the way to 2030. Today's government does not deliver in climate policy. They promised to strengthen the climate agreement. The truth is, they won't be close to reaching it. So with today's government, we will not achieve the 2020 targets, and for the first time, we will no longer have a national climate goal to reach. In the change of line from the Progress Party, we heard how they took credit for Norway to now buy emission reductions abroad instead of trading at home, and that it happens with a Climate State Council from the Left, is quite incredible. The working party will do a lot more. We want strengthened national targets, for everyone has to do their own. We do not want to put it off by buying ourselves free, because we want to invest in Norway – creating new green industry, investing in aquaculture, new technology and public transport in cities. For climate-friendly society to create new industries, and they need to be put into it now. That's how we avoid sudden changes, and we avoid climate action making greater differences between people. Our demand is the opposite: we want a fair transition where everyone is involved and where the differences between people get smaller. Then a more active climate and industrial policy is needed than what we get from today's government. The only thing we get from this government is that the emission figures finally go down a little bit. I should be happy for that, but the truth is that this is not due to good environmental policies, it is due to bad environmental policies. Because it's due to massive use of palm oil. It may look good on a spreadsheet, but it leads to massive deforestation and increased emissions in other countries. We want palm oil out of biofuels. Here the government has been the total activator. Even the decisions that Ola Elvesuen himself agreed to make here in the Storting, his government has not been able to follow up. It's good that the Stortinget now in this year's budget has a decision to get it out, but with the experience we have, it's amazing that we're giving them a whole year to get it done. One thing is certain: Here comes the Workers' Party – we do not accept another year of broken promises from this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1349	Most people know the story of Norway. Our history is characterized by Viking times, black death and unions, but our history is also a story of energy. Almost a thousand years ago, we realized that an aquifer could help us turn grain into flour and flour into bread. The hydropower was also very central when we later found new and smarter ways to process timber. Our proud industrial history from the 1900s and beyond is built on – yes, precisely – hydropower. In the 20th century, we experienced wars that put deep traces into our society. We were quite poor, and we had a great need to rebuild society. In the 1970s, a lot more women got into paid work, and we also went into a new energy bag – we found the oil. When I stand here today, I know that our story in general, and the 1900s in particular, gave us a lot of good things. Economically, there have been good times for many individuals and families, for the state and for our welfare community. However, we are facing major challenges in the future because of the use of our resources. The CO 2 image we've created makes climate change today the world's most remote challenge. I know that my pension is not going to be financed by oil money. I, and the generations after me, just can't afford to think that's the oil we're going to live off, because the oil isn't going to give us all the fantasies we're going to need to finance the future. We're going to have to have more legs to stand on. So what about the future? What kind of story are we going to write? We have to believe that the solutions exist out there, for: what made our ancestors jump in their Viking ships and sail to Iceland and America? It was optimism and engineering. And what did our ancestors get to bet on hydropower plants and jobs on a large scale "that no one would believe anyone could live" over 100 years ago? It was also optimistic and good engineering. We also have to face climate change with optimism, a belief that it can go, because we still have engineers and other wise heads who are able to make a big difference. So how can this budget help to ensure that optimism is well-founded? Water-powered mills and cases are examples of how good ideas change the way we do things. Sam Eyde and Kristian Birkeland started fertilizer production, Norsk Hydro and a large industrial venture based on Norwegian energy. Today we have Enova, who supports the development of new energy and climate technologies. With over three billion. Next year's budget, we expect results that will take the country in the right direction. Enova is today's tool to help people like Eyde and Birkeland come forward as they develop tomorrow's solutions. We also have Nysnø, which deliberately invests in climate friendly to draw Norway in the right direction. The good ideas are out there, and the instrument has to be designed to make them flourish and even perhaps create a new renewable adventure. This government is focusing on research and innovation in climate action. It's not just about what we do nationally. It's also about international work. Good climate action requires close international cooperation, and not least the sharing of knowledge and solutions. Here, Norway can and should take a leading role because we have some advantage. We have had a growth that has made good living conditions available to all, most of them. In many countries it is felt to say no to fossil energy as saying no to better living conditions. That is why we are focusing on renewable solutions and other climate and environmental measures in the aid budget, so that reducing emissions and improving living conditions for those with the most difficulty does not exclude each other. Climate change is a major threat, but there is also a great opportunity in the necessary green shift. We need an ambition to develop green solutions for the whole world. We could be a green lab. Norway's cheek eggs are that we're experts on energy, have the economy to make profitable investments, and that we have a knowledgeable population. What's crucial now is that we use it the right way, and that it goes fast enough. We need to maintain society. We need to maintain the welfare community, and we need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. I hope that the next chapters in Norway's history will show that we have succeeded.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1371	The climate crisis is humanity's greatest common challenge. The Climate Panel report shows that although average temperature increases stop at 1.5 degrees of global warming, average temperatures may still be 3–3.5 degrees higher in Norway. Nor is it obvious that we reach the goal of 1.5 degrees. It means very big changes in people's lives. Most likely the consequences will be most severe northwards, as the warming is strongest as you approach the poles. The climate change we are already recording leads to lasting and dramatic changes. Climate change is leading to more rainfall, more heavy rainfall and extreme weather. So we must be prepared for more frequent floods and escapes. The NVE has an important task of identifying risks and preventing and limiting damage caused by floods and slips — as a consequence of, among other things. climate change. It is important that NVE Facilities have staff with the right experience and competence to advise municipalities and contractors and to assist in necessary planning. Many municipalities have not carried out danger zone monitoring and can benefit from NVE in land planning to ensure against the risks associated with slip and floods in watercourses. In December 2016, the NVE submitted a report stating that today’s level of funding does not allow many hedging projects to be implemented. Furthermore, the NVE indicates that increased appropriations could lead to a reduction in the cost to society of floods and events, both direct costs of repairing buildings and infrastructure and costs of infrastructure disruptions. In addition, we know that many people who live and live in flood and racially exposed areas feel a great deal of uncertainty and fear. All experience shows that it is wiser and cheaper to prevent damage rather than repair in retrospect, which was confirmed and well documented in, among other things. Swedish public investigations. The same conditions apply to Norway. Studies show that the cost of preventing damage to roads and bridges due to pace, race, degradation and flooding was estimated to be about four times lower than the cost of repair. The need for increased appropriations and their importance are well documented. Therefore, the Workers' Party wants to increase the allocations for climate adaptation and flooding by 150 million. in addition to the Government's proposals. The grants shall address climate change and extreme weather, floods and rapids, monitoring, prevention, security, equipment and knowledge. We have to make it easier for water to find its way into the earth – have green and open areas, let trees delay the water and have a grid that takes away precipitation. More rainfall and extreme weather are leading to increased pressures on the water and sewerage sectors, where there is already a major lag in maintenance and upgrading. The working party therefore proposes 40 million. in addition to the government's proposals for climate action and adaptation in municipalities. The tailoring of national and county roads is one of the main priorities of the Workers' Party in the National Transport Plan for the period 2018-2029. The working party therefore proposes 300 million. kr more for protection of national and county roads. There is a great deal of distance between the government's budget and the real need. The working party therefore wants to strengthen its efforts against flooding and to move by nearly 500 million. kr in the alternative budget. I registered that the Council of State Freiberg mentioned a figure for expected investment in Johan Castberg development. That's a lot of money. This is an extension that contributes to important industrial tasks for Norwegian industry throughout the country. I hope the Council of State has included a landing terminal at Weidnes in that amount. With that, I just want to say I'm about to get very cold – I hope I don't infect anyone – and I want everyone to have a good Christmas. [[Huming in the hall]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1394	In a time when it seems that we humans are more and more able to take on ourselves that something has to do with climate change, I notice that we are many who, perhaps, in our eagerness to describe both dangers and opportunities, are also involved in creating a fear and a fear of the future among both the young and the elderly. I believe, of course, that the facts should be presented, we should be clear about the consequences of our lifestyle, and we should be clear about what we know, that our prosperity development has resulted in harmful emissions, a consequence that we were unable to see when it came to. But what I now think is our most important task as elected representatives is to put forward and make visible good measures that give people the hope that this will be solved – together. We have to get to this. The world out there is about to get our eyes up seriously, and we're taking the lead in what we're going to do here in the country, both nationally and internationally. I'd like to be a climate optimist. I'll think we'll make it, and I'll be willing to make tough decisions that will certainly hurt someone, but it'll be a short-term pain up against the perspective of a future earth in a good condition. Climate change leads to a wetter and wilder weather, and here at home are the main challenges of flooding and race, and it is immeasurably important to set aside money for flood and rapid prevention to individual municipalities in the future. Here is the really great need that must be taken over time, but this government, along with the Christian People's Party, follows up well. We've set at 257 million. kr to this in 2019. At the same time, we have also given an authorisation to exceed this amount by up to 150 million. kr. And what's important is the $8 million. kr that have been allocated to new posts in the NVE to assist individual municipalities in the management of floods. Here is the need to strengthen the knowledge base on urban and urban run-off. And we're not just going to care about what's going on here at home. More than ever, it is important to strengthen our efforts for climate, environment and energy in the rest of the world. This is to the benefit of the 2019 aid budget – sea and marine pollution, prevention and climate adaptation, and environmental action in developing countries, to name a few. The importance of research and development cannot be stressed enough. My county is the so-called oil state, Rogaland. We're in transition after some tough years, but it's still the case that optimism about jobs and welfare is rising as the oil price goes. The oil sector is – and will be – very important for Rogaland for many years to come, but the transition to new and sustainable industries is important for many actors. Much of the expertise from the oil will help us with the conversion to become an energy company, and it's also interesting that the big oil companies are turning their gazes and their investments towards renewable energy, and that's where we have to be able to think two thoughts – at least – at the same time. Oil and gas industry is our biggest and most important industry, and we are to be proud of the well-being and value creation that that industry has given us. I am pleased that this government will continue to maintain a stable and predictable petroleum policy, which has served us well, while at the same time increasing the commitment to knowledge and research to provide new knowledge and solutions in climate, energy and petroleum technologies that are leading the world towards a low-carbon society. I am proud that we are taking the goal of being a leading country in environmentally friendly energy production, and the fact that we are once again increasing support for Enova confirms the will of this government and Christian People's Party to sharpen and strengthen this work. That's what we call green conversion. Then we might think that more drastic action should have been taken, but we're in the process and we're going to continue this. The increase in Enova's budgets is this government that has contributed, and we are the ones who have replaced the red-green symbolism policy with real emissions cuts. We all want a healthy Earth, also for the future. I became a grandmother almost three years ago and – I just have to say – it gives extra motivation to dare to be tough for her sake. Because it's our children and our grandchildren' future, and for their sakes, we can't dare not take the climate challenges seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1413	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1419	Everything is related to everything, said our former Environment Minister, Prime Minister and Director-General of the World Health Organisation, Gro Harlem Brundtland, and rarely fits the quote as well as when it comes to the relationship between a healthy planet and our own health. Earlier in the autumn, the World Health Organisation produced a report on just climate and health. There is a strong link between climate change, air pollution and health problems. Let's do air pollution first. Every year, more than 7 million people die from air pollution. The cause of death is usually heart disease, stroke, chronic lung disease or lung cancer, but actually it is the air at the place where they live, which kills people – who kill us. 90 pst. by people living in urban areas, breathing air in excess of the World Health Organisation’s limit values for air pollution. That's why I'm so proud of the grips the Red-Green City Council is doing in Oslo, it's crazy politics that make the city more environmentally friendly and healthier. The same is true of my home municipality, Ski, which has the environment of the future as one of its five main fields of activity. Climate change affects us both directly and indirectly. Temperature rises, heat waves, droughts and floods lead to a number of health-related plagues and deaths. These may include waterborne diseases, injuries, poisoning, malnutrition, hot flushes, infections, etc. And so climate change affects part of us mentally, which I know myself in. I have had four children in the world's best country for mothers and children, and I have had – knocking on the table – few concerns after I became a mother for the first time ten years ago, but after the summer we've left behind, I have known a great deal of unrest, yes, I must admit that I'm a little afraid of what the future of my children and their generation will look like, given the stability of the world, the danger of extreme violence and natural disasters and the availability of food and medicine. I'm worried if our children and grandchildren can live a good life in a health-promoting environment. In this Chamber we are 169 representatives who have a special responsibility. Our generation already sees the major impacts of climate change. We have enough knowledge. We are the last generation that can do powerful enough to stop climate change. I'm worried, but equally fully optimistic. On December 8, 2018, it was 100 years since Hans Børli was born. In conclusion, therefore, I will make his words mine: « You and I are not correct words to say. – The world hope is this Poor word Vi. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1446	The world experiences loss of nature that we have never seen the husband of as long as humans have existed. It's a fact. Every year we lose about 2 pst. of the animal life of the world. In the course of my adult life since 1970 - 1970 was otherwise the first year of nature conservation - the world's animal populations have been reduced by an average of 60 pst., according to WWF's Living Planet Report, which is well known. Many have heard of the importance of insects recently, and alarming information has come from Germany. We also know that. As the populations sink, the species also die out at high speed. At the same time, there will be less wilderness – smaller and smaller. The worst thing for us is that the loss of nature is equally widespread in Norway, and the worst part of all is that the incorrect disposal of land is the main cause of all of this. Worse still, liberalised expansion and degradation are a desired policy of this government. I have taken that up several times in this room, among others. in an interpellation a short time ago. Now, with deep concern, as it says, most of the UN's sustainability targets cannot be met by 2020, the opinions of the recent UN conference on natural diversity in Sharm el Sheikh, Egypt. There was our Environment Minister, Ola Elvestuen, so he knows well about this. In Norway, at least 114 species have died in the last 200 years. Every five species in Norwegian nature are at greater or lesser risk of extinction, if we do nothing, according to the Norwegian Red List of Endangered Species – not least thoughtful and long-term land disposal is crucial for the loss of nature, species and cultivated land. The government has given clear leadership to give municipalities greater freedom and fewer objections from the State and other trade unions. This applies, for example: the interpretation of the Nature Diversity Act. This causes nature to lose – over and over again. A fresh example can tell you all, mostly. The case of a bypass on Karmøy in Rogaland, fv. 47 Land south of Veakossen, has become a test piece for the government's respect for the Nature Diversity Act. There are great natural values in play here. The County Government raised its objections for the second time, but the Ministry of Local Affairs approved the plan in 2016. Then comes the Civil Ombudsman on the track and demands a new treatment of the department, with reference to the Nature Diversity Act § 7. But then, on my birthday on December 7th, a week ago – thank you to the Council of State for the gift – the Council of State approves the expansion, or the municipal council plan, and overruns nature conservation protests and the County Council's objections again, that is. with some unclear wording on some remedial leads for the regulatory plan. So I ask you to bear this in mind: Land disposal is very, very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1459	We know that climate challenges are growing. We also know that we need to take greater responsibility for the solutions. Our urban areas have a great potential to reduce climate change emissions. A large part of the cuts must be made in the transport sector and road traffic must be reduced. Reductions in car traffic must be accompanied by greater efforts on public travel and better access for those who go and ride bicycles. This reduces road traffic and local air pollution in agglomerations and offers new opportunities to develop better and more environmentally friendly public spaces. In our largest cities, we know that many of our citizens have taken on good habits in the use of bicycles and collective means of transport. Such a trend is also needed in medium-sized cities. However, in order to be able to change these attitudes and actions, politicians must be responsible and provide assistance from the state. In Bodø, Ålesund, Haugesund, Arendal, Grimstad and Vestfoldbyen, there is now a targeted effort to increase the collective share and to facilitate walking and cycling. These cities cooperate closely with county municipalities to get the bus moving quickly, and they are guided by the same objectives as the major cities – with urban congestion and zero growth in passenger car transport. Population growth is also expected in these medium-sized urban areas up to 2040, and it goes without saying that if no action is taken here, today’s transport distribution will increase the use of private cars rather than reduce them. The Labour Party believes that we need to clarify quickly when the urban growth agreement will be extended to include more, which I also sent the Minister for Transport a written question about last week. The answer is that whether or not to extend the scheme to several urban areas is something one can decide on when the next roll-out of the national transport plan, i.e. in 2022. This appears to be a waiting-and-see attitude and will not help us to get closer to the goal of reducing climate emissions, rather on the contrary. In these five medium-sized urban regions, half a million people live together. About 80 pst. of the journeys here take place today by car. The potential for changing travel habits and thus climate change emissions is high. Here we can really do something like monks. The Labour Party is clear that we will extend the scheme so that it is made available to several cities. For the Workers' Party, it is essential to use transport policy as one of several tools to reduce climate emissions. This has to do something about now, and so we don't have time to wait.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1474	The climate is at the heart of this debate, and it is in place. In autumn, the United Nations Panel on Climate Change presented its latest report, showing major differences in the Arctic. With a temperature rise of 1.5 degrees on average globally, we will see two to three times as high temperature rise in the Arctic, as well as extremely large regional differences. In this context, the Arctic is also North Norway. The changes that come from this warming up are not coming in the future. We can already observe them. The sea ice is smaller than ever and thinner than before. North of Greenland, we see that multi-yearly melts. It used to be solid; now it cracks up into small pieces. At Svalbard it goes where it never went before, even with fatal outcomes. Permafrost tins, and it destroys infrastructure. In Alaska you move entire villages because they rage in the sea as a result of increased erosion. Change in nature threatens the traditional ways of living, threatening the Inuit, Samer and other indigenous peoples. When I meet reindeer workers at the Finnmarkswiss, they say: Here it grows a bear, it didn't before. The consequence is that their basis of life is threatened. The report by AMAP, Arctic Monitoring and Evaluation Programme of the Arctic Council, of October on marine acidification shows that marine acidification in combination with high temperatures threatens cod fishing in the Barents Sea. It has a value of 10 billion. kr on both the Russian and Norwegian sides. Its net power could be up to 2.3 billion. kr annually in lost income from value added. Climate change has come, and it has consequences for people's lives. In September, I attended the thirteenth Arctic Parliamentary Conference in Finland. There was, of course, a climate very central. One of the issues that is going on is that climate change is not something that is being created locally. They are not created in the Arctic either. They can only be solved globally, as Councillor Elvestuen did earlier today. If this is the case that we in the north are hit first and hardest, we can at the same time take on board the fact that Arctic Council, including the countries with observer status, including the EU, stands for 80 pst. of the global emissions. If it is so difficult to find a solution globally, perhaps the challenge of the Elvessu State Council is to address, to put Arctic advice in the driver's seat and to get the 20 actors to enter into a partnership to lead, so we can solve the global crisis between 20 countries, instead of 200 countries agreeing to start with.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1487	The cities of Norway are at the forefront of the fight for the environment. We need courageous politicians who dare to challenge and create policies for the future, courageous politicians who choose smart solutions, build environmentally friendly, pollute less locally and contribute to less global emissions. Politicians in our cities show action and have put in place measures to improve the environment, such as public transport, bicycle routes, restrictions on car use and local car-free areas. In Oslo, greenhouse gas emissions are going down, and our climate policy attracts great international attention. In 2016, emissions decreased by 8 pst., while in Norway they overall decreased by only 1 pst. Not least, we need politicians who dare to prepare the climate budget. The State budget in dollars may and should be the result of a budget that counts our own emissions. In Oslo, we have been presenting climate budgets for several years now. How we politicians solve the big global megatrends is crucial. Good responses to climate, migration, urbanisation and integration are essential for the success of creating a sustainable planet. Until now, too few politicians have dared to go ahead and make brave choices for the future. The politicians who have taken bold steps have in common that they represent big cities. Good examples are the rapporteurs in London and Paris, and not least the mayor of Oslo, Raymond Johansen. The big cities now look at Oslo and come here to learn. Barcelona has visited Oslo and is now going to copy the Oslo climate budget. The climate manager in New York was here just and wanted to learn how Oslo is setting climate requirements for both Oslo pension funds and emission-free construction sites. In Oslo Arbeiderparti we have wanted a car-free centre since 2003. In 2014, the county adopted a comprehensive and radical environmental policy we went to elections in 2015. The City Council is now implementing the policy we adopted in 2014. Being part of a modern and forward-looking environmental party that Oslo Arbeiderparti makes me proud – proud of being politically active and pursuing policies that make a difference. Think I'm part of the team that politicians from around the world now come to learn from. To move the flock, someone has to go ahead and show way. In our time, cities and, in fact, Oslo in particular are such guides. Now the nations have to take care of and learn from the cities. The government can at any time visit Oslo and learn from Raymond, as so many other environmentalists around the world do. Welcome, please.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1502	State Council Elvestuen has, with the approval of its government partners in the Right and Advance Party, overrun the regional predators and the professional advice of its own directorate and thus does not allow the pursuit of the wolf in the Hobøl Reviret and Mangen Reviret. They have in the same sling also run over and ignored the big deal in this case. Both parts separately are a serious matter. Equally serious is the fact that the Minister of Agriculture of the Progress Party is involved in the presentation of the decision to overrun the predatory wildlife names, the directorate and the compromise made in the Stortinget. So a few minutes after the presentation, we experience that the Progress Party is coming on the track and disagrees with its own government and government council. This kind of lack of coordination and governance by the government is to the detriment of the matter, it is to the detriment of the confidence of the entire board of robbers, and that is not what we are doing. The Robbery debate is difficult enough as it is, and now the government and the Progress Party, together with the Council of State Elvestuen, are rotating it again. The wolf zone, where Østfold is included, shall not be a fully satisfied reserve for the wolf. That's never meant to be. There should be a management of the wolf also within the zone, just as the predators have decided, but which is now being dominated by the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left, by the Council of State Elvesuen. We must be able to expect a government to deal with a decision and a settlement made in Stortinget, and we must be able to expect a more orderly act of the government parties, which are responsible for the day-to-day. We have to say, unfortunately, that it doesn't look like this every day. The Labour Party, together with the Senter Party, has sent a letter to the Prime Minister today asking the government to come to the Stortinget and explain the decision. There is a great need for this, especially when we look at the behaviour and attitude of the Progress Party on the matter, where the Stortings-Fremskrit party disagrees once again with the Government-Fremskrit party. It's only been a few hours. Finally, I just have to admit that I rarely agree with the County Summit of the Advance Party in Østfold, Håvard Jensen, but now he demands the Advance Party out of government, and I support that view. I can add it on my own account: they should never have been there.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1517	A common theme for Right-wing speakers here today has been our natural resources, both the value creation we build on hydropower and the value creation we build on oil. And it's easy to agree with that. But it has to be mentioned that if we had done what the Right would have done in terms of the hydropower, we might not have been quite where we are today, in terms of national ownership and official control, value creation and the ability of hydropower to be a motor in green conversion. In this outreach of natural resources, I miss one thing, and it's forest. One doesn't mention the forest, but it's clear that the forest and the wood processing industry are also one of our big industries, building a lot of value creation on Norwegian natural resources. For this reason, many people are concerned that the Environment Directorate is now in Tøndelag and Nordland alone to record 82,000 forest objectives for protection purposes, because they want to meet the 10 p.m. forest protection adopted by the Stortinget, which will be more than a triple of today's voluntary protection policy. What worries us even more is that today there are 13 days for the government to report to the EU the so-called reference path for greenhouse gas emissions into the land ecosystem, including forests. It's just about what opportunity we're going to have to use the forest as a climate solution in the years to come. There has been a process full of secrecy and with little debate, but the reality is that of the eleven different reference paths that the Environment Directorate has investigated, only one of them will allow us to use the forest as part of the climate solution. All ten others will restrict the use of forests as a Norwegian natural resource. It turns out that the recommended reference route proposed by the Environment Directorate does not provide the opportunity to maintain logging because it refers to the stock volume, not to the volume of timber, and that subtracting it means subtracting a good part of what is available in the forest. The only model that can be accepted if we are to maintain what Stortinget has said about using the forest as a climate solution is the so-called model 11, which is not developed according to EU accounting rules, but rather made by the Swedes. We can get into a situation where we will have to pay allowances to the EU to be allowed to grow arable land. Importing timber from Russia may be more environmentally friendly than using Norwegian timber. Such a solution will be beyond reason, and in 13 days the government will decide, and if the government makes mistakes there, it's going to be a raid.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1530	So soon after we have received new reports that show how serious the climate noise is, it is quite discouraging to witness a debate where there are still many in this room who go up on the pulpit and almost speak as if there is oil drilling for climate. It's not doing anything about the climate that's going to be expensive, difficult and dangerous, and it's trying to turn us away now from dangerous oil and gas activities and into climate-friendly solutions that are going to be what's safe in the future, both to provide us with new jobs that we need to live on, and to balance the climate. Not least, what many other countries are doing. So we can't risk being left behind without participating in the modern technology development. I hear more people have been to the pulpit and said that they have become grandmothers. I am the grandmother of four, and I fully agree with the representative from the Right that it contributes to a new seriousness into it all, but then it must be that we take this more seriously than what the Right does, among other things. by providing us with food. We have a dry summer behind us. We know what that means if we can't get food. This is serious in many places around the world, where areas where it is possible to produce food today may not be possible to live in. There may be hundreds of thousands of refugees. It's not a safe world. A world of great climate change is not a safe world. A world of great climate change is an expensive, terrible world to leave to our grandchildren. So everything that's profitable is not valuable and protective. It can even hurt us. Then we have to turn around in time. Listening to the climate agreement that has now been concluded in Poland, which is a bit on the way, but which lacks some of the absolutely decisive means that we actually reach the targets, that in Norway, which is a very rich country, we cannot take on a driving role to reverse this. It would actually also be in our own interest, because then we would be in front of horses' heads in developing new technology that we could live on in the future. So all of us who are grandparents really have a job to do to secure the world for our grandchildren.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1541	The representative by representative is in charge of the climate and environmental changes the world is facing. This is good and good, and it's important to remember the state of things. At the same time, I would like to challenge: what are the concrete measures? What can we do that actually contributes to climate accounting? How can we replace consumption with reuse? The centre party will have a climate policy for the major actions. We are therefore strong supporters of a CO2 business transport fund. We have already learned that the NOx Fund has been a great success. It is based on a model where connected enterprises in the business community pay in to the fund instead of paying a NOx tax. The business community may then apply to the Fund for support for emission reduction measures. This shows a direct context in which costs from emissions are stimulated to reduce emissions and mitigation measures. Heavy traffic is currently accounting for twice as much emissions as the passenger car fleet. Here we have to and can cut large emissions quickly. It is therefore of the opinion that it is important to get solutions in place for this sector now. The latest United Nations climate report shows that the government is failing to achieve a faster green transition – it is too slow. The economy itself is impatient to get started, but the government has signaled that they want a solution where the state goes through Enova to manage such a fund. This implies a rejection of the initiative of industry to establish an environmental agreement that they can manage themselves. There is no good way to start such an important work. Already in the context of the treatment of the 2017 State budget, it was decided to establish a CO2 fund, but the 2019 State budget has still not provided any funds or indicated that this is a commitment that is in progress in the near future. This is too weak and shows no willingness or ability to do a job for the big and concrete actions. Instead, the climate minister is currently most concerned about cutting the consumption of meat by Norwegian consumers and encourages less food waste. These measures are not close to being policy on significant climate change and seem, frankly, quite tame. The economy has had a strong desire to manage a similar fund for business transport, but the government is not very responsive. The centre party has long seen the need for such a model for the transport sector and has proposed appropriations for that purpose. I'll say hello from the NHO and the rest of the business. They are motivated and ready to take on the work – is it the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1554	Over several years, there has been a debate in Norway on migration and the green shift. All things considered: we have companies that take the initiative and that can point to good single examples, and we have not least skilled workers. But it's striking how little information we get about how it actually goes about the conversion. What do the numbers show? While Sweden is at the same level as before the financial crisis with regard to investments in new industries that are largely based on renewable energy sources and raw materials, the figures for Norway are flat. Over several years, while Sweden is rising, Norway is flat. In September, there was a new SSB figure showing the development of industrial production. Then they could report that from May to July there was an increase of only 0.4 pst. While we see that there is a need for far greater investment in new jobs and new industries in Norway, the economic differences between people in Norway are also increasing. This is very important in this debate on migration and a more climate-friendly society, because it is only those countries with small economic differences between people who will be equipped to undergo an improvement in society and who will bring down emissions. It's a lesson we can take from what we now see out of rebellion in France: when the differences get too big, it's in practice very difficult to imagine that people want to be part of the transition that's going on. That's why there's an elephant in this room that hasn't been mentioned, but the elephants were wanted in the room. Then, in such an important debate as this debate in the Energy and Environment Committee at Stortinget, we need to find it. When we have the most market liberal government in Norway's history, which deliberately increases the economic differences between people, it creates a much worse starting point for creating a better future, with good prospects and lower emissions. It's just the broad, popular parties, that fight for smaller differences between people, that can be able to carry out the positive change that we now need.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1567	The fight against climate change is a good thing, a good thing for everyone to do. Especially we, who have served our search for pollution, have a responsibility. Just this point has passed the representatives of the Progress Party in this hall house. We have to stop chaoticing the population, said Gisle Meininger Saudland at the climate summit in Poland and mentioned the electric car as an example of a climate pain – electric car, which gives us clean air, which reduces CO 2 emissions, and which, after what I hear, gives good driving experiences. But it's probably like that as long as the car doesn't go on petrol or diesel, or cause health damage, it's a climate pain. What does the Progress Party want? Well, they'll make it more expensive to buy an electric car, make it more expensive for ordinary people to drive environmentally friendly. While the price of a Porsche Cayenne, which only the richest in this country can afford to buy, is going to be unchanged, the price of an electric car is going up. And not only that, but the Progress Party also believes that the increased prices of an electric car are going to sponsor the Porsche Cayenne drivers through the bombing. Income shall be earmarked for reduced toll rates. With the Progress Party, therefore, the polluter must be paid – not paid. And not enough, the polluter is to be paid by those who drive the most environmentally friendly. So the elephant has been up in this room -- or this hall -- sometimes today. Climate policy states that the elephant in space is the emissions from energy use in China, India and other major developing countries. But what has the government done about the commitment to clean and renewable energy in developing countries? Well, the first years of their reign they dramatically cut off the appropriations for clean and renewable energy deployment in developing countries. Then they've gotten an increase lately, but still they're under it the red-green government granted when they laid out their last budget. So yes, we have to do more – we have to do more both at home and outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1580	Norway is a long-term country with enormous resources, which generations before us have exploited, and which we also need to make better use of in the future. It's soil resources, it's forest resources, it's water, it's minerals, it's oil and gas, and it's fish and other marine resources. If we are to achieve this, we must have a policy for people to live, work and live a good life throughout the country. We need to facilitate those who want to do business, create new jobs based on the rich renewable natural resources that we have across the country, we need to encourage them and make everyday life easier. Take, for example, all those who choose to live in Vardø and commute to work in Båtsfjord – it's about 17 miles. It is of great value to Norwegian society and should not be charged for increased costs, but on the contrary it should be facilitated to facilitate their everyday life and contribute to the exploitation of resources in that part of the country. Or, for example, those who for periods have to commute from Bodø to Brønnøysund because one has work there — yes, they do an important job for the whole of Norway to be put into service. We have to provide it for the future. Instead of a purely symbolic one in this Chamber charging increased taxes on some of those who are just contributing to this, a care must be taken to have a real policy that works to contribute to increased business activity, but also to address climate problems. One of the issues in which there has been some attention in the past, including: in budget debates in Stortinget, is a CO 2 fund for industrial transport. The industry itself is very clear that it wants a model of the NO x fund that has worked, and then it wants a similar model of a CO 2 fund for business transport to bring in new technologies, new solutions. We need it, and we need it fast. Unfortunately, we meet the wall so far in negotiations with the government. It goes out in time, the government relies on another model, that business doesn't believe, that won't cut emissions, and that's not what we need for the future. If we are to solve the climate challenges for the future – yes, we must bet on the forest and increase the logging of forests to a greater extent than is happening today. We must do this through national measures, ranging from fertiliser, plant processing to forest roads, and have a green investment company to benefit from the exploitation of forest resources. But then it is also about the international framework conditions that are, and the negotiations that are with the European Union. I also refer to what the representative Arnstad challenged the state councils in place. I would ask him to come up here and respond to what kind of commitments Norway will now enter into in agreement with the EU on forest, what kind of reference path will be reported by Norway. I expect the Council of State to respond to that before he commits Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1598	The left has led and will continue to fight for the leadership of climate policy. In addition, we will allow the State pension fund to invest abroad in unlisted shares and renewable energy. We have capital and muscles to contribute to that shift – increasing support for research into zero-emission technologies, incredibly important, scaling up schemes such as Enova, Nysnø and Klimasat, all of which are children of the Left, ensure that environmentally friendly purchases are always prioritised in public acquisitions. This is particularly important because the public sector is also such a major buyer and can influence and drive new technologies. It is important that both municipalities, county councils and other public, state actors buy future solutions – and not past energy-intensive solutions. Then we're going to a sector that's been a little bit talkin' about here today. When the Workers' Party and the Centre, with so many rapporteurs, challenge the government that it is the transport industry that will be one solution to the challenges – and the other is the forest industry – one has a large public sector that will also be involved in a large-scale transformation, which will phase out all chemical treatment plants in the water and sewerage sectors over the next 10 to 15 years, and move to biological treatment plants. The working party and the Senterparte are sitting quite quietly in the boat. As far as soil protection is concerned, what rapporteurs are missing the ground? As far as forest protection is concerned, there is little willingness to do so. Nature conservation is also part of the challenge. We also need to organise the technical sector in the municipalities in a different way. We are struggling with the capacity to recycle and recover – we need to have a better structure in the waste sector. The water and sewerage sectors also face major challenges both with climate adaptation and with the introduction of new technologies. We see today that we have too small municipalities, which do not dare take the risk of investing in new technology. Here we must adapt to the new and forward-looking. It's a pure process industry that's also a bit of the answer to the climate challenges we're facing. It is not necessarily appropriate for a debate in a local government to discuss investments at that level, neither in terms of capital nor in terms of technology. With regard to the circular economy, there are challenges in getting the resources that are being diverted into circulation – using them longer and better. It's important. We also need to take a trip to the aid challenges or countries in the south. The challenges in the Arctic are now, but the lowest countries have challenges. The island states of the Pacific are one of the major challenges here. [[The President clubs.]] Then I would like to be in Hedmark and Uppland unemployment, which is the biggest challenge – this to the Sandtrøen representative. [[The President Clubs Again]] [[Laughter]] It's not.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1613	It is completely possible to ask for the word several times.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1618	I'll draw myself another post.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1623	In this post, I thought I'd say a lot about the protection of nature and biodiversity, because I've seen a lot of it in my previous life. I have also seen how much is lost. I was going to recommend some tools the council could use – from their suitcase – to get it to, if he wants to use them, and if he gets permission to use them. I was going to say a little bit about letting nature work for the climate, giving nature a chance to sort things out for himself. Nature binds and stores large amounts of carbon, i.e. that he has to take care of ants, old forests, heaths and cultivated land – and perhaps think about protecting 10 pst. of the forest in 10 years. I was going to say that he should continue to establish an organic base map. It's vital to know what we're ruining. We don't know that now. I've seen all the tiuras disappear – completely disappear. It's hogged out, gone, because we didn't know they were there – i.e. We knew it, but it wasn't mapped and put on national maps. I was going to ask the Council of State to ensure that the government takes care of 20 selected habitat types and 100 priority species. But then I have to say, I'm getting provoked – that's the predator thing, which comes creeping every time. Is it possible to ignore as much facts as within this topic? Is that possible? In practice, there aren't sheep where the wolf flocks are, that is, no loss of sheep there. The losses of sheep we have are mainly caused by individual animals coming from Sweden. This is undeniable. Every scientist knows that. All administrators know that. It is clear that even predators know it. That's the same for the loss of sheep if there are three, four, or seven flocks within the wolf zone. Each of them needs 300 to 1000 km2. I've gone there and limped, I know well about it. No other wolves are allowed to settle where there is revir. It's the best guarantee that there won't be any more in such a territory. Given that we are going to have wolves in Norway – I ignore those who think we should not at all, that we should not take international responsibility, and not take responsibility for natural diversity and ecology – the wolf zone is a perfect place to have them. They take elk, yes – they can even take hunting dogs. Some fear them, yes, but in this way the situation in the zone is quite similar to that in Sweden, where there are so many, many more wolves than in Norway. Not to talk about you guys -- I don't get that much time to say anything about right now, maybe I'll take it in my last minute post. For the robbers in Hedmark had an extraordinary meeting here by day, about the robbers in region 5, where they were to hunt for several yerves. I will explain why this decision was completely wrong – and that the Council of State has to respond in a reasonable way – in my last minute post.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1649	Let me fix it a little bit from instead – I want to underline it. I'm going to admit that things went a little fast here. I was put out a little after the reply from the representative, Silversen, who asked why the Senterpartiet was not in the Klimasat in the municipalities. The centre party is of course a member of the Klimasat in the municipalities, which is why I was expelled. We have an increase in our 20 million budget. kr in relation to what the government provided. Of course, municipalities must take their share and commitment. I will continue a bit where some of my co-representatives have been before me today, namely this with the CO2 fund for business transport. After following that matter for a while and asking some questions about it over time, it is completely incomprehensible to me that the government is unable to agree with the business community on this issue. The excuse is that the government would like this subject to Enova and that it would be contrary to EEA law. The business community wants a stand-alone fund according to the NOx fund model and has solid legal investigations that show that this is manageable under EEA law. Right-wing representatives have been quite high and dark on behalf of climate today. It is even more strange, therefore, that the Right, which traditionally calls itself a business-friendly party, does not support industry's own initiative, the industry's own model, which we know will provide large emission cuts quickly in the sector with the largest emissions in the non-quota sector in Norway. The question then is: is it about considering only the CO2 tax for a fiscal charge, or is there something in principle related to the organisation up against Enova that makes this difficult for the government? So the question is, are you putting principles of organisation ahead of the importance of rapid emissions? It could be useful to clarify. The centre party also increases support for climate research in livestock production by 25 million. kr. There has been a targeted focus on feed development and breeding over 100 years in Norway that has made the Norwegian cow one of the world’s most climate-friendly. We must have food, and the Paris agreement also states that climate objectives should not be at the expense of food supply. Then it's interesting that we have a government with an Environmental Council which is in charge of reducing meat consumption, an agricultural minister who asks us to eat more red meat, and a foreign minister who works to increase customs quotas on imports from Argentina, which has the most climate-friendly cow in the world. It is not a matter of intervention, and it would be interesting to hear the views of the government parties on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1658	I want to go a little further with what concerns forests, because what happens when it comes to logging into the EU climate agreement is at least nothing to laugh at. It can have quite significant consequences, and it can determine whether we can use the forest as part of the climate solution. If a reporter submits reference paths that do not have the full volume of timber that you can take out, we limit our own possibilities. In my opinion, the government does not really have the power to commit the size of a reference path recommended by the Environment Directorate. Both in the Climate Communication and in the Climate Act, there is a broad majority in Stortinget that says how we imagine that the forest will be used in a climate solution. Now the Left is not always on the majority, but the Right, the Advance Party, the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party have been pretty clear on that. It is then that of the eleven reference paths identified by NIBIO and the Environment Directorate, only one can be relevant, and that is the one based on the Swedish rules, not on the rules of the European Commission. In addition to what I said, it will make it difficult to extract from e.g. cultivation of arable land will also make it difficult for us to develop other generation biofuels based on Norwegian resources. We can get into a situation where we will have to pay allowances to the EU to be allowed to develop second generation biofuels. It would be totally paradoxical. Nothing would be better than if the state council today can confirm that this government is going to fall on scenario 11, which is what is based on the Swedish rules for calculating forests, and not on any of the other scenarios. Then we'd feel safe. If I don't have to ask if that's how the Right Party and the Advance Party think it's okay to be tricked by the Left one more time. I must also be allowed to comment on predatory game with a few words. One is that I have respect for the fact that SV believes something different than the Central Party on predatory policy, but the fact is that the Stortinget has adopted a stock target. SV will not deal with it, but Stortinget has adopted a stock target. The increase in the number of REVs has been very strong in the last five years, and we are now far above that stock target. The Government shall relate to what the Storting has decided. I'm still amazed that someone here uses legal arguments. The size went thoroughly through both the Berne Convention and the Nature Diversity Act § 18 in the spring of 2017. We went through all the different paragraphs, both § 18a and § 18c, and we were based on one of the most important legal expertise available on the Berne Convention and the Nature Diversity Act in Norway. They said: There is no problem with using § 18c to get on the stock target. It is fully possible to focus on both local business interests and district interests, and they have the full opportunity to take out the hills they want in the wolf zone.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1669	The Labour Party will have increased value creation of renewable natural resources in Norway. That is why we are, among other things, concerned that we must also renew our forest. We're going to have forestry, it requires that you chop to then renew and plant. That is why we have been committed to it in our alternative state budget. It is also about seeing the job that people do all over the country to get more business and value-added on renewable Norwegian natural resources. In an interesting debate by one of Tolga's local government representatives, there is a deep line of conflict that runs across the Left Party, from what may be left of a few district representatives in the Party and up towards leadership. The local government representative in Tolga points out that our country is built using renewable natural resources, whether it's putting the yarn in the sea, putting the plough in the ground or developing the axe when a shell is in the forest. Then it's like, for example, Now, in the predatory discussion, alarming, because it's a parallel. Trust is broken down in fields by field when people can't be part of the positive value creation that we now need more. When the Stortinget has been very clear that we are going to have an actual population in Norway of between four and six young people a year, it is not possible to explain itself away from it. It's a breach of the Storting's clear decision. That is why the Workers' Party, together with the Centre Party, is now demanding that the government come to Stortinget and explain how this breach can occur. It is increasingly important to understand that the big job we're going to do together as a society, when we're going to get the emissions down and the value creation on renewable natural resources, there has to be a red thread that goes from the job that people do in the country every day through hard work, to the decisions taken in this room. They have proved to be very good in this case, but the government has not fulfilled its parliamentary responsibility and followed it up. Now we need far more humility, if not we're going to see bigger marks. The Bjørgöv Branen just points out in the class struggle today that the matter of government's failure to follow up the stock goal is about something far more than a wolf debate, it's about trust in democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1682	Earlier in the debate, a Norwegian leadership role was called for in terms of greenhouse gas emission reductions. We have a leading role. We have that internationally, and we have that nationally. If we're going to have the opportunity to reach 1.5 degrees and stay below that, it's in seven areas we have to work: One must replace coal as soon as possible. We are increasing the investment in renewable energy, which is international, and we are also increasing towards Norfund. We have to stop all fossil fuels as soon as possible. We are leading the electric car industry in the world, and we are also doing so for heavy transport with the objectives of the national transport plan. A CO 2 fund was requested. We're in conversation with the NHO about a CO 2 fund. We have to make a green shift within the industry. That is why we are strengthening the means to achieve this by increasing research, increasing over many years of the Eco-Technology Scheme, which is by Enova, and we have also put Nysnø in place. We must tackle what is local pollution, the short climate drivers, also what is methane. That is why we support the idea that we should have climate-friendly cities. We're betting on public transport. We've given many instruments to the cities in the last metropolitan period, and it's on the railways. We have to take care of nature. That's why we're increasing global efforts against rainforests, and we have to stop the catastrophic loss of rainforests that we see, but we also have to do more here. We have a decision to care for ants, restore ants. We have forest protection targets that will be a higher sum to next year than what we've had before, but we're also going to run the forest. We need to operate it and use the resources in the forest, also in order to reduce emissions. Yes, we need to refer a reference path to the EU before the New Year, but we need to follow EU legislation. It's also going to have to be done by Sweden. They don't have their own. We will also have a compensation scheme that makes it possible to increase the take-offs also from forestry in Norway. It is not that, even with a consensus on common objectives, the EU is setting policy. We decide the policy, and we decide it ourselves, as do the other countries. We have to build a circular economy. It takes time, but that means reducing food waste is also important. Eating healthier with less meat is also a climate action, and we need to follow up the measures we have to take to reduce the use of plastics and re-use resources in the years to come. We need to build up the carbon capture and storage technology. Therefore, the government continues with the projects at Norcem and Klemetsrud. At the same time, we must also stop the other major crises. We must stop a catastrophic loss of nature and a catastrophic pollution, not least marine pollution.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1717	I understand that reducing tolls was a controversial issue for an SV, but I also said that changing the charging system is not primarily a climate measure. It's just to come up with a debate in advance. You could say that it must be great for a FrP to have a car that is free of charge and for which tolls are not paid. So I know just as well as everyone else in this room, that at some point there will be a change. And then it's the red-green charging policy I'm afraid of, because then I know that at some point you want to charge this car anyway. Then I want to be the leader was and I prefer to pay the fee for other things that benefit the drivers. I also thought that the proposal was relatively moderate because it is only about VAT, as I am aware of all goods, services and products in this country. I also think that I would like to moderate my proposal a little bit in order to meet the representative Haltbrecken. If we use some of the means that we could now take on VAT, on other climate action, more effective climate action, which will reduce CO 2 emissions by more than they are now reduced by: will the representative Haltbrecken continue to be against a change of charges even if it will result in a less CO 2 image than today's system? I also notice that the Norwegian climate debate is getting so narrow in many ways that you measure the climate friendliness of the parties against how much you are willing to subsidize the electric cars. But I also know that the representative Haltbrecken and I have been out a winter night before, and what I did not get a response to, which I took up in my first post, is: What happens to the climate if we cut out Norwegian oil and gas production? A year ago, the representative Haltbrecken and I were at the climate summit in Bonn, and I have to remind you that there was a German MDG politician who wanted to buy Norwegian gas, just to phase out his coal production and do it in a climate perspective. I had hoped that SV could participate in the Progress Party's climate policy, which had led to lower emissions than SV's climate policy. The invitation to clarify the position of Norwegian gas is still standing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1733	The representative Ketil Kjeseth has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1738	It will be 1 minute about the Inland of the representative Sandtrøen, for the representative was in the big and growing differences. Yes, there are income differences in Norway, but they are smaller than in any other country in the world. The challenge is that we have an ageing population, and we see 10, 15 or 20 years in the future, the older population is going to grow even larger, and it doesn't have income. Ergo is increasing the income gap — yes. The challenge for us in Uppland is that we have 1.5 pst. unemployment. In Hedmark I think it's at 1.7 pst. Getting the workforce into the green shift and making that change will be a big challenge because so many of the hands are going into the care sector to an ageing population living in the outermost regions. We're facing a demanding spat. I would like the Workers' Party to spend more time discussing how we can ensure that we can contribute to the green shift with more hands, which we really need, instead of talking about the big and growing differences – because we have both hands and capital if we prioritise properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1745	I would appreciate if the Council of State, instead of using the speaking time to frame an infinite list of the government's efforts, had answered concrete questions that were asked in this room. To CO 2 funds for business transport: we are fully aware that there are ongoing calls with the NHO. What we're asking is the concrete model. The challenge is not that there are conversations. The problem is that the talks do not end because the government does not give up and does not see that it is the business model that needs to be taken into account to provide practical and good solutions that provide emission reductions and that also promote industry in Norway. To the forest reference path: The Council of State says that the policy is our own. Then he says in the same breath that we have to comply with EU legislation. Yes, what is the concrete meaning of the reference path envisaged by the Council of State to report and commit Norway within 13 days? What does that mean? What kind of reference track is the commitment of the Council of State on behalf of Norway? Can the Council of State confirm that path 11 is being chosen, or does the Council of State consider that path 11 cannot be chosen because it is not going to comply with EU legislation? It is incredibly important to choose a reference path to ensure that the forest can still be used for increased harvesting and to use the forest as a biofuel resource. So to predators, who have been a major topic in the debate today. I was at the Bjørkelange this morning and met several of those who have been preparing for months to follow up the decisions of the robbers, among others. on withdrawals from the Manganese flock. Once again, the predators are being overrun. Once again, the bulk of the population is being tried by the government. It is not the government's intention to sit and interpret whether the decision of the majority of the population and a looting settlement are in line with the law on natural diversity and in line with the Berne Convention. These assessments have multiplied in size and the majority of population is also clear that four to six young people per year are now far above it. That's why what's happening now is a clear breach of the looting game agreement. The local predators are being run over again, and it is therefore necessary – as the Central Party and the Labour Party have announced in this debate – that we will have a separate statement on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1759	Now the representative from the top left is saying that we have hands and capital. Yes, we do. We have smart heads, too. The smart minds must be used in renewable investment, and the capital must be spent on green investment and on disadvantaged people, not on continued investment in oil and gas. It binds the workforce there, and we have to bet on better distribution, precisely so that the climate action we are doing does not hit the disadvantaged. I'm sure it'll hit from there. I am also concerned about the climate agreement that has been concluded, both because there can still be double counting on quota policy, and because the ambitions of each country now govern whether we succeed or not. And then I'm not safe with the Norwegian government, and I'm not safe with other governments either, so that's quite scary what we have in front of us. So the left is up and talking about the municipal sector. That's all right, but why does the Left vote against giving more money to the states so that they can invest more in elves or public transport? That was against the Left on Friday. The fact that the local authority sector must have competence to ensure both biodiversity, nature, soil protection and, in particular, its climate responsibility, was proposed in the Stortinget on Friday – the Left voted against. It's not that good to do this if you don't have very high and good competence in the municipal sector, which can provide politicians with a really professional basis. There are plenty of people who pressure local politicians and regional politicians to develop that is not climate friendly, that take food soils, and that destroy the planning that could enable climate goals to be achieved. That competence must be in place, it is not there, but unfortunately the left votes against. We are going to deal with another matter here today, about regional reform, where SV has called for us to be able to give the county councils a responsibility for spatial planning, so that we can achieve the objectives of future transport by foot, collective or bicycle. But it doesn't want the left. The left makes such a strange region – the Gulf, where Oslo is not – and they don't even want this to be investigated. This could be a task that needs to be seen in a larger context, where one is just taking care of the possibility of doing this without coming into conflict with neither biodiversity, climate, soil protection nor nature protection. But the left has unfortunately said no to that, and it says well that you are more interested in sitting in government than taking care of these values.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1770	The representative Arne Nävra has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1775	I promised to come back to one species, to the yerven, for which Norway has a very special responsibility. The Rovvilt topic in Hedmark will very much hunt you in forest areas in the lowlands – where there are no sheep. Is that possible! It was very good that the Council of State responded to this complaint about the fall of 20 yews in the harvest, reduced the number to 16 and would trap you where there were priority sheep areas. It was just supposed to be missing. Obviously, it makes sense if the level of conflict is going down, because the yerve doesn't do anything to damage the coniferous forest where it's not sheep. When these 16 were shot, the wild game subject came together again at the emergency meeting – now, just now – and once again adopted a new quota on several animals. A new complaint was sent today to the department, and I take the view that Elvesuen is right again in this case, which he has rightly taken a very good view of so far. I understand that he cannot comment today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1780	I want to comment a little bit on the comments that come, especially from our climate partners. I think that if other nations had followed this debate, they would have wondered very much what we really disagree about, but I understand that here it's just going the farthest. We're a committee called energy and the environment, and that means that we're going to discuss a little bit of environment, and we're going to discuss a little bit of energy. We're probably in a situation in this country where access to energy and the situation we have in this area are taken for granted. Billions of dollars have led us to the society we have today, we take it completely for granted, and there have certainly been proposals that our oil fund should stop investing in oil. An environmental debate and a climate debate are important to take, but when one gets more or less accusations that it is unprofessional, and one is not taken seriously when one has an alternative policy, I react to it. When emissions come to China, what does cutting in Norway help? Climate challenges are international; they are global. Then we also have to be involved in working to get to international agreements that make everyone involved. The fact that there is only going to be harm in Norway does not help anyone. So with the policy being pursued, it is important to limit world access to energy. Then I just want to remind you that today the energy mix is created by the sun and wind, for approx. 2 pst. Then my question becomes: is it easier to meet the challenges that our society is facing, with less energy, or with more energy? Cheap energy means cheap products and cheap goods. Animal energy means expensive goods. Is this what we're going to meet the world's poor? We also experience fossils, of course, while the same parties fight against the establishment of both water and wind because it challenges Norwegian nature. You really want to go back to the horse and ride. The Progress Party will meet the challenges of using surplus from the North Sea and Norwegian Socket for technology development, use it on CCS, an example of a technology that can be crucial for future climate change emissions and contribute to international agreements where emissions are real.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1791	I will first be allowed to clarify a misunderstanding. I didn't accuse the Senter party of not joining the Climate Act. I just asked the Center Party, which usually strikes a blow for the municipalities, whether they are comfortable being the party that gives the least to the Climate Act in next year's budget. I promise that I would spend much more time defending the climate rate if someone proposed to cut the system completely. At the same time, I will make a little wish for the next year. Many have talked about Christmas wishes and Christmas gifts, but I want to make a New Year's wish: I hope this debate next year is more about how we use our resources, and not least about how we can reuse them again. Circular economy will be the theme of a strategy that comes from the government. I hope that it can really get that debate going. Circular economy may sound a little strange and dry, but the essence itself is basically good. That's getting more out of the resources we've already extracted. It's about so much more than waste. It is about the development of smart production lines and cross-sectoral cooperation that sees that they can find values among each other. It's not always natural for a fisherman to cooperate with a healthy person, but a circular economy can be a solution. It's about renting, subscriptions and smart sharing systems. Ultimately, it's about how I as a consumer can make choices that make my carbon footprint here in the world a little smaller, that I can buy a dress made from materials that have been used in the past, instead of buying one that's brand new, and that I can choose products based on how they're produced, and whether they're more climate friendly than others. That's why I'm looking forward to the strategy coming. Circular economy is a natural continuation of the idea of a sustainable policy and taking care of the resources we have. I hope 2019 will be the year when it will have a natural place in the climate debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1804	I can understand why some people can be told about the climate debate, because when you hear the Workers' Party talk and then see their alternative budget, and see how miles apart is between what they say they're doing, and what they're actually doing, you can't help but be amazed. They boast that they have delivered a climate budget in their alternative budget this year. Where did they get those numbers from? They got them from the government. There's nothing going on about reporting climate emissions for the first time, and we're doing it because the civil parties have said it's necessary. There is nothing new or unique about the Labour Party’s budget – rather the opposite. I have also noticed that it has been more than usual from the Workers' Party who have participated in the climate debate today. That's good, because we know that this is a theme that usually hasn't been the heart of the Workers' Party. Some have also shown my home municipality, Oslo. There we saw how the travel agency was out there and said that you should have five climate tips for all major cities, because that's what we're doing here in Oslo, she said. Points 3, 4 and 5 of the five climate trends were national policies — that was government policy. The centre party has also wanted to talk about climate. It's new for this magnification period. We hear, among other things: on the CO2 fund, for which the Workers' Party is also involved. First of all, I would like to say that this majority strengthens the appropriations for conversion in heavy transport. The Enova appropriations are at a historically high level and are to be used, inter alia: on this. The surprising thing about the debate on CO2 funds is that the Workers' Party and the Centre will reduce the polluter pays principle by jumping into a proposed model and simply accepting it and taking it too well. This is precisely why you have conversations with the NHO – to find a model that will be best for both emissions, to preserve the polluter pays principle, and so that the tax exemptions will not be so high that you lose the CO2 tax as a climate change agent. In the case of forests, it may be worth recalling that the Centre Party was involved in the Climate Change Communication where we decided to connect Norwegian climate policy with the EU. When talking about the legislation, it is important to remember that Norway will receive compensation here. This is also duly covered in the majority comments in the climate resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1819	There has been a lot of good input into this debate, and there has been a lot of debate about climate. That's good. But we need to establish that the climate problem is global and needs to be solved globally. This is why Norway is a driving force in international climate change work. Our contribution to the Paris Agreement is based on our continuing to have an active petroleum policy. In this picture, Norwegian gas is important. Norwegian gas allows a switch from coal to gas in Europe, as in the United Kingdom. Such a change results in rapid, large and cheap emission reductions in coal-using countries. Gas is also excellent in interaction with varying energy from sun and wind. This makes gas a solution in EU climate policy. In combination with CCS, long-term gas can make hydrogen an important part of the solution to the climate challenges. The representative, Karin Andersen, said that oil and gas are dangerous. No, if you use the gas for what it's very suitable for, it's not dangerous. If they are approx. eight million homes and dwellings in the United Kingdom had not received the gas from Norway, the alternative would have been coal for heating. The English are a bit like us: they're nice people who like the good life, but they're not going to sit with teasing in the winter to keep the heat. They're going to find other energy sources. It's close to believing that coal will be that energy carrier. Then I would like to thank you for a good debate. Merry Christmas, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1832	Thank you for that. It might have been a little early for this hall, because here's probably more going to experience a winter night together beyond the evening. But thank you anyway. The representative, Marit Arnstad, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1840	I'm quite worried about what the state council says about forest, because if you report a reference path that's not number 11 and in line with Swedish rules, you're in breach of what the Stortinget said about the use of forest as a climate solution. I have to say that if the Right Party and the Advance Party intend to accept it, I am very concerned. The compensation scheme, some of which refers to here, will only apply to managed forest, it will not apply to the other categories. What I mention as an example is that we can pay allowances to the EU to be allowed to grow arable land in a country that has 3 pst. cultivated land, standing firm. When the representative of Halleland is concerned that we must see the climate struggle globally, I would say that the Progress Party must follow up on what is happening in Norway and in its own government. We can be writing off forests as part of the climate solution. The Halleland representative should focus on that. I would just like to say to the representative Heggelund that when I hear him attack the Workers' Party and the Centre's Group on CO 2 funds, it all sounds like a very good application to the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1852	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1857	The representative Meininger Saudland was up and tried to explain why the Progress Party would make zero-emission cars more expensive and thus less competitive in the fight against fossil cars. That is exactly what is the problem with Meininger Saudland’s proposal – the electric car will become weaker in competition with petrol and diesel cars, because the price of Porsche Cayenne does not want the Progress Party to do anything about it. Then the representative Meininger Saudland asks me what I think about the Green Party in Germany's position on Norwegian gas. Well, I'm not a member of the Green Party in Germany, and they're going to be allowed to answer for themselves. However, we know that the European Commission has put forward plans for a strong commitment to renewable energy and energy efficiency improvement, and we see that the need for gas to the European Union is falling sharply. So there's the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1864	The representative of Nils Kristen Sandtrøen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1869	It was the representative Kjeseth who had a post for me and really just reinforced the whole point and made a big point, and that's the ageing population in parts of District Norway. The answer to this challenge is one word: industrial policy. That's why I've been talking about industrial policy in both of my posts here today. And not enough – we have a representative proposal going on, to be discussed here just over the New Year, on safe food production on Norwegian resources, which will lead to jobs throughout Norway. Actually, it keeps quoting a former Left Member who is the Vice-President of Engerdal now, and who was in and out of Engerdal Left last year, because he is one of those who have known centralisation policy, the increasing differences and lack of industrial policy on the body: ‘It became quite unthinkable to have to campaign for the autumn for a party that talks in the middle of my village.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1879	I think the representative Stefan Heggelund has a map that says that we should always tell him that the Workers' Party has just started with climate and environmental policies. So, as mentioned earlier in this Chamber, Gro Harlem Brundtland was the world's first environmental protection minister. Many years later, she was at the forefront of our common future and gave very much of the tone for the international climate work that has come later. Jens Stoltenberg initiated the forest campaign, which is quite unique in the world, and which this government follows up, which is excellent. The roots of the modern electric car policy that Norway is leading, i.e. the first idea of exemption, also came under a Workers' Party government. It is, to say it carefully, somewhat exaggerated that this is something we have come up with now. But it is true that we say clearly that climate policy must be the framework of all policies, and that a responsible governing party would be irresponsible if one did not try to rule within the framework of nature. We know a lot more about that now than you did just a few decades ago. I also want to clarify another claim that has sometimes come today, that the Workers' Party's alternative state budget and the emissions budget have been copied from the government. It's wrong, because in Prop. 1 S for 2018–2019 from the Ministry of Climate and Environment, it is explicitly stated on page 295 that the production provided by the Environment Directorate is not a matter of government. So it's something you've rendered as a kind of attachment from the Environment Directorate. As we wanted to make an overview of the emission impact of our policies in the most realistic way possible, we used the best professional environment that is, the Environment Directorate, and the calculations that they have made, but we have also made clear choices about something that is policy, which we want to implement, unlike the government. This was not done by the government in the climate announcement, nor by the state budget. That is why we do not have a specific plan. I want to say a little about what has been up about Norwegian gas. Statsrådet Freiberg correctly states that, now and in the near future, there is no doubt that Norwegian gas has been involved in the major conversion of the United Kingdom, which has had a very severe cut in climate emissions. That's because Britain has waged a war against coal, which has largely succeeded, and in just a few years, perhaps in 2025, coal is completely out of the mix. The big winner is wind power, which has now really taken off, and of which Britain has become a great user. What I want to warn you about is that what you see today is going to be there forever. I believe that the next round – both in British policy, whatever happens to it after Brexit, and in the EU – will also greatly reduce fossil imports. Therefore, you should not project from the current situation, which is correctly described, that this will necessarily be there in 30 years. That is what I mean by – and which I invited to today – a discussion about how we see the Climate Risk Committee's recommendations against future, further investments in Norwegian oil and gas.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1892	The President will only state that the first Minister for Climate and Environment was Olav Gärevoll, and we have learned that today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1897	A few words at the end: nature conservation has been little mentioned in this debate. It's a shame, because it's the second major environmental challenge the world is facing. The loss of biodiversity is as great a challenge as the climate challenge. Nor have we received a powerful budget from this government in this area. The working party wants more. We want a bigger focus on environmental monitoring, so we know what to take care of. We want to invest more in the Species Database, which takes care of the endangered species. We want a bigger bet on marine litter, because here too we have to clean up our oceans. Several people have talked about forest protection. It is very good that there is a cross-political agreement that forest protection is important, and that the voluntary protection scheme works well. It is a paradox, however, that for the first time in many years you will have a cut in forest protection under this government. Now there have been increases since 2011, but this year – with a Left Council – there was a cut. International work has been discussed. International work is very good. I pay tribute to every penny Norway can spend in the world, because it's out in the world we can really be in and make a big difference by investing in renewable energy in developing countries. The increases that are now coming are coming after five years of cutting from Børge Burnde. Today it boasts of a historic bet, but there are still two thirds of what we were on five years ago. You'd think we'd gotten a lot higher than where we were five years ago, but that's the story of this government. They run a jojo policy where they cut one year to boast of an increase in the second year. With the cuts we now get from the Americans, it is especially important that Norway does not do the same. The time for great renewable cut from today's government must be over when we see what the Americans are doing. When we hear Stefan Heggelund, it sounds like the rest of the room has invented the climate problem five minutes ago. It is with respect to report nothing but customs. Climate policy goes like a red thread through the history of the Workers' Party: from Trygve Bratteli, who helped to create the first Environment Ministry in the world, to Gro Harlem Brundtland, who became the world's climate minister, and to Jens Stoltenberg, who became the UN Special Envoy for Climate Change. I'm proud of what my party has done, but I don't think we've done enough, because the climate challenge is so big and fundamental that no one can say they've done enough. That is why I am very concerned when I hear how satisfied the Right-wing politicians are today. So while the world's on the edge of the dot, the Right says that we're doing more than enough here at home in Norway, and when everyone else is criticizing us, it's all the others who haven't understood, because we're doing more than enough. The truth is, however, that no new initiatives are being taken. It is directed towards not achieving the 2020 targets. We don't have our own targets for 2030. This will probably be a lost opportunity for the climate. But the Workers' Party is not going to relax. There will be a new opportunity in January, as the 37 proposals from the Workers' Party and SV will be discussed. Then the position has the opportunity to vote for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1914	I wrote in my previous post about Norway's climate action, so I'm not going to repeat it now, but when it comes to the issue of forest protection, it's that the activity in forest protection is increasing to next year. We're maintaining the sum of 444 million. NOK, and then there is a commitment authority that means that the total sum is SEK 795 million. kr. It's never before been more activity than it's going to be next year. Then there were some comments about the Left and District. Fortunately, to reach the 1.5 degree report, a lot of innovation is required, work is required, and business development is required across the country. If we see what's happening now, with both investing in biogas, what's happening on advanced biofuels, what's happening along the coast of maritime industries, and zero emissions in green shipping – it's a lot of activity taking place on the basis of the environmental policy pursued. So there were some questions. The representative, Andersen, was concerned with double counting. However, although the market part of the legislation of the Paris Agreement was suspended, the Paris Agreement states that double counting is not legal, so that it is kept. So it was repeatedly asking questions about CO2 funds. There are conversations going on between the government and the NHO, and then I can't refer to the result of it, what it's going to be, until we have a consensus. But it's known what is the government's starting point, and it's known what is the NHO's starting point. Now the calls are in progress. With regard to the reference path – and that is the reference path for managed forest that has to be notified before 1 January – NIBIO and the Environment Directorate are now looking at it, and they are also looking into the discussion that is taking place in Sweden. But it is clear that when we agree on a system in the EU, we will have to follow the legislation, and we will. In the end, we had three complaints about the killing of wolf flocks yesterday, and when we make our assessment of the decision on that, we follow the decisions of the Stortinget: the decision of the Stortinge on the Law on Nature Diversity, the decision of the Stortinge to accede to the Berne Convention, and the major decisions that we have otherwise. I would also like to thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1934	It's a little amazing when you hear the representatives from the government parties talk about green conversion, because it seems like they've learned some speech points, that the communications department in the department says that now there's much more greening than before, that there's less oil dependence in the Norwegian economy now than before. But the truth is, it's the opposite. The oil-corrected government budget deficit this year is higher than in 2013. We're more oil dependent now than we were when Erna Solberg became prime minister. That's the fact. Seeing the investments in the Norwegian economy next year, the estimated investments in the oil sector are expected to increase by 20 billion, according to the SSB. kr. That's about. as much as the entire investment in the Norwegian mainland industry. Only the increase in the oil and gas sector is, according to the SSB, approximately. 20 B.C.E. And then the council says we're less oil dependent. We're more oil-dependent. It's not like we've converted the Norwegian economy. It is the oil and gas sector and the housing sector that are the two major drivers of the Norwegian economy. It's a fact, and it's time for the government to start talking about what's real, not what's party speakers. When I hear Stefan Heggelund from Right before today, it seems as if he has forgotten that Right is a party that has faith in private property rights, that has faith in local government, and that has faith in the individual. One of the strong speakers, Gunnar Gundersen, wrote on Facebook yesterday: ‘There is no ideological backbone left. Everything can be negotiated away. Respect for individuals, property rights and democratic decision-making bodies is gone.» That's what people saw yesterday. Point one, ownership: it is clear that when there is as much wolf load as it has now become in large parts of the wolf zone, the possibility to engage in economic activity goes beyond that. There's a clear breach of what the Right Traditional has stood for. Point two, democratic decision-making bodies: there has been a great process here, both in the Storting and in the regional predators who have said that the number of wolves should be reduced because it creates such a heavy burden for the individual. But no, when Ola Elvestuen sits in his office, he doesn't take it into account; he gives the bluff in the local decision-making bodies, overruns them and overruns the individuals. That is why there will be such a high level of conflict in the wolf debate: that, over and over again, when it comes to the department, people in the local community, individuals, private property rights, regional decisions and local democracy will not be taken into account. I hope that the Progress Party and the Right are starting to find their roots in the belief in the locality, not just in central government, because the decision that was made yesterday is a new violation of the local population in the municipality by municipality, and it's going to be a lot of trouble if you don't start listening to those who actually know the reality, not just those who are in the ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1950	Now we're starting to approach that part of the debate where we're allowed to sum up a little bit. I think this has been a debate that shows very clearly that this hall is aware of the serious backclothes we have. The problem is that today we do not have the policy to achieve our goals and even to be able to strengthen them, so that we can respond to the UN recommendation now – which is not to cut 40 pst. By 2030, but that is that the whole world is going to cut its emissions by 50 pst. during the next 12 years, by 2030. And in that scenario, it may well be that Norway should also do more than just the very least we want, because that we can do more, also makes other countries not cut so much that it goes beyond, for example. welfare. Then I have come to realize that some of us have been in Germany and have heard from the greens there that they are also there concerned with environmental policy. It should not surprise anyone that a country that is not self-sufficient in energy and wants to have the least possible emissions wants to use gas instead of coal. I could have told you that before the committee went to Germany. The question is what Germany wants in 2030, in 2040, in 2050. For the debate we have on the future of the Norwegian oil and gas sector, it is not about the emissions that are coming today and tomorrow. Even the Green Party acknowledges that we have signed contracts on the base, which will continue to stand there and go – and as long as it is profitable, they will do so. But we have to have a policy from this room that rigs Norway for the future we're going to enter. It's not about having a policy for more investment on the base anymore, but about making sure that the actors on the base get a safe closure, and that those who work on the base and in neighbouring industries face a secure future with safer jobs than those we provide today. The Minister of Oil and Energy refers to the IEA's estimate that the world will need 70 million barrels of oil per day in 2040, and that it is necessary to find new oil to meet demand. But what the minister reasonably skips is that this 2040 scenario breaks the 1.5-degree target. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change is crystal clear: if we are to keep heating below 1.5 degrees, global greenhouse gas emissions must be halved by 2030 and be net zero by 2050. And the climate risk committee that the government reduced, and that delivered its recent report, clearly shows that the more we succeed in climate policy, the worse the Norwegian economy will be if we continue to have the same policy as we had in the 1970s, 1980s and, in particular, the 1990s – a policy for more investment. That time is over. We have to be happy about what we've been given, and then we have to think about new things. We have to do it while we still think about the ones that are here and now.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1960	First of all, Mr Nävra and Mr SV: I would first like to say that I respect Mr SV's view on predatory policy. But we're strictly obliged to follow up on the pillaging game deal we've adopted by a broad majority in this big deal. The two predators the representative Nävra mentioned were you and wolf, and it is precisely these two predators that are far above the target today. That SV will not recognise the work of predators and thorough assessments in these matters, I think that I am a little confident about the good job the students actually do. The representative Nävra also says that neither yours nor yours has done any particularly great damage. Then I would advise the representative to go out to the farmers who have spent much of the summer looking for dead and injured animals. So to the forest: I have to say that I am not reassured by some of the Councils' answers to the questions of the Central Party regarding the negotiations with the EU that are currently taking place. This can have major consequences for the forest, both for industry and not least for the forest as part of Norway’s climate change solution. The centre party has not disputed that we have had to follow a code. Yes, we will have to follow EU legislation, but the question is which reference path to report. There is only one alternative of the eleven that have been investigated, that is acceptable, and my question is whether the government will report it, and whether the Right Party and the Advance Party will follow the Council of States up to it. There is a simple question that the Council of State should be able to answer yes or no.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1971	The Council of State Elvesuen was in the pulpit here and made clear what kind of assessments had been used to try out the predators. I thought clearly he said that he followed Storting’s decision when he made that assessment. Then I strongly recommend to the Council of State, which is the Council of State responsible for this field, to take a little look at the looting game settlement. It says that we will have two to four young wolves in Norway, and today we have twice as many. Is it the case that the Council of State has not read the looting game agreement, or is it the case that he contests the stock estimate that is – that we actually have twice as much wolf in Norway as the Stortinget has said we can tolerate? The size has been clear that off-takes are also to be carried out within the zone. It shall be carried out in order to try to reach the stock target. The Stortinget has said quite clearly about this. This is a mockery of democracy, it is zero respect for the decision of the Storting, and it is also a mockery of the robbers. The size has said that predators will have a clear role to play in this administration – now they are once again being overrun. Not least, it is a mockery of the local population, who has lived with the serious consequences of a doubling of the wolf population for several years now, and now their eyes hope that they might get a little more viable everyday life, and then they feel that the majority of the Great Britain is being overrun in this way. So I really have to ask the Council of State: Has he not read the rapture agreement, or does he not agree with the stock estimates that are? Does he agree that we have twice as much wolf as the Stortinget said we should actually have?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1978	The representative Espen Barth Eide has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1983	I want to build on the good posts of the representative of Bastholm now and say that in assessing our climate policy commitments, the climate risk committee's suspension and the oil and gas sector, it is an important factor that we have not talked about so much today, but that should be mentioned, and that is the investments in carbon capture and storage. I just want to stress how incredibly important it is to succeed in that bet, which is a place where Norway has gone ahead, and where we can hardly expect anyone else to do it for us. We're going to get other countries, but we're going to have to keep the lead sweater. This is important in view of climate policy objectives, but I also want to say in this Chamber that it is also important in view of the future of the oil and gas sector. Because maybe a lot of the answers are just there on how to, for example. can convert natural gas to hydrogen – if you combine it with CCS, you can deliver a clean product, partly with existing infrastructure. So people should be concerned about whether they get into it by a desire to comply with the Paris Agreement, or to take care of the jobs in oil and gas. But we have to move forward, and we have to make an investment decision when the time comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1990	As far as the reference path is concerned, I think I have responded several times, that we now have an agreement with the EU on forest management. We're going to hand it in by December 31, and of course we'll follow the rules of the system we're joining. But there is a process with NIBIO and the Environment Directorate, which also looks to the discussion that is going to be delivered at the same time in Sweden and other countries. Otherwise, this is a budget debate, and in the case of robberies, there is 15 million in the budget for the next year. kr in increase. There is an increase in FKT measures, and there is an increase in SNO. A decision was taken yesterday concerning the review procedure. It is clear that when we follow the policy of predatory game, what we follow, the decision of the Stortinge, it is a decision to accede to the Berne Convention, it is a decision on the Nature Diversity Act, it is the two predatory game likes, it is the majority decision on the wolf, and it is the majority decision on the wolf, clarifying § 18c under the Nature Diversity Act. Yesterday’s assessment takes into account § 18c. Decommissioning of the Decommissioning of the Decommissioning Party has been authorised, given the importance of society.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e1997	The representative Stefan Heggelund has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2002	I am not an official of the Ministry of Finance; I am a very common idealist for better climate policy. What surprises me about the Workers' Party and the Centre's CO2 fund, is that they want to go for a model where neither big business nor government can make any concrete demands that the fund's funds should be used in a specific way. I think that's nice. Nor is it true that the government parties and the majority are self-satisfied. That is why we say that climate policy should be strengthened every year. If one needs any indication that climate policy is a new prayer for the Workers' Party, it is only to look at the proposals made by the representative of Aukust. There you can see that the government is already working on most of the proposals. Merry Christmas, you say to it. To the representative Espen Barth Eide, I can only say that we're going to keep adding numbers to our budgets that the Labour Party can cut and paste into its own alternatives, and then call it its own idea.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2011	Actually, I have been listening to the debate with interest, and I think there have been many important contributions on the future, the climate, the major challenges. I think, not least, that what our main speaker, Espen Barth Eide, has said about the climate visions of the Workers' Party and the climate concretisations contained in that proposal have been important. But I had to take the floor when I heard State Council Elvesuen talk about him following up the Stortinge's decision on the wolf management. It's with respect to not reporting correctly. I was in those negotiations, and there was quite an intense mood between the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party. Ola Elvesuen was never part of those negotiations. He was strongly opposed to the conclusions. But the conclusions of the big business were very clear. They decided that there should be a wolf management of four to six young people per year as an actual figure. That was the basis for what the four parties agreed on, and it was very clearly underlined in the decision to roll out. When the Council of State then allows itself to use this pulpit to say that he is following up the decision of the Storting in the case of wolf management, it is with respect to report error. That's not right. This was a very clear conclusion from the four parties, and how Stortinge's decision was to understand was also followed in rounds with the then state council Helgesen. The weekend admitted it after the clarifying rounds. I think it is quite serious that a government council at the bottom of a debate actually says so clearly that he follows up a decision taken in the Stortinget, which he certainly does not follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2022	I asked some questions in my previous post that the Council of State did not respond to at all. Has the Council come to realize that the stock target is a total of four–six juveniles if we count on the frontier wolf? Or is it that the Council of State does not consider the estimate of at least 50 pst. more, as real? Does he mean we don't have more than four or six young people this year? So are we down on the stock target? If we're not down on the stock target and he accepts that we have too much wolf in Norway, it's a breach of the collapse decision when it's not worked effectively by the government to try to get down to the stock target. When we have a population of four to six, that means we're going to be within the framework of four to six young people. That doesn't mean we can have eight to ten to twelve one year, and then all of a sudden we're going down to one or two years later. I want a clarification from the Council of State: Is it such that he does not accept the stock estimate underlying the discussion, or is it such that he totally ignores the decision of the Storting that we should go down to four or six young wolves in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2029	The representative Ole André Myhrvold has spoken twice in the past and gets the word for a brief remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2034	I didn't really intend to take the floor in the predatory matter, but still: is it that you are now putting in place a tour scheme for people living in predatory areas – that last year there were no social burdens of importance in the plaintiffs, while Hobøl and Man have to wait for a while because they haven't lived with this conflict for long enough? Is it true that the government believes that there is a sort of rotational arrangement in Stortinget's looting game settlement, so that you can juggle with which parts of the population are going to have this burden? In that case, I wonder when it's Hobøl's turn, and when it's Man's turn.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2040	It is good that the Council of State has signed up for my post, for one of the major issues that is now emerging here is whether the government intends to report one of the EU's reference paths to enable us to continue to operate forestry in this country. Several of the representatives have challenged the State Council directly whether it is the government that intends to notify it. The Council of States' response to this question in the previous round was that, in consultation with NIBIO and, where appropriate, in the light of what other countries report, it should consider what to report. The question is simple: does the government intend to report a reference path to the EU, which means that it will be possible to operate forestry in this country in the future without having to pay to the EU in order to have that possibility? Is it the case that when the Council of State refers to other countries, it is in the light of the agreement that the Nordic Council had here a few weeks ago that a common Scandinavian approach to the EU is to be taken in relation to forests, because one has a different cultural and historically contingent understanding of forestry in the Nordic countries than one necessarily has in the EU? I have to repeat the question asked by several of the representatives: Will the government report a reference path to the EU that allows us to continue to have profitable forestry here in this country, or is the government more concerned with reporting on other paths to achieve some goals that there is a discussion about how to use Norway's green transition assumptions to reach, or does the government believe that the paths that have been explored, namely the one path of the eleven, or are there other pathways that you intend to consider? Then I have to say at the very end, in the light of the representatives of Bastholm and Barth Eide, that we are facing a need to take drastic action in this country. Now even the Progress Party has agreed. But what most people are asking for is the willingness to see the whole country and the whole country when you're going to use the tools you have to have in place to reach the green transition. Forest is one of the prerequisites, and the Council of State is unable to respond to whether he intends to report a reference path that allows the use of green carbon for green conversion. It's really alarming.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2051	Even with an agreement with the European Union, we are the ones who decide which policies we should pursue for forests. We now have to report a reference path, and this is a work on calculations ongoing with NIBIO and the Environment Directorate. There will also be a compensation scheme within the framework of the legislation, and I believe that it will provide good room for growth in Norwegian forest industry. In the case of decisions taken yesterday, they are individual decisions. If the new complaint comes to the next year, they will also be a simple decision with an assessment in the individual case. We're going to follow all of the Storting's decisions. The grandma is also the legislator. It has adopted the Nature Diversity Act. It has adopted Section 18(c) and Section 18(b) of the Nature Diversity Act, which applies in this case. Although the population is four to six young people, the figures in the last year show that there were only ten and a half young people. Then two of the flocks were taken out, so that was eight and a half young. The figures for what we know so far this year show that there are five and a half young people. Expected so far is six and a half young. Yes, there may be more, but you want to know more about it as it gets snowy and you get the opportunity to figure it out. Whether there is much or close to the stock target of four to six young people, the individual is assessed, but in appeal proceedings, there is nevertheless a need to provide a justification for withdrawals within the wolf zone. We follow the two-part objective, within which there must be a low threshold outside and a higher threshold, also according to §§ 18(c) and 18(b). For the Stagås team, it has been assessed that according to the Stortings clarifications in the spring of 2017, there is scope for withdrawals according to section 18(c).
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2060	Yesterday I had some confidence again that the Council of State would, for once, choose to follow up the decision of the Storting, until it became clear that it was obviously an illusion that I should have understood and seen. With the Left in the Ministry of Climate and Environment, wolves are not taken out in line with the wishes of the Storting. I think it's amazing that the Council of State can stand here and say he's following the decision of the Storting. He doesn't. The decision is that there will be between four and six young people each year, including Heal Norse revir and border revir – it is far more than that. The size has determined that you can take out wolves to get down to the stock target, and all professional assessments suggest that the wolf population will still be viable even if you take out wolves to get down to that stock target. Hasn't the Council of State Elvesuen learned from the disasters we've seen in the North East Valley, on Hadeland, on Toten and other attacks? Didn't Elvesuen learn from the fact that there's almost no sheep left in the wolf zone? I think it's quite ironic when State Secretary Hamar says in News of the Day eighteen that the loss rates for sheep are going down, so it's going fine. But it's no wonder that the sheep loss rates go down when there's no sheep left. When there are no sheep left in the wolf zone that the wolf can take, the loss figures of course go down. The Elvessuen stressed that this is a budget debate, and that some funds have been put into the budget for robbers. But does the Council of State think that it helps those farmers who lose animals and suffer great financial and personal losses without being replaced? Does he think it helps those who live with the wolf around the house wall every day and are afraid to send the kids off the farm on the school road? Or does he think it helps the many who have experienced the loss of a hunting dog, and the hunters who can no longer hunt a loose dog within the wolf zone because there is such a great risk that the bikes are taken? It affects well-being, security and culture. And what would Elvesuen actually say about the many hundred species of plants that depend on grazing landscapes to survive, a grazing landscape that is directly threatened by the wolf? For grazing land, in fact, fallows are laid, the landscape is changed when the wolf takes up and causes agriculture to be laid down and the sheep to leave. It's a paradox that the Left should take over. The wolf actually suppresses other biodiversity. It has to happen something. We can no longer live with a population far beyond the decision of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2073	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 2-4.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2089	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2098	As the rapporteur on the matter, I would first like to thank the Committee on good cooperation. I would also like to thank Mr Sameting's representatives who met the Committee on 25 October for a good dialogue and input into the vote we are debating today. Norway is established in the territory of two peoples, Samer and Nordmen, where both peoples have the same right and the same requirement to develop their culture and language. It is laid down in the Constitution that ‘the State authorities are required to facilitate the security and development of their language, culture and society by the Sami people’. The pooling manages significant responsibilities and significant appropriations. In 2017, a total allocation of 475 million was granted. kr. It was an increase from 2016 when the allocation was 437 million. kr. The Communication underlines the desire of the Sameting to ensure that the appropriations for the Sameting should be collected in fewer budget lines, with a main heading on the chapters of the Ministry of Local Affairs and Modernisation. This has now been implemented from the 2019 budget. The fragmented budgetary model that existed in the past is a problem for the Sameting, and the Committee notes that this year’s model was well received by the Sametinget. The change is due to the desire of the Sameting to have a budget model that will give them more room for priority to co-policy action within a given budgetary framework. I am pleased that the Sametinge's wishes have been met. The message calls for clarification on the Southern Sami museum and cultural centre at Snåsa. That's something that's been wanted for decades. The centre party is pleased that in the state budget for 2019 there is an allocation for new construction to Saemien Sijte. The Centre has an impact on the conservation, research and dissemination of Southern Sami culture. The Central Party now expects the government to follow up on the appropriations for 2020 and 2021, in order to ensure completion in 2021. Sami languages are under pressure. It is therefore important that the language area is one of the areas with the greatest focus in the work of the Sameting. In October 2016, the Sami language selection provided its public investigation, which was named Heart Language. The merger has dealt with the situation and states in its decisions that emphasis needs to be placed on strong language efforts towards children. Furthermore, it has been decided that more public spaces need to be established for language revitalisation and that the State is obliged to implement positive specific measures. The heart language is an important work, and it is good that the follow-up project started from the autumn of 2017. I would particularly like to underline the Storting's observation that Southern Sami language must be given special attention in the follow-up to the Heart Language. The annual report of the pool addresses knowledge and training in a number of contexts. Many Sami municipalities are district municipalities with no access to digital services. A basic prerequisite is broadband access. Educational material and organisation for the digitisation of Sami learning materials should be on the agenda, and the focus of the Centre Party on digital all-man rights is highly topical also in the Sami areas. The centre party considers that it should be a matter of course for co-workers to use technology services in their own language. Natural resources remain the main basis for Sami business and are important for the Sami cultural heritage. Exploitation of natural resources can often be the basis for conflicts of interest. Sami primary industries, like others that live on food production, are affected by predators. In Sami statistics for 2018, Sami figures 11, it appears that the proportion of reindeer who are negatively affected by the peace of predatory game is 100 pst. – thus all reindeer are adversely affected by predators. It is stated that most reindeer have to endure both economic losses, extra work and mental stress due to threats and attacks by predators. In the south, predatory wild is the intervention that is the most detrimental to reindeer management. There is only one solution to this: the predatory pressure must be reduced, the predatory strain must be reduced and the predatory will have to be followed up. It is important to control the purity of Finnmark, and there has been a clear need to reduce the sustainability of the industry. At the same time, the Centre Party considers it important to take into account the individuals who live on the reindeer farm and are required to reduce the flock to a level which prevents reindeer farming from being viable. Against this background, the Central Party voted in favour of the proposal to await the imposition of coercive measures. The merger has long called for earlier signals from the Storting on the next year's budget. The centre party is therefore pleased that from next year the Stortinget will each deal with a forward-looking notice of Sami relations. It shall mention trends in Sami languages, culture and society and the provision of services to Sami residents.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2123	Thanks to the rapporteur for a good explanation of the matter. The annual report from the Sameting provides a good insight into the different policy challenges and how they are tried and managed. Then we also get to say that there is a lot of good work done on the different issues of common politics, whether in language, industry or culture – which are also important core values. We also see that the Sameting believes that there is a lot to go on – to use that expression. That is why, as in previous years, the Labour Party has pointed to several challenges in this Communication that we believe are important to focus on. Then it's about the framework conditions as such, it's about language, about education, about culture, about nutrition, about digital learning materials – it's about a lot of things that we have to be able to see the whole thing in this area. That is why the 2019 Workers' Party has added 88 million. kr more than the government for various Sami purposes. Essentially, this money has been added to the Sameting, so the intention is that it is the Sameting itself that can give priority to the different bets that they see that there is a strong need for. This is also part of the new Financial Regulation that we have agreed on and that I think will be good. We believe that it is absolutely necessary to strengthen the budget for the Sameting so that these efforts, which I have mentioned, in language, industry, culture, etc., can be properly followed up, so that there is room for the necessary quality improvement, and not least so that the Sameting can see long-term solutions for the various tasks. In addition to this, I refer to the comments we have on the matter, and of course also to the draft budget that the Workers' Party has promoted for 2019 in relation to the Sameting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2132	It is very promising to follow developments in both the Sami institutions and the presence of Sami culture in Norwegian society in general. Through its history and status as indigenous peoples have a special place together in the diverse Norwegian cultural community. The long-term objective is clear, namely to secure the future of Sami culture, not as a museum phenomenon, but as a living part of the modern Norwegian cultural diversity. In this work, a good framework for the work of the Federation is important — economically and through the relations of the Sameting with other Norwegian institutions. The consultation system is a good, trusting act, and it is promising to see in the report on the activities of the whole thing that we are slowly, but surely, finding out good and practical ways of working that work satisfactorily for both parties. It is also important that the work of the European Commission on Truth and Reconciliation is well implemented and that the Commission's intentions are reached. The pride of Sami identity is an important premise for equivalence and trust-based cooperation in all areas of society. Tåante 2017 was a great and wide muster that struck a new tone for the valuation of Sami culture. It is exciting to see how Sami expressions are increasingly present in national channels and how the interest in Sami languages is increasing also in the part of the Sami population that no longer masters the language. The follow-up of NOU 2016:18 The heart language is here a main wager that will be followed up. In particular, the recruitment of Sami language learning skills throughout the training cycle is a necessary priority. The development of Sami language learning material has also proved to be a challenge – there is also a need for a boost here. New of the year is that in consultation with the Sameting Government, the government provides for new regular procedures for the treatment of common policies. Bringing together the main emphasis of the relevant government budget items under the same chapter and promoting an annual communication on common policies during the spring session will facilitate the orderly and transparent treatment of common policies in the Grand Duchy. Norway's history is the story of two people who, side by side, have inhabited this country over time. The story of the majority population is well documented. It is therefore important and necessary to ensure that the cultural history of minorities is also documented for future generations. In this context, of course, this is primarily about Sami identity, but it is also about a mutual understanding of how Norway’s history has been as a whole. The work on the preservation and making available of Sami cultural history must therefore be an important objective in the coming years. Finally, I would like to underline the importance of the ongoing contact between the Sameting and the bodies of Storting. Visits and personal exchanges of knowledge and experience build bridges that are important for good coexistence and common understanding. In conclusion, I would like to thank the Assembly and its representatives and management for the fine meetings of the year that went on.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2151	In the Jeløya platform, the government has determined that it will preserve the Sameting. The unification is an important part of our democracy. Through the Sameting, the indigenous peoples of Norway have themselves been given responsibility to secure and develop their language, culture and social life. As a follow-up to the NOU Heart Language, there has been a registration of Sami languages in the population register. The work on the nursery project ‘Samian children in new public spaces’ has given 5 million. kr extra in the revised national budget for Sámi kindergarten services. The Ministry and the Sameting are in the process of following up the NOU, where several of the measures need legislative changes or changes to current arrangements. The Government and the Assembly have agreed that from 2019 a new budgetary mechanism will be established, where the annual transfers to the Sameting will initially be brought together under one item in the State budget. Norway, Sweden and Finland concluded the negotiations on a Nordic co-convention in 2016. The negotiated text of the Convention has been dealt with in the assemblies. The Convention provides a common legal framework for the three countries, adapted to a Sami-Nordic context. A general objective of the Convention is to maintain, exercise and develop their languages with the least obstacles to cross-border cooperation. The fusion is today an important precursor to the development of Sami art and culture. At the same time, national, regional and local authorities also have a responsibility to give Sami culture good development opportunities. The pooling receives funds from the department that the Sameting itself disposes of for different cultural purposes. This government has an overall view of how we can facilitate value creation and employment in all parts of the Norwegian economy. Through its instruments, the Sameting contributes to growth and development, including: in primary, cultural and Sami travel industries. There is no doubt that Norway’s northernmost counties attract more tourists than before. Tourism has become an important source of income for Norway, and it is essential that the North states continue their efforts to market the best of Norwegian nature and culture. With the introduction of a new budgetary mechanism, most of the core allocation of the Sameting is given under Chapter 560 of the Ministry of Local Affairs and Modernisation, heading 50, ‘Samian language, culture and social life’, about a quarter of a billion. kr. The new scheme gives the Sametinget greater scope for action to prioritise economic instruments themselves between different actions. As part of the consultations between the Government and the Federation on new budgetary arrangements, it was decided that from 2019, a system was established whereby the government will present a situation description and a forward-looking communication to the Stortinget on Sami matters. Furthermore, the Communication will contain trends in Sami language, culture and social life and the service provision to Sami residents. The Communication will set out the government's objectives in the common policies and what it considers to be the main challenges in the future. Assessments of the aggregation shall be made clear in the notification. The annual report of the pooling/annual report shall be attached to the aggregate notification. The aim of the merger has been to improve the dialogue between the Community and the Government and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg through a new budgetary arrangement. I believe that a more forward-looking message could help that very thing. As a welfare country, Norway has a responsibility to facilitate good welfare services for all. This, of course, also includes the Sami population.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2174	First, thank you to the rapporteur for a good explanation of the matter. One of the most important things for the Sameting, as they have pointed out in this message, is the new allocation system. I am pleased that the government has made such a proposal, and that we are following it up. It's going to be very exciting to see when this big message, with a review of the conditions of the whole thing, comes to the Stortinget, whether there's a message that you can go through the different parameters more that you do for the municipalities, so it'll be possible to see if the Sametinge gets the same economic development in the future that we're calculating for the local government sector. There has been one of the wishes of Sameting in this case, and it wants to follow up. We believe that is reasonable. It's been pointed out with the teaching materials, which have been a repetition for a very long time. If we are to preserve language, we must have language teaching materials, and they must be modern teaching materials, in line with what we have in the Norwegian school and in the Norwegian language. Several have been in the NOU Heart language, which must be followed up. It will also require efforts from the government and the state to implement it. It may be especially important for the vulnerable, small languages, which are also in the Southern Sami area, where both language, nutrition and culture are very narrow environments. Several have also been involved in following up ICT, so that it becomes available in these areas, which are quite far-reaching, if you can say so. So I want to go into some points. First of all, I was very pleased that the representative of the That is a great step forward. We will not, of course, vote for the Constitutional Law that this concept should be incorporated into the Constitution. That's what SV means. A very serious report has been received from the Norwegian National Institute for Human Rights, which shows that there is a high incidence of violence in Sami environments, that Sami women and girls are particularly vulnerable to violence. SV made a proposal on Friday that an action plan should be drawn up to address this and also ensure that there are crisis centres and emergency facilities in the municipalities. The centre party was with us on the one proposal, I'm glad. This is an important matter to follow up. Finally, we're concerned with the Sami industry. We have to be, but it must not be such that it becomes like a backdrop for the tourist industry. Here I want to draw attention to the measures taken to bring down the reindeer. It's necessary to bring down the reindeer number, but the method you've used makes those that have the least have to reduce as much as those that have the most. That the government has not been willing to postpone the enforcement measures until the UN Human Rights Committee has been consulted on the matter, I have to say I am very critical of it, for this is so extremely unfair. It is important to maintain a width of the reindeer industry, and not to reduce the number of reindeer do the least out of operation. That's what you do with the way the government has chosen to solve this serious problem. It would have been quite possible to achieve the same result, i.e. reduced in purity, by distributing the cuts in the flocks in a way that would have kept the number of herds that we have today. I believe this shows the arrogance of the big community towards an industry that is struggling in many places and that has to make reductions, precisely because the environmental impact in grazing areas is so great. Then it's extremely important that we do it in a way where the smallest ones just don't experience being so hit by these cuts that they can no longer operate in the reindeer industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2199	The major community is responsible for giving the indigenous culture in Norway the opportunity to develop on their own premises. The same is Norway's indigenous population, and we have a special obligation to maintain and strengthen Sami languages and Sami culture. It is particularly gratifying that the Left was raised to Saemien Sijte on the Jeløya platform, and the government is already delivering in the budget for next year, with the advance of new museum building for Saemien Sijte in Snåsa. Saemien Sijte is one of the most important actors in protecting and strengthening Southern Sami culture. With the new museum building, Saemien Sijte will have a completely new framework for this work. On a day like this, when we're going to discuss task relocation to the new regions a little bit later, it's worth drawing out the important role that Sametinget already plays. The conspiracy ensures that partners do their priorities, give signals to the Storting and not least focus on their cultural heritage and their social life. As an ardent champion of the rights of my group, I am pleased that the appropriations for Sami purposes are set to 1 billion. kr, an increase of 3.9 pst. from this year. It's set at 540 million. kr to Sametinget, also there is an increase of 3.9 pst. The budget for next year shows that the government prioritises Samer and Samer's rights. Conditions shall be optimised in order to be able to take care of their traditions. Not least, Saemien Sijte will be involved in increasing knowledge of Sami traditions, including those who don't know history as well. Knowledge of Sami culture will at least help to break down prejudices, and not least provide increased knowledge of Norway as a country and of Norwegian cultural history. In a time of sharp fronts and change of words on social media and otherwise in society, we must be on guard. I believe and believe that increased knowledge is the key to understanding and acceptance. Too many Northmen are not aware of their own country's history. The history of the same is, to the most extent, part of Norwegian history. We shall also be on guard when we have situations like in Jovsset Ánte Sara's case against the state of forced slaughter of reindeer. We have to guard against making this a struggle for the rights of our friends. There must be no focus in this matter. It shall be possible to conflict with the State as well without any indication of the past. We both have this as politicians on the Stortinget and, not least, we have a responsibility for it. That's not necessarily what the previous speaker said, because the ecology actually helps to determine this. If you don't do any grips, it will hit the whole industry. I think that also the previous speakers have to take with them, that it's not because a person wants to do it especially in a single case, but this matters to the whole industry. Nor is it likely to assume that there are some minimum factors in reindeer management. First of all, it's about pastures, not least winter pastures, because it's the whole key to being clean. Without pastures, we have no Sami culture, so I'm not as happy with what happened a couple of periods ago, not least on Fosen, when a man built out Storheia. It's a large-scale wind force bet that makes the winter pastures of the southern Sami part of that side marginalized.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2214	The government is building our policy on freedom and trust in the people. We are concerned with spreading power, limiting state detail management and building communities from below. We believe that the same principle must also underpin the activities of the Sameting. Through the Sameting, the indigenous peoples of Norway have themselves been given responsibility to secure and develop their language, culture and social life. As a public body, through the use of economic instruments, the Sameting should be able to take the initiative to take action and be responsible for its own priorities. Now, when we bring together all the appropriations in one line of the new Financial Regulation, we give the Sameting such a space of action. In the government, we believe that political decisions are best when a case is assessed from different points of view. That is why it is important for us to have good dialogue with different actors. The whole thing is one of these. As a group's elected body, the Sameting knows variations in the Sami community and what is perceived as the main challenges for the Sami population. Although it is important for the government to have dialogue with the Sameting in matters where there is no consultation obligation, the consultation procedures are one of our main instruments in the common policy. And even though we don't always manage to reach an agreement in the consultations, the experience is that the processes help to make matters better informed. We get more insight into the needs of the Sami community, and we get a better basis for the decisions we make. The Government, earlier in the autumn, promoted a proposal for amendments to the Law on the Law on Consulting, so as to give the law a separate chapter on consultation. The Sami language selection in its heart language report stated that all the Sami languages are threatened languages. The Ministry of Local Affairs and Modernisation coordinates the follow-up to the report of the Committee of Languages and prioritises this work highly, in close cooperation with the Assembly. If we're going to be able to increase the number of Sami language users, we're going to have to bet on the kids. Increased use and strengthening of Sami languages in kindergarten and in school is therefore what we should give priority to first and foremost. To that end, we need competent co-teachers. In the government we are therefore pleased that Nord University has taken responsibility. This fall the world's first southern Sami and lulesamian primary school teacher education was started here. The majority have asked the government to pay particular attention to Southern Sami language, culture and nutrition in the follow-up to the Heart Language. The Government is concerned that minorities should be seen, heard and made visible. In the government, we are pleased that the state budget grants start-up funding for the construction of the Saemien Sijte – Southern Sami museum and cultural centre in Snåsa. At the start of 2019, they will be able to open the second half of the year in 2021. We build our policies on one of the most important values we have in Norway – that people will live free and independent lives. Of course, this also applies to the same thing. But the heat and ridicule of the samer is unfortunately something we see too often. The fact that Samer opts out of his Sami identity is serious not only for the individual but also for Sami culture and for Norway as a nation. As a society, we have a responsibility to reach out for bright solutions that help to create safe breeding environments for Sami children and young people. And that's a big problem we have in front of us. Together with the Sametinget and with the support of Stortinget, we will contribute to fulfilling the obligation of the Basic Law § 108. We're going to make it easier for people together to secure and develop their language, their culture and their social life.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2235	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2241	I agree with what the Council of State said in its statement, and will continue where the Council of State concluded, precisely with the Constitution § 108. It is my understanding that it is through the language we understand and create the world we live in. I would argue that if the future is digital, it must also be digital for the Sami people. The Council of State is not only Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, but is also responsible for ICT policy. One of the issues raised by the Sameting representatives has been to have Sami writing languages accepted in the digital standards of major global companies. How can the Council of State assist the Sami people to include the large global companies in the standard, so that you can express yourself digitally in a digital world as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2248	I understand that this is a challenge, without the whole thing having actually taken it up in consultations with us, but it is clear that we can contribute to it through our meetings with nutritionists. We often meet them in different contexts, both nationally and internationally. Talking out the indigenous language and rights is important to us. Next year, it will be the year of the UN's indigenous peoples, and it will be a good platform to highlight the rights and opportunities inherent in this, in order to support the ability of partners to also use their language digitally.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2255	I thank you for your answer. Just to be sure that I understood the Council of State correctly: I understand that she is not familiar with the issue, but I realized that the Council of State will take the initiative to clarify the issue with the Sametinget. I share the opinion of the Council of State that using the indigenous language years under the auspices of the United Nations will be a golden opportunity to raise this issue, which I suspect may also apply to a number of other indigenous languages.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2260	To be very precise, of course, the combination has addressed language-related challenges – to enough language teachers, to spread knowledge. As regards digitisation related to global companies, it has not been specifically addressed. But it's understandable and obvious, because when, for example, of course, there are also problems with digital solutions. It's a good platform to talk out and talk up the opportunities to digitize the Sami language.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2265	As the Council of State was in the post, it is now time for each of us to come forward with a forward-looking announcement of Sami relations. There the government is going to set out the government's objectives with the common policies and the main challenges ahead, and that's very good. The power handling of this message will give important signals to the Sameting when, for example: shall initiate its budgetary process and it shall be important that the notification be dealt with in the Spring Session Size. Therefore, my question is, When can we expect the message to be submitted to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2270	What we have said is that the forward-looking message is to be submitted to the spring. So it's the Stortinge that sets its agenda. We don't, but we're going to add it to the spring. I am also pleased with the question because it gives me the opportunity to comment on the comments of the representative, Karin Andersen, who argued that this was almost for a municipal proposition to be calculated. At that point, we don't agree with the Sameting. We've said that we're going to present a forward-looking big message to spring, but it's not to count as a municipal proposition, as the whole thing has wanted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2275	Thanks for the answer. I have also realized that one here is not going to bring any economic figures, but that it will give some clear signals. That's why I hope it comes so early in the spring that we at least get the opportunity to deal with it in the spring session. So to something completely different, follow-up of the heart language. A number of measures were outlined in the main communication to support Sami languages — or rather, the Sami languages. Which of those measures does the government consider to be the most important? It was also clarified by Stortinget that special attention should be paid to the smallest Sami languages, not least southern Sami. Does the Council of State have any measures to ensure, in particular, the smallest and most threatened languages?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2282	In the government we are now working on following up the heart language, and that is our main priority. The sector principle applies. This means that it is the Ministry of Knowledge that is responsible for the knowledge part, it is the Ministry of Culture that is responsible for the cultural part, etc. But from KMD we coordinate this, and what we're doing in the first place is going through the proposals. Then we're going to consult the whole thing first and foremost about how we're actually going to follow this up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2287	I need to follow up on the big message that is coming. I am also aware that there is something else, but the question is what it is. I'm assuming that when the government and the majority of the population have meant this, it's going to be something more than what we have now, which gives a certain degree of greater predictability. As the message will arrive in the spring, I assume that the government is now doing a good job. The question then is how to ensure this predictability. Will any binding parameters be provided in this message? What does the government think this big message should be? Can the Council of State say a little more about it today, so that we get a slightly better idea of how to ensure a little better predictability of the framework of the Alliance in the various disciplines mentioned by the Council of State, and that it is perhaps not just a gathering heat, but actually a priority?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2292	The biggest difference is that we're going to go from a message that says what happened, to say something about what's going to happen. What challenges, expectations and dilemmas do we face? We will do this work in close contact with the Sametinget. Of course, the whole thing's view of this should be very clear. I feel that the biggest difference is that we should look forward rather than backwards. Then we have to get back to the final design, but there's a cooperation going on about this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2297	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2305	I want to start by encouraging everyone who hasn't done it yet, to really get involved in the annual report from Sametinget. If you go into it carefully, you'll see how extensive the scope of the whole thing is. Now, as I said last time, the Storting will deal with the annual report in this way. From 2019 onwards, a forward-looking communication from the Stortinget on Sami relations shall be provided. The Memorandum of Understanding provides for that communication to form the basis for the budgetary procedure, so that needs are clearly identified in good time before the budget is finalised. I was made aware that you might not be able to agree on such treatment, but after the council was up here now and said that the consensus is in place, I expect that is the case. For the year that passed, 2017, we have to pull forward Traument 2017, which became a mark of the Sami few dare to dream about. Jubilee space everything – seminar, politics, art, culture and history, as well as that all the Sami was very visible and well received. That pride put together again after this, is probably invaluable. We see that more and more Samaritans now recognize their Sami identity, belonging and history. It is also gratifying that more and more municipalities want to join the Sami language and development areas. We have a long way to go before we can feel confident that we will be able to take care of the Sami. There is a low recruitment rate for Sami teacher training and a large gap in access to learning material. Let's do this, for example. curriculums, professional renewal, which now stands at the door, cannot be achieved with today's resources to develop teaching materials in line with this. There are, for example: non-digital learning materials in Sami. The big investment in digital educational universes includes a lot of languages here in Norway, but unfortunately not Sami. It's strange, all the time we have two national languages in Norway – Norwegian and Sami. The Party considers that educational material and organisation for the digitisation of Sami learning materials should be on the agenda, and it should be obvious that co-workers can use technology services in their own language. When it comes to nutrition, there's two things I want to draw out. We know that we have not yet started with the Norwegian-Swedish reindeer grazing commission. I'll come back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2318	I just need to correct what the representative from the left said. He could not have heard according to what I said. SV believes and fully agrees that the reindeer number has to go down. That's what I said in my post. It has been clearly from our side all the way. But it's possible to do it in a way that you're protecting them with the smallest reindeer number, and that those with the largest flocks have to take a larger part of it. That is what SV has proposed, and I have seen that the Workers' Party and the Centre have agreed. There's no disagreement that you have to reduce the pure number, so I'm asking the representative from the Left to stop spreading such untruths.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2323	We know that we have not yet entered port with the Norwegian-Swedish reindeer grazing convention, which is serious for the reindeer grazing industry in large parts of our country. We also see that the government does not open up any of the changes in the law on reindeer management that the industry itself is asking for. The government, on the other hand, chooses to go along with the laws they want, despite the fact that neither Sametinget nor Norske Rein driftssamer Landsförbund, the trade association, agree to them. The centre party sees that it is also pointed out in this case investigation that it is important to ensure viable predatory wildlife populations. In many areas, Sami industries are heavily threatened by just predatory game, and government’s predatory game policy is doing anything but ensuring viable grazing. The Sami industries are crucial to ensuring the preservation of Sami language and culture. The centre party believes it is good that we now have another opportunity to strengthen the Sami and get visible needs in good time before the budget is drawn up. The whole thing is doing a formidable job, and it would be important that we, too, from the Biggest side, become more and more aware of the Sami. We big-time politicians must remember for the future to include actions aimed at the Sami population in all major national initiatives that are being undertaken in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2332	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2348	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Green Party 5 minutes and Red 5 minutes. The President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to six lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2361	This reform has had a long and sometimes painful birth. It is not easy to interfere so much with the internal life of the administration, nor has it been free from challenges to put in place a municipal structure that involves large enough units to carry out a solid task transfer from the state to the elected regional level. No later than two weeks ago, we were dealing with rematches on this. Then I said what I meant about it, and now we're going to focus on the problems. Nevertheless, it should be mentioned that it was with this hindrance that my party chose the slightly untraditional method of negotiating an agreement with the government before the notification of the deposit was submitted. I want to take that bull by the horns and explain it. It was necessary to calm down the adopted structure in order to prevent further time losses in many county mergers. If we hadn't, the uncertainty and the game would have continued until now, just beyond Christmas, and the new county municipalities would have lost valuable time in conversion and employment processes. The consideration of employees and their families living in uncertainty about their own working life, and the respect for the efforts made by the administrative and political authorities in most county municipalities, led to a rapid clarification. And I remember that the expert committee was clear that significant task transfer required a certain minimum size of county municipalities, and that it was the population that was relevant – not square kilometers. Furthermore, I would like to mention at the outset that it is essential that the generalist municipality principle be used as a basis for the new county municipalities. We cannot have a patchwork of decision portfolios in this country. It would provide an inconspicuous and poor model. So far about this rug. As we ordered in the discussion of the municipal proposition in ours, the big message came in October, and I would like to thank the Committee for its constructive work on the communication. The whole idea of this reform is to make county municipalities stronger regional community developers. It is good that a long-standing debate in political Norway now culminates in a regional reform with larger and stronger county municipalities and with a significant transfer of tasks from the state. The vastly complex district commission 15 years ago had this as its main recommendation. There's no doubt that what we're doing now is the most important district policy operation that's ever been done in our political generation. Following the reform, municipalities can dispose of more of the instruments on the basis of their knowledge and regional advantages and challenges. This will lead to better and more effective policies. The reform is also a democratic reform that makes regional elected politicians decide and get a grip on issues that have been dealt with in the past, for example. by regional government bureaucracy. And not a bad word about state bureaucrats! We have bureaucrats in Norway who do an excellent job. At the same time, it is essential in democracy that decisions requiring political judgement should be decided by elected politicians who can cast voters at the next elections and who, by their ombudsman role, have a different degree of proximity and a duty of obedience to those affected by the decisions. I'm also going to add that reform work gives a significant learning curve to everyone implied. Several of us have seen that large words and letters that we have used are now nuanced a little when the reformer is to be reconciled with what is possible to implement promptly, and what takes a little longer. It's a little painful to admit, but I guess this is what's called everyday politics. The Hagen Committee, the Expert Committee, provided a good basis for work on task transfer. In the notification and in the agreement, decisions on task transfers may be divided into four categories: those decided upon in connection with the previous procurement of Prop. 84 S for 2016-2017, those that can be decided immediately, those that require a little longer preparation, and to which the government comes back in the municipal proposition of spring, and those that require further investigations, such as: Buffetate. A fifth category is to the extent that proposals are put aside, at least at this stage. It has been important to stress that task transfer does not limit itself to the shipper’s current roof. This must always be followed up by assessing whether tasks can be resolved more appropriately in the future at regional level than at State level. Regional tasks should be addressed at regional level. It is important that as many tasks as possible are ready for transmission on 1 January 2020. Similarly, it is important that as many clarifications as possible be made in the treatment of this big-scale announcement in the notified processes towards the municipal proposition for 2019 – not least because both county municipalities, the politicians who make elections in the county elections next year, their parties and voters know, at least far on the way, what should be the county portfolio. Then I see, President, that I'm set up in 5 minutes, I thought I had 10. As rapporteur, I have prepared myself in 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2386	That's right, then Bransdal continues.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2391	Fine, then maybe I can get through what I've prepared. In the work that takes place after this day, it is important that the government involves KS and the county councils in a good way. It will give both a better process and, probably, better decisions around the next turn. As decisions will come at slightly different times, it is useful if the government in the budget next year provides an overall report on the status of the content and implementation of the reform. The tasks and instruments now being transferred are in areas where county councils are already responsible and competent. This strengthens the county councils as a community developer. The county councils are given new tasks in key areas such as competence and integration, public health, climate and environment, industrial development and agriculture, research, transport, planning and culture. These are important areas for the development of society in the individual counties and are tasks which county councils have good prospects for solving. As mentioned, something is ready for decision now, which will come in the next six months. In the field of industrial policy, which is a key to a stronger societal development role, the Communication proposes that the grantor’s responsibility for the business environment programme, the incubator programme, mentoring programme, business networks and share the transfer of the grant to the county councils. Furthermore, it is good if the means of travel are also transferred, but we understand that this needs some investigation. We understand that the overall review of the economic instrument under way by the government has to go ahead, but has clear expectations that the review will lead to more task shifting. Competence policy is also an area where regionalisation of power can provide more accurate solutions. The Hagen Committee proposed the closure of several directorates and the transfer of their entire portfolio to the county municipalities. The government has chosen to transfer much from the IMFI, but to retain the IMDi as a national trade union directorate and centre of expertise. That's probably right. Equally, we would point out that transferring residence to a elected body gives a democratic and functional added value, and not least that the professional environment is strengthened more closely where housing takes place. I would also like to emphasise that all the tasks of the State that involve political discretion are, or are, transferred to the County Council — well to mark with the exception of endangered species and protected areas, which are directly influenced by state-adopted policies. We believe that the anchoring of an environmental portfolio at all three levels of government is essential in order to achieve stronger political pressure and understanding. A recent communication on culture has been submitted which goes deeper into the relevant areas of culture. There is no doubt that many cultural tasks should be managed by the regional level. I have a clear expectation that this will be taken into account in Storting's treatment over the New Year. Our northernmost part of the country, and in particular Finnmark and Troms, have a special closeness to and knowledge of Northern Region Management. We are therefore pleased that they are given a more prominent role in the Arctic Council, and that about half of the funds from the Arctic 2030 grant scheme are transferred to the county councils of North Norway. One of the very largest transfers proposed by the Hagen Committee was Buffetat. This applies, inter alia, to: the services of the most vulnerable children, and it is not right to do such an action until it has been properly investigated whether the change results in better services for these children. This illustrates well that we could not deliver ‘a full Hagen’, which became the tribal language for launching all the expert committee proposed, immediately. Their mandate was not to complete all matters. Under the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, intra-corporate training is proposed and responsibility for other training measures should be assessed in the context of the county authorities' responsibility for training and overall competence. In the field of health, the entire public health portfolio currently held by Fylkeshan is transferred, with the exception of supervision. Furthermore, it is proposed that funds currently in the Health Directorate should be included in the county after the planning period. Thus, together with outdoor tasks, the municipalities have a comprehensive approach to public health policy. We have great expectations for that. A Joint Committee supports the extension of the coordination of public transport between State and State so that both can achieve their objectives and that the offer is better and more coordinated for people. The transfer of the district of co-road administration is over-mature, despite some internal scepticism. We expect this to lead to better resource use and more coherent thinking in road planning and maintenance. I can't go into all the task transfers in this post, but let me say that with this we are making a reform that I think will serve the country, the inhabitants and our people's government well. It is more important than games about individual elements.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2421	Finally, Stortinget deals with the question of which tasks the counties should have. The debate so far has been very much about structure and very little about the content and substance of the reform. That may not be so strange, because the new division of states is characterized by arbitrariness, irresponsibility and immaturity. It is not easy to understand how this should strengthen democracy or provide better services to its citizens. It is also difficult to understand the logic behind some states being selected and forced to join together against their will, while others continue as today. In addition, the process is characterized by poor political craftsmanship on the part of the government. We don't need a government that refurbishes the country, we need a government that builds the country, and that plays with people. Now we have repeatedly addressed the question of how many and what counties we are going to have, and the bulk of the population has been burdened and broken together and held on to the fact that they will force through a number of new counties through a coercion that does not have the digestion of those who actually live there. It has created wounds, and there are wounds that will take a long time to grow, but the majority in this room must bear responsibility for it. Today's debate will focus on the tasks of the counties and, for the Workers' Party, there is a clear starting point for what should be the basis for transferring tasks and powers to the counties. We want strong regions and counties under direct popular control. The counties, in cooperation with municipalities, businesses and state administrations, shall take the lead in social development. Strong counties should take over several areas of sectors such as transport, education, research, industrial development and the environment. The regional level must retain their tasks in both school, health, public transport and dental health. Then there is something about being able to see the overall societal development role, both in terms of regional plans, and how to develop them as a tool for more coordinated development. And let me just be clear about it: in the Workers' Party, we are positive to local processes where county councils consider joining up to larger counties, if they think it provides better services to residents and businesses. The government has justified its objective of fewer, larger and more robust states that they should be given responsibility for more tasks and more power and responsibility. Our starting point is a little bit different. We are concerned that the tasks are distributed in such a way that they are effective, but above all that they provide better services for the citizens and for those who operate in the county. For this reason, both during this period and in the previous period, the Labour Party has promoted a number of proposals that would have transferred power and authority to the regionally elected level. We have been impatient and thought that new tasks should be in place before we discussed the structure and size of the county municipalities. It has not been listened to by the government and the majority of the population, and it may explain some of the lack of enthusiasm and the upsurge of – not to say the resistance to – the regional reform. You just haven't been told what the structural changes are actually going to end up with. In February 2018, the Hagen Committee presented proposals for tasks for the new county municipalities. The committee proposed a transfer of tasks and instruments from a number of state agencies. It includes tasks in the fields of industry, innovation, research, competence, integration, culture, public health, transport, climate and environment. It was a good estimate that the government sent out to the hearing. But before the summer Stortinget felt that the government was having to follow up the selection proposal. The government suggested that the problems should come piece by piece and shared to Stortinget. Therefore, it was necessary to instruct the government, with a deadline, to present a separate case with an overall assessment of task transfers to the new county municipalities, based on the expert committee's investigation and the consultation that had been carried out. It is this case that is the basis for today's proceedings. I must be allowed to say that I am critical of the fact that the responsibility for culture is not part of what we are discussing here today. It can be experienced as an obstruction of the clear instructions given by Stortinget in June. Culture is an important aspect of developing and maintaining its identity. It's just to look at what the county councils are helping to support today's local games and museums. Perhaps the best thing is what you have chosen to do in Trøndelag County, where you have spent money writing the song 'Ee thrønder'? perhaps the most effective measure to make the process go well. Many of the government's proposals are also unclear in their form, content and timetable for implementation. There are many new investigations, reviews, clarifications and hearings to be carried out before concluding on how many workers, how much money and what skills will be transferred to the counties. In many ways it is understandable, but the Workers' Party would like to have clearer answers to which authority and when to transfer the authority to the counties. So investigations along the way could have shown if it would have been necessary to make adjustments. The whole point of having an overall assessment in the Storting was just to see things in context, and predictability is also a prerequisite for the county councils and local people elected in the regions. The size should be much clearer today in both the direction and speed of the transfer of authority to be carried out. The Workers' Party, through task transfers to the regionally elected level, will help to strengthen the ability of municipalities to facilitate new jobs and further develop existing ones. We want to exploit the potential that lies throughout the country. Norway varies in industries, resources, infrastructure and competences. The instruments must then be tailored. Therefore, the Labour Party will strengthen precisely those areas where county municipalities already have a responsibility today – business development, research, innovation, skills development, transport, regional planning and coordination. In addition, it is crucial for us when transferring competence and authority, that we also contribute to strengthening political governance and getting less bureaucracy. Several decisions should be taken by elected representatives, who can be held accountable for elections. Then we get better democratic governance of social development, and then we spread more power and authority across the country, from directorates and bureaucrats to elected regional governance. It gives better local priorities from those who know their territory the best. It is also more efficient economically. The municipal law is the framework for all county activities. The aim of the law is precisely to promote municipal and county self-government and to establish the necessary framework for it. This should be followed by the task transfer. The Workers' Party promotes more proposals than the Government on task transfer. Overall, we believe that we should have made greater efforts to move climate and environmental tasks to the popularly elected regional level, and we will therefore ask the government to carry out further transfers in that area from the State to the county municipalities. We also want to give the county councils responsibility for guidance on motor travel in rural areas and to give them regional responsibility for coordination in the field of climate change related to the follow-up of the climate law. Not least in the light of the debate here in the Chamber earlier today, there would be an effective response. Also in the agricultural field, where there will still be overlap between the county and the county, we want the government to investigate, without weakening the agricultural agreement, with the national leaders that are there, a further transfer of tasks to the county and the county. Patient travel is another area where there is a basis for looking at coordination effects and synergies, in particular in areas with large areas, and at the strengthened role of public transport. In recent years, the government has cut regional development funds sharply, especially in district and regional policy. This has affected the ability of the counties to create jobs throughout the country. It is also strange that the government in a process of regional reform, which is precisely to strengthen the regions as regional development actors, chooses to cut precisely in this item. I can see no other explanation than that the government parties Right and the lead position of the Progress Party has always been that we should abolish the county municipalities. Two words about the northern regions. I noticed that the case rapporteur was in on it, but that is one of the parts of the post I can't join, because she said that Troms and Finnmark in particular have Northern Territory competence. I would argue heavily that all three of the northernmost states have good Northern Territory competence, but it's a little different. In Finnmark, Barents' cooperation and being a neighbour of Russia are particularly good, and Troms has fantastic, world-leading environments within, among other things. climate and marine research, while Northland is the heavy industrial community that knows something about how it is to operate export-oriented activities in North Norway – to paint it with a broad brush. The Labour Party calls for a far better involvement of municipalities in the ongoing investigation work. It has to be a prerequisite when you transfer the problems that are actually coming, and I expect the government to follow up on this. I regret that the majority of people chose to settle this matter at the Chamber through an agreement, instead of seeking a broad settlement on a reform that, after all, is important to the country. It would have strengthened the communities. With that, I take up what the Labour Party proposal is behind, and the proposals that the Labour Party has with the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2461	The representative Eirik Sivertsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2466	The issue we are dealing with now is part of the largest structural change in tasks and responsibilities for county municipalities in many decades. We didn't change the county map to change it, nor do we change the division of duties and responsibilities to do so, but because our country is changed. The agreed structure of 11 counties is established and it is a key prerequisite for the transfer of new tasks to the county councils. It's about decentralization. For us in both the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Advance Party and the Right, it is important to move power closer to the inhabitants. We know that in each region it is best known the challenges and needs and can therefore also develop solutions for the benefit of both citizens and businesses. At the same time, the government has followed the principle that all county councils should have the same tasks as the Hagen Committee did. This means that the county structure and population of the smallest county are dimensional for which tasks can be transferred to the county municipalities. With a new structure and several instruments, the counties are now better able to carry out their tasks and those transferred. With larger units, the counties will be able to improve service development. They have more means of getting more people to work, and they can facilitate regional needs for the development of skills, labour and economic activity. New tasks and responsibilities in the fields of industrial development, agriculture, research, public health, competence, integration, climate and environment, as well as health and culture will strengthen the role of county councils as social developers in a good way. Our prerequisite for moving tasks to the regions is that we believe it will create both better and more equivalent services in the regions. The four parties that have cooperated on the regional reform and transfer of tasks have been concerned that the new counties should not become over-municipalities. That's why we've moved power from the state, and we're not moving power and tasks from the municipalities. That's what real decentralization is. To ensure the well-being of future generations, our country needs to change. If we don't do that, we'll fail our first commitment. A good rural policy is also about better cooperation between enterprises and public institutions. The government’s policy on the government’s governance structure for knowledge, competence, industrial development, agriculture, transport and communication, health and culture is designed to strengthen and empower local communities, ensure sustainability and growth strength across the country. The Ministry of Municipal Affairs and the Ministry of Modernisation has also made it clear that the Ministry will go through the division of regional states in order to adapt to the new municipal structure where it makes sense. The leadership given for this work is that priority should be given to changes that contribute to the efficiency of government administration, contribute to better interplay across countries, contribute to better interaction between regional and county authorities and contribute to simplification for users, municipalities, businesses and residents. I am pleased that there is agreement in the committee on a great deal related to the tasks that are now being proposed for transfer to the county councils. It is enough that the opposition parties make some more proposals, and in particular the Central Party wants a more extensive transfer. But when the Center Party wants a larger transfer, they want this, even though they haven't supported the structure assumption on which the Hagen Committee based its recommendations. So the center party says yes to the problems, but no to the structure. It's a paradox for me. So I would like to end by reminding you in this post that the task transfers proposed in this message do not prevent more tasks that may eventually be suitable for relocating. Now we have a structure to build on, and the government and the Christian People's Party have taken an important step towards facilitating the transfer of tasks and building heavier county municipalities that can take a significantly stronger role as a community developer in their regions in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2485	First of all, I would like to comment that the opposition, and especially SV, is very concerned that the Progress Party believes that the regional reform is the first step on the way to bringing down the county municipalities. I think it's very nice to get drag help on what's the lead position of the Advance Party in the counties. We create a new batch program every four years in connection with stockpiling elections. The party program is valid for four years, and our party program says that we want to bring down the county municipality. This will be there for three more years – at least. But then it's also that when we make agreements, these apply. The regional reform is based on such an agreement. First and foremost, we regard regional reform as a decentralisation reform. We move power from Oslo out to the states, near where people live. Besides, we're moving power from County to County, and that's how we strengthen democracy. With this case, we are continuing the agreement between the government parties and the Christian People's Party that, in sum, the regional reform will reduce bureaucracy, with fewer employees in administrative positions, fewer full-time politicians at regional level and more resources for services for residents and businesses. Together, we commit ourselves to ensuring that the policy benefits are moderate and have broad legitimacy, and to provide guidelines for the remuneration of elected representatives at regional level. The Norwegian county councils are generalist municipalities. They're going to keep doing that. The Communication points out that the government with the regional reform wants to facilitate positive social developments in all parts of the country, based on regional advantages, assumptions and priorities. The county councils are central to adapting regional policy to the national and regional challenges we face. The government will strengthen the county councils as community developers, giving them more means to develop the county in the desired direction. County councils that help more people get to work, that businesses get the labour they need, and that more jobs are created, create attractive regions and boost growth. It should be noted in the notice that proposals for new tasks requiring legislative or regulatory changes will be sent to the hearing bodies in a regular manner so as to give them the opportunity to comment on the government's concrete proposals. Proposals for legislative changes are then promoted by the Stortinget. Government proposals requiring budgetary changes will be promoted for the Storting in the ordinary budgetary procedures. A task transfer is proposed within, inter alia: industrial development and industrial research, culture, commerce, agriculture, public health, climate and environment. In the case of transport, responsibility is transferred to the State fishing ports, which are currently located at the Coastal Plant. Grants to non-governmental airports and purchases of domestic flights, currently made by the Ministry of Transport, and the State grant scheme for extended TT offers are included. Responsibility is transferred after the TT scheme has been financed as a national scheme. I'm aware that someone in this regard is concerned about still big differences between the states. It will therefore be essential for national guidelines to be guided in such a way as to put an end to today’s major differences. Subsidies are also transferred for roadside and pedestrian/bicycle routes along county/municipal road networks. The section of the joint road administration is also transferred to the county municipalities. In the field of transport, tasks transferred must be consistent with NTP, and we expect this to lead to better resource use and more coherent thinking, road planning and maintenance. As regards culture, this has been delegated in a separate communication, which will be examined in the current Committee. This Communication proposes inter alia: the current funding for actions and events with a strong local and regional anchoring, which do not have an established position at national level, is transferred to the county municipalities. It's going well in Norway. Economic growth is rising, and unemployment is falling. Through good conditions for business, digitisation and strong municipalities, we can facilitate new, secure jobs and sustainable well-being across the country. A good rural policy is also about better cooperation between enterprises and public institutions in cities and districts. Government policy on municipal structure, competence, industrial development, agriculture, transport and communication, knowledge and health is designed to strengthen local communities and district centres and make it possible to live and live throughout the country. The Government is further committed to the Mercury programme in 2019. The differentiated employer’s fee is a strong regional policy instrument and amounts to about 15.4 billion. kr for 2019. The appropriations for transport have increased by about 75 pst. in our period of government. This reduces distances, binds communities together and provides new opportunities for people and businesses across the country. The objective of regional and district policies is regional balance through equivalent living conditions and sustainable regions throughout the country. The government will continue its efforts to facilitate living communities and growth throughout Norway. The Government will therefore present a district notification in 2019. Sitting government has also done a great deal of work to make the whole social structure better, more profitable and sustainable. At the same time, the Centre Party, the Labour Party and the SV have used the debates to address this regional reform. These parties could use the debate useful in talking up the districts, but as usual, these parties have one focus: more money, more state. I am calling for policies from the left that will not lead to increased taxes on the population. Regional reform will become important in the future, not least in terms of contributing to the participation of more immigrants in the labour market. The strengthened role of county councils in the policy of competence means that they are to draw up plans, which also include measures to qualify refugees and immigrants to meet regional labour market needs. Furthermore, county municipalities shall contribute to the settlement of internally resident refugees in the region. The integration issue is crucial for a sustainable economy in the future, and the integration issue is something I've been following closely in recent years. Many short-stay young people have a formal right to secondary education, but many do not have real opportunities to actually complete because they do not have the necessary initial training. Therefore, only about half complete secondary education. We have to do something about that. In line with the agreement between the government parties and the Christian People's Party, we will investigate how we can give county municipalities extended responsibility for facilitating and strengthening training for all young people aged 16 to 24 who do not have sufficient prerequisites for completing secondary education. This will ensure that young people — including Immigrants with short periods of residence — get an offer that enables them better to complete an upper secondary school. Several counties have already established such offers in cooperation with the municipalities, among others. so-called combination classes. Young people receive an offer that enhances primary education in a secondary school, together with other young people. The combination classes are supported by a State grant, Jobjesen Part B, which we propose to double in 2019. The funds shall be transferred to the county from 2020 onwards. We also need to assess how county councils can be given a clearer responsibility for organising vocational and vocational training courses for immigrants who are in line with regional labour market needs. Overall, it strengthens the role of these regions in the policy of competence and integration and will contribute to increasing employment among immigrants as well. Furthermore, an analysis shall be made of how the counties can be given responsibility for the settlement of refugees internally in the regions and also other regional coordination of integration policies. This means that we move tasks and responsibilities from the state to the states. At the same time, the Directorate for Integration and Diversity as a national trade union directorate is maintained in this area. We need an actor who has updated and necessary knowledge of this field. I note that the opposition supports the transfer of broadband development support schemes to county municipalities from 2020, but also sees them writing that without the funds being earmarked in a start-up phase, we will experience that the digital class divide is increasing and that vulnerable regions will lose competitiveness. If we're going to give more power to the states, we also need to have confidence that they can take on new tasks. Expressing distrust of the states on the same day that we decide to give them more trust, I think is a bad start for the new states. The central batch writes several times in the configuration, as a comment on the further completion of other tasks, that they stress that it is necessary to determine how the transfer is to be carried out, not whether the task is to be transferred. I strongly disagree with this. Of course, we have to make careful assessments on a case-by-case basis. We do not transfer tasks if we believe that this would result in a worse service or have other unfortunate consequences. Since the Central Party opposes some of the proposed transfers, they themselves have shown that they believe that not all transfers will be a good thing. An example of a field that I'm concerned about transferring is child protection. Child protection has significant challenges today. Although child protection is much better today than a decade ago, we know that there are still children who are suffering and who are not receiving help. But we also know that child protection makes mistakes and picks up children who should never have been picked up. Furthermore, many children and young people can tell that it was actually better to live under care failings and shortcomings in people who, after all, loved them than to have the necessary security in people who did not show them love. We also know that it is a huge burden to work with these matters. Violence and threats have become daily for many of the employees of child protection, which is, of course, unacceptable and which we must fight. The Progress Party therefore supports all those who, at the hearing, were skeptical about ‘touching’ with child protection now, and agrees that this needs to be investigated with particular attention, and that those participating in it must have relevant and broad experience and competence. A special measure is being taken to strengthen North Norway by transferring about half of the funds in the grant schemes and the Arctic 2030, which is currently managed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to the county councils of North Norway. The administration of grants to women's language and culture is transferred to the municipality of Troms and Finnmark. The involvement of county councils in the planning of the implementation of Arctic Council meetings is ensured and clarified through the development of objectives, rules and procedures for cooperation between actors. A Secretariat for the Regional North Region Forum is established in Vadsø. There is a sea of opportunities to move power, jobs and competences where people live. Regional reform is not primarily about bureaucracy, the number of politicians, old or new structure or reform resistance. This is about people, well-being, better services and a strengthened democracy. If we are to respond to a time when demographic changes, with more elderly people and immigration, we are totally dependent on changing the structure. It is a saying that we have to change the roof while the sun shines. That's it. Norway is doing well – so well that we can restructure ourselves for the better, and that is completely without the need to increase taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2540	Let me start by saying that the central party's opposition to the regional reform as the government has run it is about the order that the government has set up. The coercion that this government has faced, and the proposal that the government is presenting here, I believe, shows that our resistance is well-founded. However, the centre party has long been clear that we want a significant transfer of tasks, authority and resources to the county municipalities. There are a number of tasks that are not best addressed by state bureaucracy, either located in Norway or centrally in Oslo, but require political judgement. At the same time, in the foreseeable future, municipalities will become too small, no matter how much coercive and dubious carrots this government is prepared to use to achieve the goal of fewer municipalities. Then it's good to have a level that can take regional account. The centre party proposed in 2016 for the treatment of Meldning. St. 22 for 2015–2016 to transfer several major tasks to the county councils, and in this context propose significantly more and more tasks than what the government is doing. A crucial premise for the Centre Party is that financial appropriations should follow the task. We are therefore disappointed with the government's proposal for task transfer, and believe it is proposed for small and too few tasks. The tasks referred to in the main communication shall be examined and evaluated in all respects and there is very little real transfer in the proposal. We think it is unfortunate that it is proposed to move only parts of the tasks from different directorates and from County, and that not all of the task portfolios are transferred to county municipalities. Such fragmentation risks powdering responsibilities and inadequate funding, as well as not reducing red tape in the management of the task to the extent that it is possible to do so. Furthermore, when the government proposes to move smaller parts of tasks, or authority, it reduces the ability to work with overall objectives, which will vary from state to state. The cross-sectoral approach to managing tasks effectively and appropriately with regional assumptions is weakened. The centre party believes that the Storting should take the opportunity to transfer significant tasks to the county councils, while at the same time reducing government administrative tasks and bureaucracy. The government should follow the advice of the Hagen-unelected government and propose the closure of entire directorates and state institutions. Such a comprehensive task transfer would result in a more democratic approach to key societal tasks. By transferring significant tasks to the county council, the role of the county council as a social developer is strengthened, while at the same time strengthening the opportunities to see good across sectors and in the light of local and regional conditions. The Central Party considers that all the tasks of the State which require political judgement should be transferred to the County, with the exception of soil protection. The county should in the long term become a purely judicial, supervisory and judicial body. Indeed, the county has far better conditions than the state in order to adapt the administration to good regional solutions. By transferring most of the tasks proposed by the Hagen Committee and a little more in other areas, the Stortinget could provide a significant reduction in state bureaucracy in favour of the decentralisation of jobs, authority and power throughout the country. It would strengthen the rule of the people, assuming that sufficient resources were involved. At the hearing of the county councils, it was clearly underlined that the counties expect a significant transfer of tasks, and not least full funding of them. If we are to succeed in transforming Norway, public administration needs to be seen across sectors and the ability to adapt public solutions to local and regional conditions. Countries must have regional development funds to stimulate innovation programmes, and secondary schools must train young people locally and in consultation with local business needs to ensure access to relevant labour, and not least that young people can get a job. The counties must have infrastructure and overall regional planning, as well as good communities around the county that ensure that people want to live and work throughout the country. It is a key to making use of the resources that lie throughout the country. Several consultation bodies highlighted the policy of competence and industrial development as important areas for regional development, where county municipalities should have a stronger role. A more holistic approach to these fields could lead to more efficient use of instruments and more locally adapted solutions. In this context, I would like to refer to a mapping from NIVI Analysis, as set out in the final report of the Productivity Commission in 2016. It was shown that 38 state directorates have 36 different geographical divisions. This is not effective, nor is it a good starting point for looking across disciplines to find the best solutions for government. By giving the states more power and resources, you can gain from building on local knowledge and on popular governance of services to a greater extent than today's fragmented state organization. Now, when we're going to carry out task transfer to county councils, we have to make sure that this is done with a holistic approach. In order to achieve this, the county authorities themselves need to be involved to a much greater extent. The centre party expects the county councils to be involved in the further work on the task transfer, and that the county councils are therefore given real involvement in how to manage the transfer of tasks in a good way. The centre lot expects essentially all tasks in the notification proposed to be investigated or assessed transferred to be transferred. In cases where the investigation has been proposed or where a transfer is to be considered, the transfer of the task should be investigated, not whether it should be transferred. We believe all the tasks proposed in Meldning. St. 6 for 2018–2019 and by the Hagen Committee, and all tasks of the County State that do not concern supervision, control or complaint shall be transferred to the County Municipality. There are a few exceptions: Statped, grants to study associations, state fishing ports, soil protection, the District Centre and the Merkur programme. The reason why we believe that these tasks should not be carried over is that the professional environments are small and specialised, and therefore they should be retained as today. Soil protection has been excluded from our proposal because food soil is a national resource, and because we do not currently have legislation that ensures adequate protection against degradation. It is absolutely essential that county councils have financial opportunities to perform their tasks. We therefore believe that tasks to be transferred to the county councils must be fully financed and that financial transfers to the counties in general must be strengthened, not weakened. In this context, the Central Party believes it is very critical that the government in the government budget for 2019 cuts in items such as: framework transfer to county municipalities, regional development funds, broadband and regional research funds. These are resources currently used by the county councils for basic tasks and for the social development mission that the government believes should be strengthened through the regional reform. If the Storting and the Government are serious about ensuring development throughout the country with increased digitisation and a competent and adaptable business, the means we have to do this cannot be removed. I would also like to take this opportunity to refer to the report of the Road Traffic Information Council, which shows that the maintenance of the county roads is increasing in North Norway and the West, and constantly in the East. This clearly shows the difficult situation in which the counties find themselves when the appropriations needed to solve the tasks are not sufficient. In the 2019 budget, there is no increase in the framework transfers to the counties, on the contrary. Although the states that weighers do a good job with the funds they have, the costs have increased more than the transfers. The other tasks of the county are costly, and with considerable efforts to provide collective services throughout the country, as well as expenditure on secondary education, it is demanding to increase budgets. In particular, many districts are affected, especially our coastal communities, and it is alarming. In order to become a good service provider of new tasks, funding must be provided to ensure that both current and new tasks can be properly addressed. When economic instruments are reduced, the counties do not have the opportunity to solve the problems they already have, and much less to solve new and more tasks. Although the first new tasks of the county councils will only be transferred from 2020, it is worrying that the government has drastically reduced these appropriations in recent years. When the counties are to take over new tasks – after the government parties and the Christian People’s Party have reduced their budgetary commitments for six years – it is absolutely essential that all the parties now ensure that the county councils have room to build up the environments of competence that are necessary, and not least to develop existing and new services and tasks. I would also like to point out that the central party is initially in favour of increased framework management and more room for action for the county councils, but that does not mean that it is easy to put more and more tasks under the framework transfers without the corresponding increase in transfers. Today, Stortinget has adapted its regional assumptions to the decentralisation of power, authority and service development. It believes the Central Party that the majority of the Storting should use it for the good of the whole country. With that, I will deal with the proposals put forward by the Centre Party alone, and the proposals we have made together with SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2593	The representative Willfred Nordlund has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2599	A regional reform carried out by parties that they say they want to reduce the regional level – which has already been confirmed here today – which coercively merges and which cuts into the main regional policy instruments, does not provide confidence. And it's not about whether SV has confidence or not, it's about the people who live in the counties – they don't trust what's going on. SV wants a level of government that has economic space for action, and it proposes SV. We want tools for economic development, it suggests SV. We do not cut into the regional policy instruments – as the government says it does 5.6 pst. more value creation and 6.1 pst. higher growth in the number of persons employed than in comparable enterprises. This is what can create development in the regions, that is the role the regions should have — and they have been met with cutbacks from the government. We in SV propose more money for innovation, research and building skills. These are the most important instruments a region can have. In addition, we are proposing more funds for decentralised higher education, and that counties and universities and higher education institutions should have such instruments. It meets the need for competence across the country so that it can be developed in line with the regional assumptions and in line with the regional labour market and its needs. The government does not respond to any of these points, which are, of course, the regional policy role that the regions should have. SV believes that the tasks to be performed by county councils must be fully financed by the State. That's one of the reasons why we're skeptical about it being incorporated into the framework. Discussions have also been held here today on, for example: the means of broadband. There are very different needs in the counties. The government has also changed the income system of the counties, which causes the districts to lose violently. If you put this in for development in the regions, much of the money will go to Oslo. There is no point in such funds being included in the framework, with the distribution mechanisms in place. So there's reason to be skeptical about much of what's being presented by the government. One of the things that is absolutely necessary to have and to strengthen is the regional research funds. There are different conditions around the country that need a research effort. We have highlighted quite strongly in our remarks that it is important that we strengthen this. It is therefore not necessary to weaken the national research communities in order to achieve this. SV has also made proposals on one of the things that county councils should really have the right to sea, the same as municipalities should have. It's about school structure — they're school owners. But it is that they can neither say no nor can put their foot down for setting up private schools or when they are going to reduce the number of school places. To adapt it to e.g. The student base does not allow them to do so in private schools; they have to take it only in public schools. It should be quite a sunshine right for the school owners to determine school structure seam. Collective traffic is one of the tasks of the states. I look at my great apprehension that the government is now changing the concession provisions, so that there is a release for all routes over 50 km. It will kick bones under the income base of some of the collective routes that the counties have, since private individuals can go in and take it out, while county councils have to operate those routes that may not have profits. This is one of the ways in which the county authorities are constantly undermining the possibilities of seeing this in a whole, which everyone talks so nicely about. I want to include the suggestions in the setting that SV is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2618	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2623	Unlike many of the previous speakers, I am very happy today. We've spent a little time just getting a large-scale decentralization. Many of our young people want to come home after finishing their studies. I think it's a strong desire to do that, just to be able to participate and contribute in their community. Many are lucky and find relevant work, but very many do not. Then it often happens that someone comes home for Christmas, but one does not come home for good. It's not just that people don't want to live in the districts, in smaller towns and villages – many live the good life and burn for their community. There are many young people moving out to study, and there's necessarily not a job waiting. Many would have just contributed as community developers in their home country or in their home municipality, but there is no such work. I have a great deal of understanding that graduates will continue to draw inspiration from their new fields of work, and get a new job filled. Now we're doing more to make sure that you don't necessarily have to live in a big city. With eleven regions, more people and – not least – tasks, I think the trend may be different. I don't see that one necessarily needs to stay with a view of Oslo in order to be able to attract what's the dream job. Technology makes it easier for you to live anywhere. We also need to facilitate the development of broadband, bets on local entrepreneurs and local businesses, and create ground for more jobs in the districts. I'm glad that Troms and Finnmark have found each other. I think it could make it possible for us to get a broader build of competences in the North Region policy. Not least, we are pleased that we are setting up a secretariat for the Regional North Region Forum, which is taking place in Vadsø, as well as other tasks that are now being laid down at regional level. Where others talk about long distances, I'd rather look at what this gives of possibilities. We're in a digital age. I would say that it will be less and less important where in the region you live in terms of county work. It is not the case that one runs to the extreme part of each state per day either – it is definitely not. I think that someone needs to focus more on the possibilities and – not least – on the problems that we are talking about now. When the Hagen Committee presented its proposals for tasks earlier this year, many saw these possibilities. Joining the counties was a necessity, but with the Hagen committee we also saw the great potential. One is how it was possible to disseminate tasks and to put in place skills and professional environments, which was previously impossible. However, some accuse the negotiated agreement with the Christian People's Party of being too weak, too small, too vague and that it does not mean enough jobs. The opponents are dangling – it could be that the old states could be able to merge. The laughter is loose – if any of them today claim they were on the offer page earlier. I was the rapporteur for the 2015 mission when we presented this. It was invited wide, but I did not discover that the Sivertsen party or Nordlund's party took that glove and wanted to move on. The opponents wouldn't have this, they wouldn't want it. The whole rhetoric – as we also hear today – is that there are two parties that do not want to stand for this. But the two parties are standing next to the agreement, and then I'm not worried that we're making something that's actually better, that creates that space of opportunity. It's a little bit like Woodrow Wilson's claim: if you want to get enemies, try to change something. I can say that there has been no great applause, but I think that this has been absolutely necessary in order for us to at all have the will to decentralize tasks – other than empty rhetoric that is led from especially two parties in this room. I think this was a necessity. If we want to build skills in the districts too, we have done the right thing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2644	The government believes that society is best built from below. This means that services are to be decided and provided as close to the population as possible. That's why we want to move problems closer to people. The Government's proposal for task transfer requires larger and fewer counties in order to have the necessary capacity and competence. The regional reform represents the largest structural and responsibilities change for county municipalities since their establishment. It gives new opportunities and a new give to the county councils. I am pleased that Troms and Finnmark have now started the important work of building a new county municipality. On 19 October, I presented the paper on tasks for new regions. Here the government presents its assessment of the tasks that should be transferred to the county municipalities. Then it is that the government parties and the Christian People's Party have reached agreement on task transfer and regional reform, and the content of this consensus is thus the basis of the big message. Regional reform shall strengthen the county community as a social developer. It is both about strengthening the professional communities in the county and on several instruments to develop the county in the desired direction. Let me give you some examples. Industry: The county councils are to be strengthened as an industrial policy actor by being given the contracting authority responsibility for the instruments of Innovation Norway and SIVA. Agriculture: the county councils are responsible for the development of a regional food programme, as the county today does. Transport: the joint road administration, the extended TT regime and the broadband subsidy scheme shall be transferred. Competence: the county councils will have a stronger role in terms of competence policy by identifying regional skills needs, disseminating these needs to educational institutions and facilitating the provision of requested training and training measures. Integration: the county councils should be given greater responsibility in the area of integration by qualifying immigrants to meet regional labour market needs. The Culture Communication proposes moving tasks from the country to the county municipalities. It is proposed that current funding for actions and events with a strong local and regional anchoring, which do not have an established position at national level, be transferred to the county municipalities. The county councils are to be given greater responsibility for public health work because grants are to be transferred from the Health Directorate and the County. We also strengthen the northernmost county municipalities with tasks in the field of Northern Region policy. Everything is not ready for transfer yet. Some of the tasks therefore have to be further investigated. We do that in order to get the best decision base possible. But the intention is very clear: the government and the bulk of the population will transfer additional tasks to the county municipalities. A comprehensive review of the nutritional instrument shall be carried out. The Ministry of Knowledge will present a major communication on early and inclusive communities. It shall also be examined whether the county councils are to be given greater responsibility for the training of young people aged 16 to 24 years, so that all students are given a more real opportunity to undertake secondary education. We also need to look at how the counties can be responsible for internalisation in the regions and other regional coordination of integration policies, and we need to investigate whether a transfer of child protection tasks from Bufetat will provide a reinforced offer to children and families who need it. Some principles are underlying: the Norwegian county councils are generalist municipalities. This means that all county councils, irrespective of population, housing structure or other circumstances, shall meet the same requirements for services, planning and development tasks and the provision of democratic functions. With the regional reform, we move power and authority from the state to the county municipalities. Greater responsibilities in several areas can help revitalize the state democracy. We don't move problems because we have to. We move tasks to the regions because we believe it will create better services and better social development in the regions – for the benefit of citizens, society and business.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2688	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2693	I share the government's intention to move more tasks, power, authority and instruments to the states because I think it will provide better solutions. And then we have different insights into how clearly we want it to be decided today. There has been a rather long process, and my question to the Council of State is: in retrospect, is there something the Council of State would have done differently in this process, if she had added up to a new round of mergers and task transfers to the counties?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2700	I'm among those who always think that things can be done better and different, and that you always learn from the experiences you get. I think that this process will also show. However, this reform is not implemented, completed and ready for evaluation. We're in the middle of the job. It's hard work, and it's hard work for many. It has been demanding for this hall, it has been demanding for the government, but above all it has been demanding for those who stand out there, those who are employed in the county councils, those who are politicians in the county councils, and who are now working on this. But I want to say that I am here with a list – I think I have listed eight attempts from 1992 to implement a regional reform. It never worked. Now we're about to succeed. I think this is going to be good. So we could definitely do something better.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2707	I thank you for your answer. Then I'll meet the assessments the Council of State makes, once she's got all the processes to be carried out, on the table. It was now at least a willingness to assess whether one could learn from this process. Another issue that was now raised, and which I have also mentioned in my post, is linked to the north-area funds. This government is – and not least was the previous government – concerned that the northern regions are a strategically important area for the nation. The purpose of transferring about half of the Arctic 2030 funds must be to build up under national policies in an international context. I have been concerned that North Norway consists of more than one county municipality, possibly two, a little depending on the time we consider it. How does the Council of State feel that these funds need to be put in place — what are they to be used for, how are they to be allocated to build up under national interests?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2714	Firstly, I have sometimes said – and I just have to repeat it – that it is the sector principle that exists. We coordinate in the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, but it is the individual department that is now following up the work to be done. In the case of the Arctic 2030, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is going to work on this. Then the representative probably heard that I was talking about the county municipalities, i.e. Nordland, Troms and Finnmark, which are now becoming two, and which are both going to help build up this competence. I have to be very honest and say that I perceive that it was a very good initiative that came into the negotiations between Troms and Finnmark at Gardermoen, when they got the help of a mediation person to mediate themselves to an agreement earlier, this winter. That agreement was not implemented, but it was the first time that we saw the possibility of building up a special competence in Northern Region policy to a greater extent than we had done in the past, because we had more capacity. That is what we have done in this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2721	The centre party has been the biggest driver in the whole process of getting the most tasks out to the states, and we're also putting in considerably more tasks today than the majority will transfer. At the same time, we are becoming increasingly concerned, because after the budget decision on Friday, we see that there are strong cuts in the framework transfers to the county, broadband cuts, strong cuts in regional research funds and regional development funds, etc. At the same time, the Government points out that the role of regional development actors should be strengthened. All county councils pointed out in the hearing that they would like to have a greater role to play in the job of social development and a strengthened role as a regional development actor, but that this task was impossible to achieve in a satisfactory way without funding. And with what it was now up to, they didn't have the opportunity to carry out that role satisfactorily. How does the State Council think this should happen when the toolbox is almost empty?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2728	I totally disagree with the premise that the questioner uses to answer the question. It's not like the toolbox is empty in any way. It's the county councils that are winners in the budget next year. The proportion of 16- to 19-year-olds falls dramatically. Then the rules are that when the demography goes down, money is withdrawn, and when the demography goes up, you get money added. We're not pulling these means out, we're assigning them to highways, where the red-green government gave us a very expensive gift in the form of the highway network, with a huge aftermath. We've been spending money to fix this in several rounds, including next year, and you're going to have to keep a solid framework to be able to do your own priorities based on your own challenges in the different county municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2736	I dare remind you that the Central Party's alternative budget is probably 1.5 billion. more to the county than the government provides, and since the red-green 2014 budget proposal, regional development funds are more than halved. At the same time, the government itself says that precisely these funds show very good effect, and that the companies that have received from these funds show a much better development than those that have not. But now to something completely different. There is still mass in this setting to be investigated and evaluated, etc., and we know that 2021 is coming very quickly. The states are just as uncertain about what to do after 2021, as they were before this treatment in very many areas. When can we expect a final clarification of all the tasks to be assessed and investigated? Can we expect that to be resolved before 2021?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2743	First to the economy. I was talking about the frame. The frame is solid because the demography goes down. I wasn't talking about regional development funds. I've heard repeatedly in Stortinget how much hit security they have, but then one forgets to say that there's a very small proportion of them, that's what goes to innovation-oriented instruments in Innovation Norway. But there is history so that, over these years, we have heavily filled up other parts of Innovation Norway’s instruments that have greater success certainty. And then we've added to the county roads every year because we feel that it's much more important than the use of regional development funds for the rest. Then the Communication makes it clear that there are different processes going on in different departments. For something, we just need to move a budget entry, something needs to change the law, and something needs to be properly reviewed with the parties – there are employees involved here, so it needs to be done in a proper way. So there are different time courses based on different problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2750	When the Council of State now says that they expect to succeed in this reform, I expect the Right to abandon the idea that the county council should be brought down. If not, this work is quite in vain. I would like to ask the Council of State about a point that has been very important for the SV, and it is to strengthen the decentralised higher education throughout the country. There is now some funding available to higher education institutions and universities, and some municipalities and municipalities have used their own resources to establish such resource centres. I have been a part of getting started one, in 1989, which still lives in the best of luck and works very well. Does the Council agree that the possibility to increase skills locally also at higher education level is a very important instrument both for regional development and for industrial development in District Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2759	This point has not been dealt with in the Hagen selection. The UH sector is responsible for research and higher education, including the decentralised sector, and has a number of decentralised solutions. I saw the proposal from SV, and we have not found any own ear-marked grants that can be decentralised. This is handled by the UH sector. They make their assessments based on the professional and market demand among students. And then I'm familiar with the fact that you've made these centers somewhere. They are made of municipalities and some clusters and are good contributions that you have chosen to prioritise yourself. But it's not like here we have some grants to move over, which this message is about.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2766	There must be a big misunderstanding, because the higher education sector has a subsidy for this. It is also possible to establish such grants if it is considered important. I really miss that the Council of State can see that it can be a new, good instrument. But then to the second, to the competence of some of the areas proposed moved, namely climate, environment and nature protection. There we refer to the EVAPLAN research project, where it is evident that climate, nature and environmental considerations are very often lost in planning processes. It's quite serious. It's serious when it happens in the municipalities, it's serious when it happens in the county municipalities. What is the reason why the government does not believe that we need to ensure that there is competence in these key areas in the municipal sector, as proposed by SV, for example. in biodiversity and climate follow-up. Now, when you're going to take even more away from the county and transfer it to the county councils, they have to have competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2775	Decentralised education is the UH sector responsible for it. That's what I said in my post. I believe that the UH sector is best qualified for that. This has not been a notification to transfer the independent decision and the professional assessments made by the UH sector to the counties. I do not believe the county councils have competence in that. But the county councils are going to develop even more competence to see the needs of both those who are in education, those who are in work, have, and not least those who are going to work, for integration, have – so we're going to work on it. With regard to the plan page of the question, we have not wanted to create over-municipalities. We do not want county politicians to rule the local politicians. Local government politicians carry out their land assessments. If someone is going to override them, the government, the ministry, is going to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2782	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2787	New division of the country, new major tasks for new states and the democratic reform we had not seen before – this was part of what we heard when new counties were to be put in place and new tasks were to come. And what did that end with? More and Romesdal and Rogaland were at peace, standing alone, while it was strictly required to join Eastfold, Akershus and Buskerud because they wanted a strong metropolitan region. But the capital of Oslo was not to be included! Oslo should be in the middle of the new Week and divide the Week into two geographical parts. Where is the logic when one of the main things was to make it easier to see living and working regions together, and then you leave out the very hub of public transport and the working region as well as Oslo is for Akershus, Buskerud and Østfold? It is said that a common region of residence and work was important. I have asked the question earlier, but I have not received what I would call a sensible answer. Do you still believe that Halden and Hemsedal are a natural common housing and labour market, where the commuting can go seamlessly and the distance is reasonable to make an honest day's work of commuting? The problem was, and is still, that the government together with the Left and Christian People's Party started at the wrong end. They didn't say which problems to solve. They thought it was easier just to draw maps -- a map of the new states, which ended up without what I would call head and tail. A Viking with 1.2 million inhabitants set up against e.g. More and Romesdal give no reasonable balance. Now we're there. The new county boundaries have been adopted up to several times. We have to look at the problems. But the division of tasks did not start very smoothly for the government either. In fact, there was a large number of people who had to tell the government that the task message would be on the table this fall. When the government first came up with the problems, probably many states were disappointed. When the premise was laid, the government said that it was the least county that would be the leader of the problems. What happened, once again, to the logic that we had to get giganticly filled with the Viking, while other states with less population than Eastfold alone did not have to collide? The Christian People's Party bears a great responsibility here. We could contribute to a more sensible solution. They let it go. The government's investigation has now come into place and is being discussed here in the Chamber. It is in itself good that it has arrived, but in general the government shows that it has to be investigated here and here it has to be assessed. ‘Examining’ and ‘valuing’ new tasks are mentioned more than 80 times, and after a few years the government has been working on the division of tasks. You might hope for something more and something more precise than so many new investigations and assessments. The Labour Party is in favour of new tasks for the counties, and that is why we also have a separate proposal here in the Chamber today. It would have been to hope that there could be a majority for that. In any case, work on divisional tasks in the counties will continue and, of course, the Workers' Party will participate constructively in the implementation of these investigations and assessments. Finally, I have to say that it is promising that the Council of State so sincerely hopes that we will succeed very well in a project that she really is totally opposed to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2804	After many years of debate, a few days ago, we were able to finally establish here in the Chamber, either third or fourth times, that the regional reform has actually been agreed. It is in many ways a happy day that we can finally adopt the task transfer to the new counties. A lot of people have been waiting. The aim of the regional reform is to strengthen the county community as a regional social developer. Several decisions shall be taken by elected bodies, closer to that debt. This may be useful before, for example: rural policy, agriculture, transport, business development, integration and other issues where local and regional differences make regional politicians more able to make better decisions for the region and for the inhabitants. So not all tasks are ready for transfer. More needs to be done. Several have pointed this out today, but for the Right, it is important that good quality and good processes involve those to be involved, rather than a quantity of tasks to be decided as quickly as possible. As important as task transfer, it is to strengthen cooperation between county, regional and other regional actors, which have tasks that are important for the development of different parts of the country and which also require adaptation to regional conditions. Right-wing wants a holistic governance structure that meets the challenges in the future, where the different parts of administration work well together. Major counties also provide the basis for new tasks and responsibilities in the longer term, when new structures and tasks are well implemented, as we will adopt today. A commitment to fulfil a strategic role as a social developer and to meet societal challenges is closely linked to local and regional structures. The aim is, therefore, to make regional planning more mandatory. This will include, inter alia: provide a basis for the faster construction of the necessary infrastructure and clarification of key issues for municipalities, businesses and citizens, and it will have a better impact on State sector authorities and commit the State in these processes. It is also important to bring forward, as the Council of State said, that this regional planning should not mean that the new regions become over-municipalities. Municipalities themselves shall plan and adopt their local plans. Today's task transfers are both exciting and important for the regions. The allocation of greater responsibilities and responsibilities to the new county councils in the field of business development, with responsibility for the business environment programme, incubator programme, mentoring programmes and business networks, may make business development more targeted to the needs and merits of the regions. Within e.g. transport is transferred to the support schemes for broadband, fishing ports, the purchase of air routes, the provision of tailoring and walking and cycling routes. It's very positive. However, the role of the county council in coordinating public transport is also important in order to provide travellers with an attractive and more holistic supply. Coordination of responsibility for organised transport for the disabled will also lead to better provision for users. I think the transfer of the district of the same road administration will bring significant benefits, as distribution, planning, construction, management, operation and maintenance will be significantly more closely linked as tasks and responsibilities will be collected in the new counties. Otherwise, I'm a little impressed by the Center Party's eagerness to transfer new tasks. What they're proposing is actually just a copy of the report to the Hagen selection. It's after they've been fighting this regional reform year after year, so it's weird to listen to them. Even under the Stortinget earring, we could sit back with the impression that the Center Party supports all the critical voices that were against task transfer. The only jubilee in the Central Party must have been when they themselves put in government and were transferred for miles with miserablely maintained pathways from the state to the county councils. We're still working on this. With a broader portfolio of tasks for the new states, we will be able to give greater freedom to prioritize and adapt the provision to their needs. With new tasks and fewer municipalities, we as a society must also be able to expect reduced bureaucracy and to increase efficiency to the best of our citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2831	The rights and future of county councils have sometimes been hard debated in this Chamber. It is therefore very gratifying that, in its comments, an overall committee calls for the county council as a strong regional social developer and states that tasks that can be more appropriately addressed at a regional level should be moved from state to municipality. So it remains to see to what extent this will be followed up in practice. Right now, a lot of people out in the states are asking themselves if it's worth making so big a change for so little. Most people claim that the tasks that the government has so far put on the table are something that could easily be handled by today's states. It is a bit funny that Buskerud, Akershus and Østfold, each of which has a minimum size of more than 240 000, have to join forces in order to take over the tasks assigned to Nordland and More and Romsdal without merging. We agree with the principle of generalist municipality, but when absolutely everything is to be dimensioned according to the least of its ability to lift, the gain is not reaped from the counties, such as the counties. The fold. It is as if you were going to rig a double car to carry a package of toothpicks. It's a little bit oversized. It is very good for the Committee to state that regional tasks should be dealt with at regional level. It is a pity, therefore, that tasks in the field of nutrition, culture, competence and integration seem to be those that are the longest in the world and are being pushed out in time. The most important action that can now be taken is to give the counties greater responsibility for regional competence policy. It means both identifying regional skills needs and planning how this need can be met in partnership with, among other things. business, social partners, higher education, study associations and municipalities. This has already been done by Østfold County Municipality together with a competence forum established. In addition, county councils must be given an overall responsibility for and task of contributing to higher education for all working-age population in Norway. This is essential both in terms of business migration, outside youth and integration. There are today about 500,000 Nordics who do not have higher education. These are increasingly being pushed out of work and into sustainable benefits. At the same time, we see that the business community lacks people with skills, and that higher education, as a number of experts, is the biggest shortage. The new counties are created to do something about this mismatch between job vacancies and free hands. We have the people we have in this country. It's time to give them the skills that work needs. This I expect the government to come back to both in connection with the announced skills reform and specifically as new tasks and funding in the municipal proposition for spring. It is very correct and important for the Committee to point out that the regional state must be as consistent as possible with the new states, not as at present where the state bodies organise themselves on the crossroads, completely independent of each other and of the county municipalities. It is also important to see the location of offices in a context in order to ensure a balanced distribution of jobs and competences in the region. In the further delegation of tasks from state to municipality, it is important to focus on a comprehensive task solution with minimum silos. It is important to ensure effective services as close as possible to where people live and to adapt as much as possible to regional needs. But for this reform to succeed in the end, it depends on two words, and those words are funding and inclusion. The counties and the KS must be included in the further work and the tasks must be fully financed. It may not be such that the transfer of tasks from the State to the counties is a mere downscaling even in terms of the financial and the ability of the tasks to succeed in the county.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2855	Today, the Stortinget adopts the largest structural and responsibilities change for the county municipalities since they were established. The government parties and the Christian People's Party today decide to move more tasks closer to people. It also means that we get a historical decentralization of power and authority from the state – closer to where people live. The main task of the county is to facilitate growth and value creation in towns and cities. For the county it is about training skilled labour, building the regions together with county roads and facilitating business. It's also these tasks that we're making sure to transfer to the county municipalities today. Today, we decide to move the district of joint road administration, we set an objective to strengthen the regional research funds, the role of county councils in mobilising and qualifying business to invest more in research and development, and, in addition, the county councils are to be given extended responsibility for enhanced basic education for young people who lack it, so that even more people get a real chance to complete secondary school. These are important tasks that contribute to the creation of new jobs and involve a real transfer of power – not just the transfer of application schemes and grants. We have to move problems because we think the county councils can solve them better than they do where they are today. But to know if the problem can be solved better in the county councils than where it is being solved today, you actually depend on it being investigated. You should, for example, do that. believe that the opposition agreed with the government and the Christian People's Party. We had a longer debate earlier this year in connection with the adoption of county names, where the centre party claimed that the investigation instructions were broken because the government had used an exception in the legislation and not sent the matter to the hearing before it came to the Stortinget. Then it is quite remarkable to see how the same party does not see the need for investigation in relation to the transfer of tasks involving thousands of employees and thousands of users of the same services. That the central party believes that there is no need for investigation as much as the government parties and the Christian People's Party put it up to, you can clearly see in the setting, but you can also see how the party expressed itself in Bergen's Official Journal yesterday. There you could read: ‘One could transfer significant tasks and really built up under the county council as a regional community developer. But there is so much to be investigated, assessed and thought of, sugar Willfred Nordlund." In contrast to the opposition, I am pleased that the government parties and the Christian People's Party are engaged in properly investigating this, which also takes account of the employees. I also hear several of the representatives in the Chamber criticise the government parties and the Christian People's Party – when one has actually got a regional reform and has taken care of the structure before doing anything about the tasks. Firstly, it is quite fascinating to see what confidence the opposition has in the fact that the tasks should have come first – when history shows us that their efforts to get a regional reform stranded. Secondly, it is really important to know what conditions the county councils have in order to accept tasks before giving them the tasks. That's why it's important to first see what structure you have. In addition, I would like the opposition to have listened more to their own elected representatives in the counties when they decided whether the tasks or the structure should come first. The county rapporteur, Tore O. Sandvik, a man I otherwise rarely agree with, said the following to the Kommunal Report on 23 November 2017: ‘It was absolutely necessary to do something about the regional structure in order for the regions to be able to undertake more tasks. Continuing with 19 county councils would never have given more tasks, but would lead to impoverishment.» I'm glad that today we are adopting the greatest transfer of tasks closer to people ever. This has been a wish through alternating governments. Now we finally get the decisions in place, and the county councils can start creating a better future for their inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2878	I begin by referring to the post that the representative Sivertsen had here at the beginning of the debate, and joining me in all the main points of view that he made in his statement. As many have been involved, the structure has been treated in the past, but it is absolutely necessary, of course, to discuss structure with tasks, as this discussion goes on. When we have had three rounds of structural treatment, it is just an expression of the Norwegian doubts about the structural organisation of this reform. Mr Bransdal, the Council of State and Mr Skjelstad say this is a democratic reform. If that's what I want to say, it could be, but it won't. It could have been if one had not actually ironized that one could enter into a broad process and discuss the problems first, and one had a broad discussion throughout the Norwegian political environment about the structure. Then it could be a broad democracy reform. It could be a strengthening of the Norwegian People's Government. But that's not what happened. The tasks will follow, and the structures will not be defended. I'm coming – and now I'm talking through the President of Bransdal – from the Viking. I have not heard one representative from the government parties who is actively going up and explaining what is good about a region that will cover 1.2 million people. I know the government parties in the area are against, but they don't want to say it. But it has to go through. If it had been for us to adopt tasks that need as large regions as the Viking, why do the Stortinget accept More and Romesdal and Rogaland? In other words, are you not able to handle the tasks that are now to be adopted, as you think you need to have larger regions, but leave some states behind? Although this has been adopted earlier, I believe that someone who is responsible for this must go up and explain it, because it is unexplained through all the processes we have had. It's unexplained, and it's very necessary to discuss it. Then we get information that the electoral commission discusses the need to divide the fold into two by rollover. This shows how serious a problem we are actually facing structurally in connection with this treatment that we have here today. So, of course, that's the distance from the voters. It gets shorter, they say. Yeah, I guess. What we are experiencing now is that in all regions large bureaucracy is being built up. The number of elected representatives will be significantly reduced. Many good party traps in all parties go out of line and lose their political platform. The rule of the people is weakened, it's not being strengthened. That's what's really going on. That you can then invoke this and say that it is a democratic reform that comes closer to the people, I do not understand. After all, I've been with some years in this political process, and I don't understand that. It could be, but it won't be with this problem we now have. So that's the question I've been dealing with so far, but which I would like both Bransdal, as rapporteur of the case, and the Council of State to answer: what tasks are now to be transferred, which is so large that we need as large regions as the Viking? What are the tasks, and how does Bransdal think that this should be able to continue when some states that are as they are today are going to be able to deal with the same problems, when she has the principle argument that she has? There are questions that the Storting should be answered before this discussion is over. Finally, it was the representative of Kjønaas Kjos who said we just want a bigger state. If that's saying, what do we do with the directorates? Are they to be built down, or are they not to be built down?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2897	An important consideration in the division of tasks between administrative levels must be to bring together related tasks at the same level. This has also led the Ministry’s assessments of the county’s tasks in the field of integration. A key objective of integration policy is to get immigrants into work. The context of the responsibilities of counties in higher education and business is therefore striking. In particular, it is important to look at how vocational training can be organised for our new citizens. Unfortunately, we have too many examples of the knowledge that individual refugees have from their past lives not being cared for and used when they come to Norway, and we are in great need of skilled workers in several crafts and disciplines. After basing on the professional competence of refugees, it is essential to find good, individually adapted paths to the jobs that actually exist. The county councils have a good starting point in order to be able to make local adjustments and to identify the regional labour demand. In this work, it is important to work closely with the municipalities and their work on the introduction programme. A central step in the government’s integration strategy is to get good, individually tailored solutions. This means, for example, coordination between Norwegian training, vocational training and — if possible — actual employment. Flexibility to plan parallel runs has been shown in several places to produce good results. Being in a job gives a sense of security and self-respect, it gives motivation, and it provides a good starting point for both language and professional training. Parallel runs probably also lower the threshold for getting a job in the private sector. Employment in Norway is high, and the need for labour is high in many places. However, if this is to have an effect on the group of new Nordics we are talking about, we need to contribute through education and housing to meeting the needs better than is the case today. In view of this, it is interesting that the government will take a closer look at the possibilities of providing the new counties with a more comprehensive responsibility for the training of young people aged 16 to 24. In these contexts, it will be possible to meet immigrants with short periods of residence — a group that is otherwise easily able to get far behind in the job queue. In this context, it is also interesting to see how the counties can play a stronger role in the internalisation of the regions. There is every reason here to look at what tasks can be transferred from the IMFI, while at the same time taking into account the national tasks of the IMFI in the context of national coordination. Generally speaking, integration policy is about doing well-adapted interventions where individual needs can be met in the best possible way. This is a lot about flexibility and local knowledge. Here the county municipalities have a good starting point with the municipalities. It is therefore interesting when the government announces a review of this. An example is the issue of the transfer of the scheme of minority advisors to the county. The relationship with high school is striking here. Many of the problems are just related to social control, which appears at the age of high school students. The same applies to Part B, which is aimed at young people who are entitled to secondary education but who do not have the necessary professional or linguistic knowledge, as well as to the mentoring and training systems. Through the integration strategy, the government signals a policy of tailoring and local adaptation. This is a political area in which we are going to make major changes, and the fact that the county council is given a role in this work also gives us an opportunity to restate the cards. A completely different theme: I've listened to the Workers' Party in particular, but also the Centre's, posts here in the Chamber. I'm thinking, isn't it soon enough to put behind the suspension of the new states? And isn't it soon enough to get over to talk about what the content would be? I understand that you are annoyed that we are getting what they themselves did not do, but now it is quite important to be able to concrete something in this area we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2918	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2923	I just have to point out to the last speaker that the importance of local democracy being heard must be absolutely fundamental when local democracy is now set to manage new tasks. There's a context here. The central party believes that regional levels are often more effective than state bureaucracy and can better provide precisely the people's rule. Governance and responsibility must be closer to those involved and affected. Firstly, two prerequisites for success are that the tasks must have concrete content and responsibilities, where the counties have confidence in solving the tasks on the basis of their assumptions, and secondly that the tasks must be fully financed, and the counties must increase the scope for action in the extension of increased responsibilities. So specifically for the problem message. I was disappointed in that. It all seemed a little ambitious. The government continues to have more investigations and ongoing projects in which the role of the counties has not yet been clarified. The notification is based on the report of the Hagen Committee, which has stated that their investigations do not go deep on the various tasks they have proposed to transfer. Now we're going to brief ourselves in chaos – everything from expert selection hand-picked by the government, ongoing investigations and work on big business messages, actions done without investigation and anchoring, to comprehensive, cross-sectoral reforms. Then it's good to know that we get this debate and treatment, where all fields are viewed in the context. What is critical, on the other hand, is the urgency and narrowing of the committee reading and the debate today. One should almost believe the government parties did not want to debate. In the areas of competence, education and research, extended responsibility for regional competence policy is now open. The role of the counties must be clear in the broad-based reform of competences. Career guidance, industrial development and industrial research are interrelated. The people are our largest resource, and now the different measures are being brought together in the counties. In addition, a comprehensive review of the economic instrument could contribute to the transfer of tasks to the county councils and to the strengthening of their role as an industrial policy actor. About 90 pst. of our enterprises have fewer than 10 employees, in which case the follow-up of small and medium-sized enterprises is crucial. More critically, the underestimation of study associations in a reform of competences, district development — with their societal tasks. A change in grants to study associations is being investigated, and we assume that adult education is being taken into account. Otherwise, I would like to point out the proposal of the Central Party No. 8, on the examination of the impact on the transfer of tasks to Statped today. Here, it is extremely important that the organisation takes the children and the tasks into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2938	The left will constantly increase, and not least we want more jobs in the districts. Through this, we also give opportunities and more influence to the inhabitants of the districts. When we raised the matter in 2014, most people thought this was impossible. That is when it is so polite for the undersigned, who in 2014 was co-rapporteur on this matter, that we have made the impossible today. It's not going to come from that this will also create quite a number of possibilities. Until now, the opposition has seen much of the challenges, or to use their words: the problems. Diagnostics are quite simple – without looking at what's possible here. I think travel is one of the great possibilities. Through the effects that lie here, and with a strong Innovation Norway that will also be involved and contribute, and where many counties own part of the nationwide sub-companies in tourism activities per day, this will provide great opportunities, for the counties own many of them. By and large, they are wholly or partly occupied by the county. This will provide opportunities that have not been there before. I've been a little surprised during the debate. The working party has largely had the handcuff on, but now it seems that they are very much in favour, but this is not the case when we started the process. There has been quite a lot of that, also in the debate we have on demarcation, on regional development, and there I fully agree with what the Council of State says. It is absolutely necessary to fill the gift that the red-green government gave in 2008, when they transferred the old highways, so that they became new highways, which were underfunded so it did monn. It seems that the Workers' Party has completely forgotten it. I would like to debate and discuss with the representative from Buskerud what is going on around the Directorates. I very much welcome a debate which I think could be interesting. I very much agree that we need to look at how the demarcation of regional states should be in relation to the new regions. Here, in my opinion, there should clearly be some contexts. It's like this is the beginning, but that doesn't mean that this is the end point for the regions. This is the beginning to look at what's possible, and it's not necessary to make the diagnosis of what people think is impossible.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2949	The center party will build the country from below. We want decisions to be made at the lowest possible level. We want it to be done close to people. We want decisions that require judgement to be taken by elected politicians and not bureaucrats. Unfortunately, we see that today's government is leading the country in a different direction. We also get more bureaucrats in the Directorates instead of more local democracy and more room for action for elected politicians. The centre party will spread power and authority all over the country. We will give the county real room for action. It's about both economic opportunities and more power and authority. More power for the states must also mean that national authorities must give up power. Major framework transfers of less detailed management and designation are needed. It will also give greater authority to the counties and give them a greater degree of opportunity to develop their operations and activities in line with their potential for social and economic development. When the government launched the regional reform, it was an explicit goal for local democracy and social development to be strengthened. Now we see that poor planning and implementation by the government means that the whole of regional reform ends up with massive resistance and demonstrations. The government has launched a regional reform that now nobody wants. Both the Right Party and the Advance Party themselves say that they do not want a regionally elected level, so we may not be surprised that enthusiasm and idealism are not there when the job is done. Instead of starting with which tasks could be decentralised and how local advantages could be exploited, the government started with the opposite – drawing a map. It was not then known which tasks to carry out, and the urgency of the reform has led to a bad process. A key instrument for regional contribution to the development of economic activity and the exploitation of regional advantage are regional development funds. When someone says they don't hit, it's exactly the means that make a get to an interaction between the municipalities, the county and those who want to get to growth. Unfortunately, we see that the government has cut these funds, year after year after they took over. Why do you do that all over the world? It should have been a motivation to make sure you got excited about this reform. One year before most mergers enter into force, the tasks of the new regions are still completely blue. Many investigations and clarifications remain before it is clear. We fear that the division and only partial relocation of various tasks from the Directorates leads to simply not knowing what tasks the counties will have in the future. It's quite serious.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2960	I know from previous experience that it is dangerous to talk about hens in this assembly, but there is great doubt about what came first – the chicken or the egg. I don't know what we're going to define as the chicken or the egg, but at least I'm recording that it's using a lot of energy to talk about dividing up -- this has to be almost the fourth rematch. And if the representative Kolberg had been in the room on December 6, we would also have had ample opportunity to discuss it. It is far past to discuss this, because it was decided when the Christian People's Party bowed its head to it, because this reform means so much to us. And this is just the beginning. I was also challenged by what tasks were big enough for us to do something about the regions. It's a composition of a task portfolio that's going to get bigger and bigger. The Council of State was incredibly clear that the purpose of the investigations was to transfer power and authority to the regions – it was not just to investigate it and put it in a drawer. As I said, here we have to have a willingness to decentralize, and therefore the four cooperating parties take responsibility for this job going on and not tracking off as other processes have done before. That's why we also say that this is a major democratization process, because the decisions are being moved closer to the users. We have also heard the rhetoric that the Right Party and the Progressive Party do not want a regional reform. Yes, that was the starting point, but an agreement has been reached between four parties to develop the regional level, so it's the snow that fell in the past – at least – if you're going to discuss it. So the representative Knutsdatter Strand said here that the expert committee was hand-picked by the government. Then I find it incredibly remarkable that the Center Party presses the expert selection to its chest and will decentralize all the tasks of the expert committee, otherwise with a line that requires 240 000 inhabitants in the regions to decentralize the tasks. Finally to the representative Nordlund, about something that I would like to have a clarification on, because I do not know if I heard errors when I heard that all municipalities in the future will be too small: should the county municipality be a overcommunal, or should the municipalities become several more, according to the will of the centre party, because there are tasks coming out?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2975	The centre party has always been the main driver of more task transfer to the county. The representative Trellevik here suggested that we have not made any new proposals – it was just a copy of the Hagen committee report that we launched here today. Then I think he has to take a little delight on the timeline, because the tasks we have proposed here today, we also promoted during the discussion of Report. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. The Hagen Committee presented its report in February 2018. It is quite possible that the Hagen committee has been lazy and has only taken our proposals and made them their own, but in the case of the representative, Trellevik, it will have to do so. My immediate reaction when they presented their report was that this was surprisingly parallel to the thinking of the Center Party. Our opposition to the government's regional reform is only about coercion of states. The coercion shows that the government has no desire whatsoever to strengthen local democracy and get a more decentralised government. The foundation was centralisation, and it's a big challenge. The centre party wants a significant transfer of tasks to the county councils, but we have always been clear that it does not require coercion of counties. Today's counties are big enough to solve today's problems. They're big enough to solve the problems that have been proposed, and they're also big enough to deal with more and more problems. It admits the government far on the way because they say that More and Romesdal are more than large enough to continue as their own country. That is why the Centre Party proposes a much more offensive task transfer, and it is much more extensive and will give far more authority to the state level than is agreed upon here today. For us in the Centre Party, there is a very central premise on the basis of task transfer, namely that all new tasks must be fully financed. It is essential that the county has financial opportunities to perform its tasks — both today’s tasks and new tasks. In this context, it is very worrying that the government in the budget for 2019 cuts in items such as: framework transfer to county municipalities, regional development funds, broadband and regional research funds. These are the resources currently being used by the county councils for basic tasks and for the social development mission claimed by the government to strengthen them through regional reform. If the Storting believes that the counties should have a strengthened role as regional development actors, it must be filled with funds and the role must be entrusted to them. The government has had several years to find out what kind of tasks would be transferred. Counties should have been given a much clearer clarification. The centre lot expects all tasks in the notification proposed or assessed to be transferred and, in cases where an investigation has been proposed, it is necessary to investigate how the task is to be transferred, not whether the task is to be transferred.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e2986	The Council's reply to me in the reply made me quite worried. First of all, when I talk about, and ask about, the necessary skills in the new states, it's not about over-communities. It's about what the government is proposing. And this research report, EVAPLAN, shows that there is quite a bad situation in the municipalities. So now the county councils have to be given greater responsibility, and then our concern is to take the environment that is in the county and divide it into two – so that there will be again some control tasks at the county council and some tasks in the county councils – and that both of these environments become too weak to carry out the important task they have. These are very important tasks, which depend on maintaining some of the national targets, and not least on what we are responsible for internationally. So the Council of State is completely wrong about what the question was about. SV has suggested that we have to set some competence requirements for these environments, so that we know that there is actually competence there to take on the tasks that are. The second concerns decentralised higher education. Then I am almost even more startled that the Council of State has not got along with how it works. It is not that universities and colleges necessarily have the same interest as industry or the different regions of the country. On the contrary, many of them want to gather as much as possible on campus. That means that very many people don't get the higher education they need and the company needs. We've done this in many places. In my state there are Kongswinger and Tynset who have been doing a lot of this. I've been on the Kongswinger sail since 1989. There has been former knowledge minister Røe Isaksen and praise it in the clouds, and that is good reason. It's about the county councils having used the means to get this done, i.e. the organisation, the monitoring – what is the need, what education is available, and where? – and tried to locate them locally when needed. This is what needs to be done, and all the county councils we've been talking to in this process for years, say that perhaps the most important regional policy development tool we can get is some own means of facilitating this. You can take education from other countries – including Kongswinger, it is fully possible – and make sure that it is in place. And those who carry out these decentralised educations do it very well, and they often do it together with working, because that's absolutely necessary. Many of these do not move from their family to another place and take education for many years, but they carry out with brilliance when this is possible to do where they live.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e3000	Two words about topics that have been little affected in the debate so far: the first is culture. Culture is all-round important for building identity, and it's what the new states need, it's identity. I haven't heard – and I'm really calling for – any ambitions or ideas from the government parties about the role of culture in the new states. We waited a long time for the cultural message. It's come and delivered to the committee, but it's still very vague. It is said that no more funds should be used. It is the most important thing to establish, but you do not take a concrete position, I think, on the proposals of the Hagen Committee. So the ambitions of the government parties for culture are demanded. The second theme is international cooperation. Today's counties are members of a number of international organisations, whether towards the Baltic Sea, towards the North Sea or others. They cooperate widely internationally to find ‘best practice’ in order to secure funding for development and to resolve common problems jointly with their neighbours. It's very strange that the task message is completely missing an international dimension, except for the northern one. Several tools for international cooperation are essential for regional development, and this should be left behind by the government, not least in the work on a new INTERREG programme. So it's illogical and sad that the Ministry of Transport has put down the feet for state-owned purchases of train routes. The least popular group that the Vikings should be responsible for is to coordinate bus and train services more closely so that there are more seamless transfers, so that trains can be used for a local collective service, and so that there are no competing and overlapping routes between bus and train. Outside the counties, there are already reports of a lack of funds for the conversion work and that current counties have to take from current means of operating to carry out the conversion. This is not the way to build a robust county municipality. When it is reported that more funds are needed for conversion, the Ministry should at least be open to consider it — both where there are more than two confluences and in terms of population and size of the county.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e3015	Today, the central party proposes to ask the government to follow up the expert selection and review the organisation of hospitals, where one thing is done out of a county municipal model. The Hagen selection has assessed the geographical level best suited to the provision of specialist health services. They have assessed whether the specialist services should adapt to regional conditions and whether they should be more subject to regional policy priorities. The answer to this is yes. They write that the transfer of ownership to the county municipality could give added impetus to regional policy judgement, especially on localisation issues. This will have two effects, according to the selection: for the first, localisation decisions will reflect regional land and transport plans, and for the second, decisions will be taken by a body that debates the options in the open forums, and by politicians who can be held responsible for the choices being made. The selection thinks that both of these changes are desirable. The Hagen Committee recommends that the organisation of hospitals be reconsidered. A county model should be included in these assessments, and until then a funding mechanism should have been put in place to provide stability in the financing of university hospitals. But the government refuses to follow up the Hagen selection at this point. The Government Party, the Labour Party and the Christian People's Party show in the setting that the Stortinget agrees to continue today's governance model in the context of the 2018 state budget on the basis of the Kvinnsland Committee's report. But the Women's Country Selection did not make up a regional model. They did not get the task of the government to evaluate alternatives to the enterprise model. They were tasked with proposing changes to the business model, but where there were still companies and corporate governance. The term of office of the Women's Country Committee was strongly criticised, including by members of the selection. So the women's country selection is not an argument to invalidate Hagen's hospital recommendation. Let it be quite clear: the Center Party has programmed that we will terminate the Health Agency model and take the hospitals back to government and public administration. We will pass on state ownership, but transfer today's regional responsibility to the elected state hospital board of state elected by and among the county council members to govern within the framework of the Stortinget in a governing national health and hospital plan. It states that tasks that are regional in character should be resolved at regional level, and it is incomprehensible that this should not apply to our health services.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e3028	The regional state is coordinated with the new counties, has been mentioned here, and it was important to look at it. Yes, then I ask if we can get some clarification on the overall already tonight. Are we going to have one Nav in the Week, or are we going to divide it into two, as we've heard that someone's taking the floor because the Week was too big? Do we need a State Road Service in the Gulf? What is the way of thinking about those things about regional states? Then we are taught by the representative Holm Lønseth that it is important that we listen to the local and regional level. The politicians out there are very important that we listen to, teaching the representative Holm Lønseth from the Right Workers' Party about. It may be that the representative Holm Lønseth will see himself quite thoroughly in the mirror and bring with him the rest of his party – and would like to take with him the Progress Party, Left and, in part, also the Christian People's Party – because if there is any one who has shown no ability to listen to what the local and regional elected level has meant, it is Holm Lønseth and her party and her government comrades with the Christian People's Party on draw. They've coerced municipalities, they've coerced counties. Is that what the representative Holm Lønseth thinks is listening to the local elected level? Or what is she really trying to teach us about that topic? She is not very credible when it comes to that matter. Then I registered that the representative Bransdal canceled the Right and Advance Party policy – considering that they are now for the third elected level. It was interesting to notice that now the situation is like this. Finally, it has been saddened that the government, which is behind the regional reform here, has been criticised. Yes, it is absolutely necessary to give criticism, because the process has been completely miserable. There have been poor political craftsmanship from the start, which has led us to much more noise and trouble than had been necessary. The government could choose to go another way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e3039	I would like to express my acceptance of the criticism of Mr Bransdal's representative that I should have been here on 6 December and not now repeat the arguments in that debate, in her opinion. Now, of course, the representative Bransdal knows that we don't have the opportunity to be present, so I think it's a bit unreasonable to use that argument. But it's got to be. When I say what I'm saying, it's because what I'm talking about is the implementation of the problems, which are related to the structure. I noticed that the representative Bransdal did not answer my questions on a principle basis. I do not know if the Council of State intends to take the floor any more, but in any case we should again have a clear explanation of the following problem: Moor and Romesdal, and Rogaland, are allowed to continue as their own counties, but Buskerud is not. The county council in Buskerud, Akershus and Eastfold have said no to the region. But the government says that, you have to, because the problems are so big that you have to be big to do this. But this does not apply to other states, and in relation to the matter that the Storting is dealing with today, about the tasks, I will have an answer to the following before this is over – I cannot demand it, but I believe it is important that we get an answer to it: What is the logic of the principle thinking on the part of the majority parties? That's what it's not being answered, not in any debate on these questions. Of course, it's because it's not possible to answer, because the drawing that's about the structure in relation to the problems is not related. That is why it is so-called sutring that the representative, Olemic Thommessen, is involved. It is not sutring; it is real political debate and issues that are crucial to the future regional level in Norway. For how is this going to go, and how is it going to end? So we're left with a lot of investigations, as other representatives have pointed out, but we're also left with questions, because when we were going to transfer so many tasks to the regions, the assumption was that the state system would be built down. There's no plan for the directors. At the same time, we are building up large bureaucracies at regional level, and the number of elected representatives is falling considerably. This must be a concern in view of the tasks that will also be carried out, and that is why I am keeping these slightly committed posts on behalf of Norwegian democracy and democracy. This is not a good reform, and that is why the debate is going to be what it is going to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e3050	The representative, André N. Skelstad, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e3055	I had probably hoped that the representative Kolberg would also have brought with him Nordland, who did not get an adjustment – just to correct it. I hear the debate here and only have one minute. I want to say, what's the brake here, as the representative Kolberg brings up? Well, if we want to reform the generalist principle, of course, it's an opportunity to take far greater action than this. With regard to the same road administration, which has been called for by a lot of state politicians in the past, it is clear that there is a need to adjust. It would not have been possible with the very smallest states, at least not as long as the generalist principle should be maintained. To the representative Toppe: Yes, please, welcome, but then we have to see the whole. It is not possible to outsource the health enterprise with the structure of 19 counties. Otherwise, I find it very positive in what the representatives of the Labour Party are involved in the debate, but nothing new from the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e3066	I thought I'd draw an equation here now. When you have to wash a staircase, a ladder usually starts at the top – at least I do – and washes downwards. It's important to get a good result. The government, with the support of the Christian People's Party, has, in my view, started if not at the bottom, so not far away. This applies to both the municipal reform and the regional reform, where different sizes of municipalities apply to both the population and the size of the area. This is incomprehensible to most people, or people out in both the village and the city. I'm incredibly happy that I'm from More and Romesdal, and that we're allowed to be owned by states. I'll come back a little later. What's important for us to be able to maintain good municipalities and good counties, I don't think is necessarily the size, but the frame. Transfers must be made to enable municipalities and county councils to carry out the tasks imposed on them by the state and government. If you get plenty of money, or at least enough to do good services, the municipalities do this in an excellent way. Then both the municipalities and the municipalities deliver. I would like to give an example, because it was about a representative instead that the school was so bad: never before has more education been completed and passed on since the knowledge promise was introduced in 2006. The national numbers have increased by about 5 percentage points. More and Romsdal can refer to a result of 76 pst. which has been completed and passed in five years. There they received both a diploma and a diploma. Our goal is 79 pst. We're a small country, a small region, but we're close and we're running good services for the inhabitants, and we're delivering – only we're getting good frames transferred. Then we're talking about closeness to local democracy. I have a big problem understanding that when a greater distance from where decisions are to be taken, it helps to strengthen local democracy. I can't believe and understand it. What happens is that there will be more bureaucracy and fewer politicians out there to make decisions for people close. In any case, it does not help to strengthen democracy, in my view, that one is now creating large regions that are far from the people most.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e3077	The architects, the proponents, for this reform are the Christian People's Party and the Left, who have reluctantly got with them the Right and the Advance Party in an agreement, which is referred to over and over again. These are the ones that are most vague in this debate. They're still talking about this being just the beginning: after all, this has to be debated, we still have to think completely. So this is one year before you start a giant reform. Here, tasks should have been formulated as missions to the states on what to do in a year's time. It's still completely blue what to do and not do. There are people, and you hire people, in the administration today who are going to do a job – and then we sit and debate and wonder if it should be. Nothing new from the Center Party, it was said. Who in the world refers to most new tasks in the position we are debating now? Yes, it's the Center Party and the Workers' Party. Listen to Kjersti Toppe, who addresses a very central issue that had meant a great deal to democracy – taking responsibility for healthcare in the new regional enterprises. We can't do that, says Skkelstad – we have to think completely. It's one more year. Everyone knows what the Central Party believes about regional reform, the size of the counties and coercion. I think that's what most people have brought with them. But everyone also knows that the problems we want are going down to that level, is what is being presented today. I sincerely hope that the Christian People's Party and the Left support the proposals that the Central Party and the Workers' Party, or the minority, are now making. That's what we're going to do and build what the Christian People's Party and the Left believe is the big new building block that's going to shape a society that's going to be built from below. The remaining investigations and the lack of clarifications by the government lead to uncertainty among both employees and elected representatives. What you claim to be a popular reform is not. The representative of Skjelstad is pleased that Finnmark and Troms have found together, he said instead. I guess that says everything.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e3092	I would recommend the last speaker to take a talk with his own party trap in Sogn and Fjordane, because there is a real enthusiasm for this reform. I have a very clear feeling that those who have been against it all along are still against it. It's not so surprising, it's perhaps surprising that you invoke the same arguments as if they were new. The debate today is not a structural debate – it is not that we need to discuss structure today. This has been done in the Storting for a year and a half now. I believe that at some point in time, the opposition must consider that the structure was laid in June 2017. There was a structure that was initiated and motivated by a majority in this hall. We had a new debate on it last December, and then we had another debate. The opposition says that it is their sun-clearer right to promote counter-proposals. I totally agree with that. It's a sunshine right, and you can keep doing that, but you can't expect the same commitment from the majority, which means that the majority should be respected. I was out a little early before my debate today. Then it was interesting to hear what the Senterpartiet said about predatory policy, because then there were no limits to the respect you should have for the bulk of the population: it had to be the government, and it had to be the majority of the population. So the majority you're in favour of, while you're against, you don't have to respect. The structure is added, and I think it was very wise. I think afterwards will show that it was wise. They didn't say it had to be because they gave you new problems, they said it made sense. Based on the dramatic changes in the world over the last 50 years, the states should also do it – based on the tasks they have today, the tasks that were decided on last June, and the tasks they adopt today. We're also saying we're going to go on. Of course, we should also ensure that tasks are transferred both to counties and to municipalities – because it is wise to do so. The representative of Lauvås had a visit when it came to the state's arrangement. I thought perhaps Lauvås was familiar with the report that came last week. On behalf of the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, Divi has carried out a review of eleven states: Nav, Innovation Norway, Husbanken, IMDi, Bufetat, Staats vägvesen, NVE, Fisheries Directorate, Police, Civil Defence and the Coastal Agency. There are three thematic reviews. The report was posted online and a press release was sent. That's interesting reading. The report is now being consulted, and we are going to discuss the implications of it in the government when we get in touch with the consultation proposals. But don't worry that we don't take seriously the fact that regional states also have a potential for improvement in the way they reorganize this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e3105	The representative Karin Andersen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e3110	There's two reasons why structure comes up. One is that it is coercive, and one claims that it is democracy. The second is that you haven't answered the question: why do you need a new structure for these problems? So you don't have to. For road administration together, you don't have to. One of the things that concerns me too is that it is only the Workers' Party and the SV who assume that no employees will be cancelled as a result of the change of duties. We can now risk the rest of the Vegvesen being heavily centralised. I think that's a consequence of what we see now, and then, to say it like that, the decentralization might not be that big. Then to a hospital. SV will also remove the business model. We want to get this under political control, but I can't see that it can be done with the old state structure. It is not then possible to deal with the state structure that is now being adopted by force. Then we have to have other regions, and therefore it is important to get it back under democratic control first.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e3118	It is obvious that the strategy here has been to try to make a story that everyone other than the government parties is against change. But now it has been pointed out many times that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV present a wide range of proposals that go beyond the government. There is no one in this Chamber who has said that they are against strengthening democracy, against strengthening the states' spaces of action. We have also proposed and put forward concrete proposals on this. For the Workers' Party, we also have a solid commitment to the county's financial framework in our alternative budget for 2019 – once again – because we believe that county municipalities have been reduced in their capacity to do what they are doing through this task transfer, just to be stronger community developers. We have followed it up with concrete proposals. So then it doesn't help to stand here on the pulpit of the Storting and try to create another story, which doesn't really have a root. So I have experienced that I and my colleagues from the Workers' Party are characterised as being in the process of sutring when we address the concern that we hear people have. Because it is not right that the rapporteur says, that the structure is something that is past a long time ago. That debate is still going on among the people. When the representative of Skkelstad claims that Troms and Finnmark have come together, it must be a while since Skkelstad was in Finnmark – or Troms for that matter – and discussed this issue with someone who actually lives there, because they do not recognize the problem described in Oslo, they do not recognize themselves in the medicine that Oslo prescribes for them, nor do they recognize themselves in the solutions proposed. Then you have to disagree with them. But to say that we, who take this up and point out that it is related to the content, are suing from the pulpit – President, I actually didn’t think it was a parliamentary expression, but I have learned that it is today. So I have now heard the representative of Skkelstad talk about how to include everyone etc., referring to 2016 and that no one would be involved then. The representative of Skkelstad jumps over, which is the premise that the invitation came with. It was premise that you couldn't accept. But this year, on the contrary, a majority of the majority in the United Kingdom found themselves asking for an overall review. We agreed on that. The debate today also shows that there is a broad consensus on transferring tasks and powers. That's why I took it up and said that I was disappointed that you didn't pick it up and provided a wider anchoring and a wider majority in this room. The matter had been raised. I think we'd get better solutions and less political shuffling about it. But it's the majority. They have to bear responsibility. Of course, we have to respect that. But we're not sutring, we're talking our voters' case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e3129	I'm going to use at least the opportunity to sue with a little confidence, as well as the representative Lønneth thought the Center Party was claiming too much. I have to thank the representative for referring to what I myself said to the Official Journal of Bergen earlier. It is clear that that criticism still stands after the discussion we have had so far, and the signals that have come to light in this debate. Here, Stortinget had an opportunity to really decentralize jobs, power and authority to the county councils, but it has to be investigated, evaluated and thought about. I think we can point that out with good self-confidence from the Central Party. It is not a way to implement either this reform or a way that we believe is appropriate for a number of the areas proposed by the Hagen Committee, which was essentially a follow-up to the same proposals promoted by the Centre Party in 2016 through the review of the Notice. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. The representative Trellevik would have brought it if he had read the setting. It's not like the Center Party is running a blueprint of the Hagen Committee. We can strongly claim that in that case, the opposite is the case. I noticed with interest the Council's response on land disposal and the principle of over-municipalities. No, the Central Party does not have a target for any over-municipality, but I note that the Council of State believes that it should be over-ruled, at least it should be done properly. Then there's going to be a state bureaucrat or department that does it, and not that you can come up with a solution with county municipalities where you have regional opportunities and views on matters, as we want to know if maybe it might be appropriate when we look at it in the longer term. Many have addressed the need for more coordination. The representative from SV said that today a regulation has been put in place that the county councils should now be deprived of the possibility to operate with express buses, i.e. the concessions to drive express buses, if it is more than 50 km. It is in stark contrast to what Mr Trellevik said in his speech that greater coordination should now be established between the state and county levels of public transport. That's the opposite. It is to be excluded from the possibility of effective coordination. It is absolutely amazing that the government can stand and boast of greater coordination and better opportunities to solve transport challenges, which is what it is actually about here – how people should get to work and how school students should get to school. On the one hand, greater coordination is needed, but on the same day you claim it with a loud voice, the government presents a regulation that deprives the county of the same possibilities. It's ironic.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e3138	The representative Stein Erik Lauvås has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e3143	I record that the Council of State stands clearly, strongly and clearly in the pulpit and says: the world has changed, then the counties must also change, except for Rogaland, Morene and Romesdal and so far as Northernland. In those states, according to the views of the Council of State, time is still. There is an ominous signal from the Council of State at the brink of this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e3148	I have a comment on the objections to our proposal to decentralise hospital management. The majority type in the setting that they are ‘Remarks that the government refers to the Storting joining forces to continue today’s governance model in the context of the treatment of the state budget for 2018, and that, on this basis, it is not considered appropriate to follow up the proposal to re-evaluate the reorganisation of hospitals.’ What was in the state budget was a reference to the Women's Country Committee's report, and I made a point in my previous statement that the Women's Country Committee did not have the mandate to sort out alternatives to the enterprise model. Therefore, it is incomprehensible that a user uses this as an argument for not going into our proposal. Our proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to follow up the recommendations of the Committee of Experts and to re-assess the organisation of hospitals with a view to transferring responsibilities for hospitals and DPS to the new counties.’ The debate has now been claimed – not so much is said in the setting – that there is still too much variation in the size of the county so that they can have hospital responsibilities. I've done the right thing for the Center Party's solution to just this, because we're going to pass on state ownership just because there's still a different structure. But we want to transfer today's regional responsibility to the public-elected hospital board, elected by and among members of the county council, and that these should govern within the framework of the Stortinget in a governing national health and hospital plan. Our proposal is based on an explanation of this. I still think it's very special that no more are involved, at least when it's almost as first comment in the setting: «Regulatory tasks of a regional nature should be addressed at regional level.» If it's a service that's regional in character, it's a hospital; it's a very high percentage being solved and given within the regional level. That Stortinget is so reprehensible that precisely these health services are going to be run regionally, I do not think the majority have given a good explanation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e3169	The representative, Willfred Nordlund, has spoken twice before and is given the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e3174	There are several of the proposals mentioned in the vote, which we are not going to get into the debate here today, and that is a little bit of a shame, because we should certainly have been. This applies, inter alia, to: how to finance the future purchase of routes in District Norway. We should also have been involved in the debate on how to ensure adequate digitisation. We should have been involved in the debate on how to further strengthen not necessarily the regional development funds, but the tasks – i.e. the tools to be put in the treasury of the county to fill the content of the regional social developer role. I hope that people remember and go in and read about it. Finally, I would like to say hello to the representative of Skkelstad, because if this government and the Left had followed through the budget units, it would have been no problem to take over several kilometres by road in 2008. There would have been money for it if you had voted in favour of the Central Party's budget proposals in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e3181	The ironic comment of the Council of State on the rematch and parallel to the wolf settlement cannot be undisputed. The Central Party uses its statutory right to promote representation proposals here in the Chamber when we believe that there are decisions that are very wrong and that are absolutely not in line with what the people out there want. We are representatives of the people and use the right granted by the Stortinget to promote representative proposals. The government, on the other hand, thinks they've been given an exclusive right to ignore the decisions of big business, and that also applies to the Council of State, which is present here in the Chamber today. Int. 52 S for 2017-2018 Stortinget took the following decision: ‘The government asks the government to assume that the income system of the municipalities should ensure equivalent opportunities to develop welfare services for the inhabitants and not be used as an element in the continuation of the municipal reform.’ It is not a week since the Council of State proposed, and it was adopted here in Stortingen, that we should change the income system so that it does not now ensure equivalent services through the regional centre grant. With regard to the wolf issue that we debated here before today, it is exactly the same. The majority has taken a decision, and the government ignores the decision taken by the Stortinget. It is not included in the regulation of the Storting. Finally, I have to say to the representative of Skkelstad, who said that he was very pleased with what has been presented here today, and what is being decided, that if we go back and look at the ambitions of the Left and Christian People's Party when this matter was brought into the field, he is certainly not demanding. I think we can confirm that. There were completely different ambitions they had at the time. And for us who remember the debate, it's interesting to see that then everything should be in place. All the tasks were to be in place, and there was a whole series to be carried out. At the same time, the representatives of the Right Party and the Advance Party were in the pulpit and were then ‘happy’ that they had come halfway down the county council. So it's left to see what's going to be the result. Then I must also say that the representative of Skkelstad probably has not been very involved in the media in the last few years when he says that Finnmark and Troms have now finally come together. I have basically got the impression that they have not found together voluntarily, and that there has been some kind of coercion inside the picture.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e3197	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e3213	At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, three series of replies be given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e3222	The committee has no comments on the matter, but it has SV, we have two. One is about resource-intensive services, where the proposition now shows that the government has had 330 million. kr left over this year. There is reason to point out that there has been a need to review the guidelines for this scheme. It has been tightened up, and here the municipalities have a lot of needs. There was a budget for 2019 where the government continued this tightening, but the Christian People's Party has got these funds back in place. Here there is a need to improve the scheme, because this is one of the most accurate arrangements for meeting different expenditure needs in municipalities. These are expenditure needs that are both about the most help-intensive among us, and also about not having to take money from the other care to finance many of the large costs that are still not covered under this scheme. There's a need to extend it to people over 67. You kind of don't stop being sick even if you round 67, if you've been doing it for years. The second is the housing support. The income limits are now so low that there are very few who qualify for this scheme. Expenses are ripping over the end of the family economy for those who can't afford it. The government says in the government budget for 2019 that the average annual income of households receiving housing support is NOK 134 000. That's all it says. And now when the government again sends money back to itself, and does not propose greater improvements in the system than they have done, then there is a need to notice it and also press the alarm button, because this is very serious for the families. This is a poverty machine. The housing market is. This is one of the reasons why many people are going very wrong, and that many are now dependent on economic social assistance in the municipalities. The rules for social welfare in municipalities are such that these families have to start converting assets, so you can end up really losing everything you've saved in life. This is very serious, and therefore we choose to point it out when it's so obvious that here you could have improved the arrangements if you wanted it from the government and the majority, but we record that you don't want it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e3241	I will not extend the debate, but I need to comment briefly on the issues that SV addresses. As I understand the representative, Andersen, she claims that no changes have been made to housing support legislation that will give you a better and more targeted system. That's not true. The government has strengthened housing social work. It has been and remains a primary objective of the government that everyone should have a good place to live, and that even disadvantaged people should be able to obtain and maintain a good housing. We now have record numbers of homeless people in Norway. It's not a development that's come about by itself. On the contrary, it is because of a targeted work done by the government parties and also the Christian People's Party. We also discussed this when we dealt with the state budget last time. One of the things I mentioned then was that we have corrected under-regulations in the housing support that came with from the red-green ones. From 2017 onwards, the housing aid follows the price increase. We have made sure that housing aid is now paid on the basis of up-to-date equations, rather than two-year-old equations, as was done in the past. It also caused more people to have difficult repayment claims that they could not handle. In this year's budget, we have also strengthened housing support for families with children. With the change that we have adopted, a family of children can get up to NOK 5000 more in housing support. Overall, there is a large increase in housing-social work, although SV is trying to claim otherwise. I would also like to point out that the number of people who receive housing support has fallen from 2011 onwards, as SV himself has been in government. It is also important to stress in the case of resource-intensive services that all people, regardless of the municipality in which they live, are entitled to health and care services, and are to receive them when they need it – regardless of whether the municipalities receive subsidies from the State or not. On the right, the municipalities themselves are confident that they will be able to provide their citizens with good services adapted to local needs. That said, it is important to stress that there has been a growth in the resource-intensive services system since its introduction in 2004. So you went from 1.5 billion. SEK in 2004 to SEK 10.2 billion. kr in 2019. The budget for 2019 is almost 0.9 billion. kr higher than the payment made in 2018.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e3258	First to resource-intensive services. It's the way people now live – where they died before. This means that one now has a responsibility in the municipalities that, for many of these patients, is about having competence almost as a small hospital department. Many of these costs are not covered within this system. We've dealt with that several times, and the government has to take it over. The second is the housing support. Yes, there have been some changes in the housing support. That has not been said by SV, and several of them are okay enough. But claiming that housing support and housing-social work are strengthened when fewer people are helped in a housing market where prices have exploded and where the income of the low-income groups has stood still or gone down and we have become more people – to put it that way, it is simply out of control. There have been some changes, but it has not covered the gap that has arisen because you have not adjusted the different parameters. And then it's not just about price growth, it's about specific housing costs, and it's about the income level of the low income groups. The other thing that has happened is that not all new workers come under housing support legislation. Then there are very many people with very low incomes who no longer receive housing support, and who become dependent on economic social assistance, who should be a temporary scheme, and where you can demand that they sell their assets – sell the car, sell the PC, sell the TV, sell what you have – eventually maybe sell the house. I've been away in people who've had it too. These are quite serious demands for human beings. We need a housing support code that allows people to keep their homes – keep a safe home. We can afford that. So we spend less on dollars this year than we did in 2009. Everyone does not understand that. So here we just have to do something. This is one of the most serious differences that this government has contributed to. We have to end this, because people have to be able to live safely in their homes if they don't have high incomes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e3269	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e3285	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, three rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e3294	In this case, as in the previous one, the majority of the committee does not have any comments, except that several of us record that the government is using these ages to achieve its own political results, and then it must be legitimate for others to do the same. SV suggests in this position that when there is money left at the post to provide food for people sitting on asylum receptions, we believe that that money should be able to be transferred to next year's budget to raise the rates. We know that there have been reports that people are starving at reception. Many are undernourished and very many non-governmental organisations, among others. Red Cross, has alarmed the whole Storting that this is the situation. It's totally unworthy. Now there's been a budgetary settlement where the Christian People's Party has gotten some money into this, but not up to the level it was before. Therefore, SV believes that it is necessary to amend Chapter 490 entry 70 by adding the keyword ‘transferable’. That means that this money does not go back to the treasury, but that you can raise the rates of living in reception as soon as possible within the framework of the total allocation that is then available, which will be the sum of this budget plus the Christian People's Party received in the budget conciliation. Then I would like to record the SV's proposal, which is in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e3305	The representative Karin Andersen then addressed the SV's proposal. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e3323	At the request of the Municipal and Regional Committees, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, the exchange of lines be given with up to three lines, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e3332	The same applies to this case as to the previous one, but here SV has a proposal, and together with the Workers' Party we support proposals for Decision II. The matter is also about the fact that there was a serious scandal in the government when it turned out that the Ministry of Knowledge had reduced the allocation to the Human Rights Service. This is not exactly a national resource environment in the field of integration. It's rather a pretty right-wing extrem blog, which spreads conspiratory ideas. I was happy when I saw that the Ministry of Knowledge had taken a little hold of this, but then it turned out that there was a problem with it. The government then tried through this aging as if to clean up its mess. Both the SV and the Workers' Party believe it is completely wrong that we should grant money to such a blog. Therefore, we propose that we do not support the proposal to increase the allocation of this organisation through this trickling in the balancing proposition. SV wants to use the same appropriation to strengthen the Holocaust Centre and the Anti-racist Centres by NOK 250 000 each – that is, to use exactly the same allocation to strengthen these two environments, which actually contributes to good integration and not least to the important anti-racist work that is really needed when there are people who spread such conspiratory ideas as the Human Rights Service does. This does not mean that SV just wants to provide support to organisations we agree with – it is important to underline. We are also willing to sponsor organisations that we do not necessarily agree with, but it is not necessary to have State aid in order to have freedom of expression. There are a lot of people who have it and who have no state aid for it at all. There must also be certain limits to what you support. That is why we support the proposal for Decision II, and I refer to the SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e3347	The representative Karin Andersen then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e3352	Let me start by referring to the Workers' Party's alternative budget, which was promoted in the budget debate last week, where we had no support for the Human Rights Service because we believe that it is not a particular integration promotion. We don't need anything, like SV, to drive censorship, but we believe that those who want to support this blog will find a different posting than integration promotions to put it on. Some considerations about the last two and this proposition that we are dealing with: what is now developing is a form of third budgetary procedure. There is no good development, and I think it is relatively unfair to age next year's budget by using funds from the current year that are left over. I understand that there can be errors of 500 000 kroner in a budget of almost 1500 billion. kr, and that the government parties need to clean it up, but this should have been done in the budget debate and not in the ageing of the 2018 budget, which is essentially a pro formas. Then to the voting. Since the committee's recommendation is promoted by the majority of the committee, the minority of the committee suspects that even if we make good contributions here, there will not be a majority for what we have recommended, so that you will be adopted. This will mean that it is not relevant to vote over II, which is just doing something different from what was decided in I – just so you are aware of it during voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e3361	My thought on this particular issue, the support for the Human Rights Service, is that I do not believe the Council of State of Sanner or his office has initially thought wrong. I think they've been very conscious of what they did to follow up on what's the prerequisite for getting such support. When I take the floor, it is because it is the second time this week that we see examples of the internal terror balance in the government, where the Progress Party threatens the value conservatism of the Right to liberalism. Then follow the Right because they have to, and – I kept saying – even though I don't mean it completely, I have to say that it can now go. But that the Left Party and the Christian People's Party agree to it is completely incomprehensible – that they do not see what they are up against in order to establish cultures and norms in the Norwegian community that are completely outside what they really stand for. When are they going to find out what they're going into? That's the big question. I see that no more people are asking for the floor, and it is also part of the culture that develops in these debates. They sit still and look down. They don't even defend themselves. They don't try to defend themselves, because they know they can't do it, or they can't do it. I'm not provoking, I'm just recording that it's now establishing itself as a practice because the Progress Party is pushing all the other parties beyond the edge. And they find themselves in it – repeatedly and again and again. Even a government council as solid as Sanner, who has so long experience, and does not make such mistakes – because he does not make those mistakes – is sitting still. He can't stand to go up and defend himself and say, "We unfortunately made a mistake." No, this is an expression of the political balance of the government, and I record it. Some Christmas gifts from the Christian People's Party and the Left to Norwegian political culture are at least not this. And that is completely contrary to the culture or perception of the parties as to how Norway should be organised, and to what rhetoric to express the word change in important areas of Norwegian society. I'm very sorry.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e3372	Since the Central Party was not mentioned in the context of the Committee's recommendation II, I must point out that we are also behind the recommendation, where we ask the government to ensure that the allocation to the Human Rights Service is not increased by regrouping the State budget for 2018. I have to say that it's a strange form of using a change proposition to resolve internal disputes in a government. I hope the Council of State can confirm that this should not be a common practice in the future, as there will be a whole new practice in the work of the Stortinge. There may be changes after the budget has been dealt with in the Storting, but there is very little to suggest that there are unforeseen changes that cause this to come as a matter of change in this motion for a resolution. So I sincerely hope that we do not see that this should be common practice in the future, and I hope the Council of State can explain why this is now coming into a change proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e3381	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e3395	Thank you for the opportunity to give an oral statement about the Ministry of Transport's work on and responsibility for the offer on the Sørlandsbanen. I have received the consent of the Presidentship of Stortingen to give an oral ruling on the Ministry of Transport's work and responsibility for the offer of the Sørlandsbanen, Arendalsbanen and Jærbanen, so-called Traffic Package in South to Go-Ahead Norway AS. Competition is the first major offer of rail passenger transport in a newly organised rail sector and is thus an important milestone. The particularly good results of this first competition show that we are delivering on the measurements that Stortinget has agreed to. We make a better offer to the travelers and get more rail for the money. This shows that rail reform and increased competition are working. Other transport services have long been purchased through competition. Now let's do the same thing on the railway. In 2019, we spend over 4.2 billion. NOK to buy the train offer for the travellers in Norway. This comes in addition to the ticket receipts. Overall, we need to ensure that service providers make it as effective as possible and deliver high quality. I think we're now on the right track towards just that. In addition to these major reforms, we have also given more money to the railways. In 2019, once again, the railway is budget winning under our government, as it has been for several years in a row. We are far away within the most hectic and ambitious construction period of Norwegian railway since the Nordlandsbanen was completed in 1962. In 2012, under the previous government, 12.5 billion was raised. kr for railway applications. In 2019, the government made proposals and the Stortinget made a promise to the railways of 26.4 billion. kr. So much money must be useful. The railway reform should provide us with more rail for the money, the best possible use of resources and a better supply for those using trains. Railway development must be directed towards customers and their demand for transport services. Where this can lead to more innovation and better use of resources, the tasks shall be carried out to a greater extent by operators competing on equal terms. We now see good results from the government's policy. There are now 100 more train departures every day than at the government change in 2013, and the number of passengers has increased by more than 10 million. Even if we are now putting in place competition to win traffic agreements with the state, I would remind you that the state still has good control over the railway sector. The state owns all infrastructure through the state enterprise Bane NOR, and the state owns all trains through the company Norske train. Furthermore, the State coordinates all development, investment in material, development of timetables, ticketing and operation of train services through contracts concluded by the Directorate-General for Railways with the activities of the sector. State railway supervision is supervisory and supervises rail markets and must contribute to an efficient market with healthy competition on equivalent terms. In addition, the country buys as a named train service through traffic contracts. The State has sole control of all the central parts of the railway. The result is a follow-up of the Storting. In this briefing, I would first like to say something about the background of competition itself, and why is the Directorate of Railways now involved and following up the purchase of passenger services by train, and not the department. I will then go into the competition for the Transport Package in the South and sharing of responsibilities and governance in the railway sector. The briefing will show that the contract itself has been awarded without any political interference. Part of the background to the rail reform was the many challenges experienced by the railway sector in 2009 and 2010. The challenges are documented in the 2011 report Main Challenges for Norwegian Railways, which was edited by former State Council Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa. The report was written by a working group composed of the leaders of the NSB, the Railway Agency, the State Railway Authority, the Ministry of Transport and, in addition, a representative of the freight industry. The working group pointed out that there were several structural weaknesses in the railway sector. Among other things, there was a lack of clear objectives and a lack of customer focus. In addition, there was too low efficiency and socio-economic profitability in the sector, and there were too few business relations between market players. The report identified several instruments for creating a rail system where infrastructure and train provision are more interconnected. It was possible to do so. also points out in the report that it is important to think about the long-term and holistic development of the sector and that it is important to use competition as an instrument to address transport challenges in selected markets. Competition gives the government more knowledge of what a service costs, as the buyer can compare offers. Competition often stimulates more innovation and increases attention to providing customers with good services. Competition is also common in many other forms of transport. The county outsources collective activities on offer. The state road service provides ferry services on offer. The Ministry has recently held a round table on the operation of the coastal route, and the Department has been issuing unsolicited routes, so-called FOT routes, on offer, etc. Competition for the operation of train services is also not new. For example, the NSB has won two out of six competitions in Sweden and won the competition for the Gjøvik Railway here in Norway. The political platform for government, by the Right and the Advance Party, and the Cooperation Agreement between the Government Party and the Left and the Christian People's Party in the previous period respond to the challenges by notifying a comprehensive reform of the whole railway sector. The government met the challenges in the rail sector by starting work on the rail reform in the autumn of 2013. In 2015, the Storing Message was handled in Stortinget on the right track. The majority agreed that the reform should be implemented, and the ministry and the under-lying agencies should start work on the reform immediately. Over the last few years, the government has been working at a high pace with the comprehensive railway reform to lift Norwegian railways to a modern and functioning transport system. The government has regularly briefed the Storting on the status of work through a review in the budget proposals. The aim of the reform is to achieve an appropriate governance structure, business organisation and clear objectives for the railway sector. Better train services and more money rail are the drivers of the reform. In the reform work, the Ministry of Transport has also argued that there should be a more superior political governance of the sector, in order to increase operational freedom for performing activities. At the same time, it has been important to learn from other countries that have carried out similar or similar reforms. If the railway is to play an important role in the transport system over the next decade, the standard of transport supply must be improved and capacity increased. The overarching objective of the railway is that the train should be a competitive alternative. In order to achieve these overarching objectives, three main actions have been important for the competitive deployment of passenger transport services: establishment of the Railway Directorate as a whole central coordinator in the railway sector separate key factors of production from the NSB in order to ensure a level playing field in competition in traffic contracts with the State; allow NSB to participate in competitions under the same conditions as other operators; With the establishment of the Railway Directorate as a central coordinator in the railway sector, the government has proposed a changed governance model for the sector. Operational and professional decisions have been delegated to the executive bodies to a greater extent. In the railway sector, it is particularly important to ensure that the planning of new routes is closely linked to the development of infrastructure and investment in materials. Each of these areas requires detailed professional competence and long-termity. The Ministry of Transport has overarching strategic responsibility for the development of the rail sector. The Railway Directorate is established to achieve a well-coordinated and efficient rail supply. The Directorate has therefore received both management and coordination tasks delegated by the Ministry. The Railway Directorate has thus been given the task of ensuring the operational management and coordination of units in the sector and thus managing the allocated permissions. The directorate's management is primarily contractual management. The agreements managed by the Directorate shall be corrected in such a way that the requirements of the supplier are in accordance with the instructions set by the Stortinget and the instructions made by the Licensing Decision. This is the way the Railway Directorate is a contracting party for all enterprises or companies – unlike the way it was before the railway reform, where e.g. contracts for the purchase of passenger transport were concluded by the Ministry. A level playing field is a fundamental premise to ensure fair competition. In Norway, by separating the most central production factors from the NSB, we have facilitated equal access for all providers to the production factors on equal terms. Necessary steps to ensure a level playing field have been taken to separate rolling stock from the Norwegian train company, to separate Mantena maintenance company and to separate the necessary sales and ticketing services from the company Entur. Detour is also responsible for collecting and making route data available, operating a national, competitively neutral travel planner and providing basic infrastructure services for electronic ticketing. This is a grip Stortinget has asked for, and that the ministry has implemented. The government has a fundamental belief that competition in many markets can give us more innovation and better use of resources. Thus, the work on rail reform has been of high priority. By allowing the NSB to participate in competitions, the government must ensure that the NSB can: participate in the same line with other train crew members. The Ministry of Transport has worked as the owner of the NSB to enable the company to compete in the same line with other train companies. The government has, among other things, in the budgets for 2016 and 2017 received the agreement of the Stortinget on proposals for reduced dividends from the NSB in order to provide the company with resources to convert. The Ministry has also worked hard to clarify the economic and legal frameworks and has dealt with various issues such as pensions. through Prop. 129 S for 2016-2017. In that proposal, the Ministry of Transport shall submit a proposal for a power to impose obligations on the State to provide support to NSB AS in the event of a withdrawal from the State pension fund. These grips have been a significant contribution to ensure that the NSB is able to switch and have the possibility to compete on equal terms with other actors. The Ministry has also obtained a mandate from the Executive Board to enable the Directorate-General for Railways to conclude a direct purchase agreement with the NSB in order to provide non-competitive train services. This also ensures that NSB is given time to convert its own organisation. In other words, the government has taken several steps before the traffic packages were outsourced, in order to enable the NSB to compete on the same terms as possible. This was a brief review of the back cover of the competition. Now I want to go to the competition for the Transport Package 1 South. This is the competition to enter into an agreement with the State to operate train provision on Sørlandsbanen, Arendalsbanen and Jærbanen. First, I want to inform you about the important principle of the state that buys. Then I will go into more detail about what tasks the Ministry of Transport has been responsible for, and what tasks the Directorate of Railways has been responsible for, in various phases of the implementation of Traffic Package 1 South. I would also like to examine how the interaction between the department and the directorate has been since the directorate was established. Finally, I want to sum up the main features of the competition. Competitions for the carriage of passengers by train shall and must comply with the fundamental principles of competition, non-discrimination, prudentiality, proportionality and proportionality. The principle is important to ensure equal treatment for all providers. They also need to know which rules are applicable to procurement and that the decision is verifiable. In professional acquisitions such as this, the basis of competition is the rule on which to base the winner. The basis of competition shall list both the requirements to be provided and the award criteria upon which the offer is evaluated. What a buyer wants to achieve shall be reflected in the basis of competition and be what the providers compete for when they supply their services. Setting targets and award criteria is a central part of the job of creating competition. Some words about the division of responsibilities between department and directorate. In the course of the review of the Landfill Communication On the right track – rail sector reform, Stortinget concluded on the proposal for the reorganisation of the rail sector and the establishment of the Directorate-General for Railways. The transfer of tasks includes: referred to in the budget proposal with additional number for 2017 and the establishment itself is anchored in kgl. Res. of 5 February 2016. Until the establishment of the Directorate-General for Railways on 1 January 2017, the Ministry of Transport managed the task of entering into and following up traffic contracts regulating the purchase of passenger services by train by the State. This task was assigned to the Railway Directorate when the Directorate came into normal operation on January 2017. The Ministry of Transport was responsible for the preparation of the competition on Traffic Package 1 South, when the competition planning started in 2016. From 1 January 2017, the Railway Directorate assumed responsibility for the implementation of the competition. Silver competition was initiated by the outsourcing of the competition basis by the Directorate-General for Railways on 12 October 2017. The competition ended more than one year later with the conclusion of a contract between the Directorate of Railways and Go-Ahead on 30 October this year. Providers competed for a long-term contract with the Directorate of Railways. They thus competed for the right to operate the train services covered by the traffic contract. The transport contract now concluded with Go-Ahead by the Directorate of Railways contains a number of quality requirements for different parts of the supply. The requirement ensures that travellers will receive a train offer at least as well as the train we have contracted in the current direct purchase with the NSB. The majority authorised the Ministry of Transport to conclude contracts for the purchase of passenger transport services by train in the context of the review of the 2018 national budget. This includes agreement on the operation of train services on the South Coastal Railway for up to nine and a half years. The Ministry of Transport has delegated the powers of the Directorate of Railways to the Directorate of Supplementary Letters to the Directorate. We can roughly share the work on the launch of the Traffic Package 1 South in two parts, the pre-construction phase and the supply phase. For the preparatory phase: Until 1 January 2017, the Ministry of Transport, as previously briefed, had responsibility for the preparation of the competition for Traffic Package 1 South. Preparations have taken place at the same time as the creation of the Iron Curtain Directorate and the new companies in the sector and have been made good in the budget proposals for both 2016, 2017 and 2018. The work in the department has included, inter alia:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t notifying the market of competition in the publication of the system of prequalification, taking place on 4 and 8 April 2016 at Doffin and TED; maintaining market contact, including: through offer day 10 March 2016 to prepare for competition and work on the competition documents; to define the train provision targets in Traffic Package 1 South establishing award criteria for Traffic Package 1 South sending out a preliminary competition basis to the County municipalities along the southern runway, to qualified tenderers and to all companies in the railway sector on 9 December 2016 laying down a timetable for competition to start work on the prequalification of providers; At the same time, the Department has also worked on the transfer of experience to the Directorate of Railways and working on interfaces between the two new activities. As mentioned, the Ministry of Transport has sent a preliminary competition basis to the county councils. In these letters, the Ministry briefed that the basis of competition for the Traffic Package in South would be sent out some time later than planned. The postponement was due to the fact that the new state companies that were separated from the NSB would have enough time to come into operation. In addition, the ministry needed a little more time to clarify pensions, and one wanted to see the launch of competition in conjunction with the new national transport plan to be submitted in spring 2017. An important task for the Ministry of Transport was to set targets with the purchase and award criterion. The measures and criteria set out the framework for a buyer to achieve with the competition. I want to get to know more about these. The measure of competition is mentioned in a number of documents, including: in the Ministry of Transport. The measure is as follows: «Member States will contribute to more and more satisfied customers through the competitive deployment of the Traffic Package 1: ensuring that the supplier chosen will be able to deliver the most customer-friendly and cost-effective traffic offer. In the case of the traffic package, competition shall, in particular, contribute to the achievement of: More customers and increased customer satisfaction on Sørlandsbanen, Jærbanen and Arendalsbanen. Optimal operation and good maintenance of the train equipment. An efficient and market-oriented organisation. Good cooperation with the relevant county municipalities. A seamless offer between the local train product on the railway track and other public transport services.» The objective is a direct follow-up of the Stortinget’s commitment to the objective of the Storing Message On the right track – reform of the railway sector, where it reads in the Innst. 386 S for 2014-2015: ‘In order to maximise the use of State resources and to introduce greater dynamism, innovation and customer orientation in the passenger train market, the Government will introduce competition to operate passenger train services on behalf of the State.’ After the Railway Directorate took over the purchase task, the Directorate has taken on board: award criteria established by the Ministry. The award criteria for the Traffic Package 1 South are, as we know, price 40 pst. and quality 60 pst., divided into how the provider will achieve satisfied customers – 40 pst. weighting, how the provider manages train equipment – 5 pst. and provider's organisation and management – 15 pst. I have now informed about the objectives set by the Ministry of Transport for the purchase. The measures clearly show what is politically desirable for the purchase of passenger transport services on the route. So all of this was fixed before 31 December 2016. I am now going to say a little about the execution of the purchase that the Directorate of Railways has been responsible for. As said, from 1 January 2017, the Directorate-General for Railways took over the main task of entering into and following up traffic contracts that regulate the state’s purchase of passenger services by train. The Directorate also took over the individual task of implementing the competition for the Transport Package 1 South. The Railway Directorate manages the task of entering into and following up the purchase of passenger services by train in accordance with instructions for the directorate and the control signal provided by letters of assignment for 2017 and 2018. In the letters of award, the Ministry has raised the objectives, conditions and requirements of the department for the respective years in line with budgetary decisions taken in Stortinget. The Ministry has also listed the main priorities and the guiding principle for purchasing tasks. The 2017 letter of award includes: for the Railway Directorate to manage and develop efficiently the purchase of passenger services by train. Furthermore, it follows from the letter that this should be in accordance with overriding transport policy objectives and that the Directorate-General for Railways should be a demanding and clear client. The Railway Directorate has also been told to take a good look at the markets from which they purchase services and to meet the transport needs of the train supply. Market knowledge is a means of ensuring that the introduction of competition in passenger services by train is a success. In the letter of award, the Ministry has asked the Railway Directorate to assess and propose the other decisions before the purchase of passenger transport services that have to be resolved with the Ministry. The Directorate shall also, as necessary, keep the Department informed in this area. Furthermore, the work on negotiating new agreements has to be adapted to the ordinary budgetary process. The Railway Directorate has worked on the following major tasks within the scope of the Department after taking over responsibility for Traffic Package 1 South: In the pre-construction phase, they have gone through the listening recordings from the county municipalities, and the deadline for recording was 18 January 2017. They have completed the competition for Traffic Package 1 South. They have completed the pre-qualification of the providers who had applied for such a qualification in order to participate in the competition. At this stage, the preparatory phase, the Ministry of Transport has made a few clarifications on the progress and publicity of pensions in the competitive environment. This has been necessary to create a clear and prudent framework for competition. In the supply phase, the Directorate has been responsible for sending out the competitive basis to the pre-qualified tenderers and the basis was sent out on 12 October 2017 with a deadline of 1 March 2018. Furthermore, the Directorate has been responsible for anonymising and answering questions from the providers, evaluating the offers received, negotiating with the providers in several ways, informing the providers of whom they have chosen, and giving reasons for this. They have been responsible for concluding a contract, for handling any complaints concerning the award of a contract and for following up the winning supplier in the year of establishment. In this phase, the Ministry of Transport has not played an active or leading role in the outcome of competition of any kind. Summer up one might say that it is the Ministry of Transport that has formulated the objective of competition. The Railway Directorate has been responsible for the implementation of competition itself with all that it entails. I would also like to say a few words about guidelines between the department and the directorate. The Directorate has worked independently on all of the listed tasks in the supply phase and has usually reported on the status, process and risk at a superior level to the Department in the ordinary management dialogue. Annual reports have been published on the Directorate’s website. In some of these reports, the Directorate-General for Railways has briefly mentioned the status of the work on the launch of the Traffic Package in the South. In addition to the brief status reports, as a contribution to the 2017 and 2018 budgetary process, the Directorate-General for Railways has developed a brief basis for the review of the competition release of Traffic Package 1 South of the State budget. The Ministry of Transport briefed the Government on the status of the Traffic Package in the South in the budget proposals. In 2017, the Ministry also had some status meetings linked to the new tasks transferred to the Directorate and some issues related to the organisation of the sector. Both the Directorate of Railways and the Directorates have had a dialogue, and the Department has seen copies of several of the letters that have been exchanged between the parties. In line with normal practice, the ministry only took the letters to the knowledgeable. It also appears that the department has been contacted directly. In these cases, one at administrative level has sent the letters to the Directorate of Railways, so that the Directorate has handled them. The ministry has not accepted the offer documents from its providers. We have not taken into account questions and answers that have been developed in competition, nor have we taken into account the evaluation models of the Directorate. After the Railway Directorate took over the purchasing task, the Department has carried out clarifications in a few cases for the Traffic Package in the South. I come to these matters in further detail. They are: Postponement of a call for proposals and mention of a pension in the competitive environment deferral of the time limit for the award of the contract handling of appeals In the spring of 2017, the Ministry decided that the traffic start time would be changed until June 2019 for the Traffic Package in South, and that the competition basis would thus be sent out in October/November. The suspension was published in a press release by the Ministry of Transport on 2 May 2017. The postponement was due to the fact that there was more time to plan implementation, among other things. to ensure equal treatment of train operators and to deal with pension issues raised in the sector. The Ministry decided which text would be on the basis of which pensions would be based. It was in order to ensure that all providers were given equal knowledge of the pension solutions and knowledge of the early retirement schemes that NSB could apply for in line with the budgetary powers given in the revised national budget 2016. The clarifications mean that the winner does not inherit the extra cost associated with the historically designed pension rights of the oldest employees who are business transfers and have SPK membership. The clarifications on pensions were also important from three points of view: the ability of NSB and other providers to compete on a level playing field; to be added to an operation transfer, if any, by older persons; equal access to information for all providers In addition to this, the department has not provided guidance on pensions. On 9 May 2018, the Directorate sent a letter to the Ministry writing that they would extend the contract award deadline in order to ensure a defence award process. They write, among other things.\t\t You can ‘The reason for the delays is that the offers are numerous and extensive. In order to ensure quality in evaluation and non-discrimination between operators, extensive evaluation work has been carried out. By continuing to hold on 1 July as a contract award date, quality assurance will be reduced and offers will be given very short time to deliver revised offers.» By letter of 15 May 2018, the Ministry agreed to the Technical Recommendation of the Directorate-General for Railways to give additional time to the providers. The Ministry’s assessment was that this was important in order to provide a viable and effective competition. The Railway Directorate has implemented competition in line with the railway reform leaders. So the leaders have had support in Stortinget at more times. The Ministry of Transport is the authority of the individual decisions taken by the Directorate of Railways, in line with the administrative regulations. In line with the sectoral principle, the Ministry has our Board of Appeal for two complaints. These cases concerned the fact that the directorate had instructed the NSB to send information on consumption statistics for vehicles and components, and information on travel patterns on the Sørlandsbanen. The Directorate felt that access to the information was necessary in order to facilitate fair competition in the best possible way, according to the Railway Act §8(c). The Ministry found it right to obtain advice from the State Railway Authority as a security regulator and market surveillance. They support the Directorate that this kind of information would make the competing train companies as competitive as possible. They also support the fact that it was necessary for the new users of the vehicles to know consumer statistics in order to plan a good maintenance. Based on these assessments, the NSB did not receive this information from the department and had to pass it on to the directorate. All assessments in addition to what I have now done have been done by the Directorate of Railways in the period after 1 January 2017. They've been done after this timeline: The railway directorate carried out the prequalification from 1 January 2017. The Railway Directorate completed the competitive base from 1 January 2017 to 5 October 2017. The Railway Directorate issued the competition basis on 12 October 2017. The Railway Directorate evaluated the supply from the deadline of 1 March 2018 until the allocation of 17 October 2018. The Railway Directorate negotiated with the providers in two rounds – the first round from 22 to 28 May and the second round from 20 to 21 August 2018. The Railway Directorate informed the tenderers who they had chosen on 17 October 2018. The Railway Directorate signed the contract on 30 October 2018. The railway directorate handled the complaint from 30 October 2018 to 13 November 2018. I took over as Minister of Transport on 31 August this year. During the period until the award of the offer, I have not been informed at any time about the assessments made by the Railway Directorate by the relevant providers. I'll come back to this. Finally, I would like to summarise the main features of the competition. In the traffic package 1 South, the quality was weighted by 60 pst. and price 40 pst. in line with the leadership of the Ministry of Transport. In the contract awarded by the Directorate of Railways on 17 October 2018, the Directorate wrote that all three delivered offers such as scora high quality. NSB was somewhat better than Go-Ahead on quality, but Go-Ahead was clearly better at price. The Directorate wrote in its letter of award that ‘the prize in winning offers was therefore decisive for the outcome of competition. Overall, Go-Ahead provides a response that provides the Directorate with the assurance that the provider will provide high-quality train services throughout the contractual period.’ The Railway Directorate has concluded that although both NSB and SJ are subject to a slightly higher level of coverage when applying the ‘quality’ award criterion than Go-Ahead, there is little difference between supply at this point. In the summary, the Directorate-General for Railways wrote that: ‘Go-Ahead has described in a trusting way how the company will provide greater dynamism, innovation and customer orientation in the passenger train market than has so far been the case. In our opinion, this will result in more and more satisfied customers and the state will have even more money left for its resource effort related to the purchase of passenger train services. Go-Ahead scores very well on work on punctuality and regularity and handling of traffic deviations.» The Railway Directorate has informed the Department that after the final offer from Go-Ahead had been submitted, the Railway Directorate had a clarification meeting with Go-Ahead on 3 October 2018. The goal of the meeting was to assess whether the economy in supply met the demands of the healthy economy that were made in the supply request. If this had not been the case, the Railway Directorate could assess whether one should reject the offer. The Railway Directorate concluded that there was no basis for rejecting the offer. I am aware that SJ Norway, in its complaint to the Railway Directorate, has made a claim that the directorate has conducted a negotiating meeting with Go-Ahead after submitting a final offer. The Railway Directorate has made the Ministry of Transport aware that this is a misconception. It is clear from the minutes that this meeting was not a negotiation meeting, although the word 'debate' was used in an error in the minutes heading. The Railway Directorate has briefed the Ministry of Transport that Go-Ahead was unable to improve its supply on the basis of the meeting. The Railway Directorate informs that, in the light of Go-Ahead’s final offer of 4 September 2018, a contract has been concluded with the Directorate. The contract between the Railway Directorate and Go-Ahead was signed on 30 October 2018. In its letter on the contract awarded to Go-Ahead, the Railway Directorate states that they see greater market opportunities than competitors with the measures they can take. The Railway Directorate briefed the Ministry of Transport on the winner of the Traffic Package 1 South October 16, 2018 in the afternoon. This was a purely orientation meeting where the Directorate first briefed the Department on the background of the election and progress. All those who came to know the results of the ministry were listed on the inside list as soon as they were made aware of this information. As you know, the results of Traffic Package 1 South were announced on a press conference the following day. After the award of the contract for the Traffic Package, 1 South asked questions as to why the Directorate-General for Railways has itself dealt with complaints from the SJ. I would like to use the opportunity to say a few words about it. The public enters into commercial agreements in the same way as the private. This is not, therefore, a simple decision under the administrative law, and the rules of the administrative law on complaints therefore do not apply. The Ministry is therefore not the Board of Appeal of the Railway Directorate to award the contract for Traffic Package 1 South to Go-Ahead Norway. When it comes to the implementation of competition by the public, it is quite common for complaints to be addressed directly and answered by the same body that awarded the offer. The Court of First Instance is responsible for the Directorate-General for Railways. The complaint subject of public procurement, KOFA, deals with cases only after having accepted complaints from stakeholders with a legal interest in complaints. KOFA shall handle complaints of breaches of procurement laws and associated regulations. Suppliers who so wish are quite free to complain to KOFA. Furthermore, there is, of course, the possibility of attacking an acquisition in the ordinary judiciary. In this case, SJ complained to the Directorate of Railways, which is in line with normal practice. When the Railway Directorate did not respond, SJ chose not to proceed. The Ministry of Transport cannot therefore see that the handling of complaints in this matter has taken place in any other way than what is normal for public procurement. Appeals in this offer are, in other words, handled in line with normal practice for public supply. The SJ also stated in the press release of 17 October that it has been useful and instructive to be part of the supply process and that they take into account the knowledge and experience they have acquired for further supply processes. Furthermore, SJ states that they will continue to compete for forthcoming traffic packages in Norway. I'm glad that we're now actually saving billions of dollars for the next decade that we can use to strengthen the train supply, not just on the Sørlandsbanen or on the Jærbanen, but on the train services of all places in this country. In addition, we have now seen that through the cooperation that Go-Ahead is going to have with Columbus, a county collective company in Rogaland, a both to deliver at a better price and to have a targeted strategy for more people to choose to take the train. This government has a goal of creating an attractive and accessible train offer for all those travelling by train. In recent years, there has been a steady increase in the number of passengers on Norwegian routes. In 2017, there were nearly 73.6 million travelers. Since 2013, the number of passengers has increased by more than 10 million. Several people use trains to and from work and on leisure time. This shows in many ways that the railway has been the backbone of the collective system between urban areas. The increase in the number of passengers requires sufficient capacity and good rail performance. The use of competition can improve the services and experiences of travellers and increase the use of rail. Before public transport is offered, a common means of ensuring the best possible provision of travel for taxpayers' money. Supply includes: the benefits of air transport, ferry and high-speed boat transport and bus transport. We already have experience in competition for passenger services in the railway sector. The competition to operate the train offer on the Gjøvik track includes: as a result of a good development in the number of travellers and high customer satisfaction. Our goal is to bring the positive elements of competition into passenger train traffic in order to contribute to the efficiency, innovation and better provision of passengers. Norwegian companies also have experience in winning contracts outside our borders. I start this distribution by briefing myself on the railway reform and saying why competition for rail passenger services is desirable and important. My review shows that the government has taken on board the challenges of the Norwegian railway. I have done my best to prepare the competition for rail passenger services and that the Ministry of Transport until 1 January 2017 was the purchaser of such services and therefore had the task of running the competition. It was also the ministry that first set the targets with the purchase and award criteria. My survey shows that both the Department and the Railway Directorate have witnessed their respective roles since the start of the competition. It is the Railway Directorate that has been responsible for the implementation of the offer. I can't see that the department has given a steering signal or been involved in any other way that can be interpreted as having a particularly politically desirable result during this supply process. This has also been essential in order for providers to have confidence in the process. Following the award of the Traffic Package 1 South, I read in the media that the implementation of the bidding process was seen as a fair competition in which the operators participated on equal terms. I took over as Minister of Transport on 31 August 2018 and therefore do not have a personal first-hand insight into everything that has been done before my time. I still think that the mapping I have now done well shows that the process around the offer for the Sørlandsbanen has our good and tidy. I assume that the Directorate of Railways has complied with the public procurement rules. My briefing shows that there were professional assessments on the basis of which the Railway Directorate awarded the contract to Go-Ahead Norway AS in Traffic Package 1 South. As I mentioned in the introduction, the country uses over 4.2 billion. in 2019 for the purchase of train supplies for those travelling in Norway. The agreement with Go-Ahead means an average annual remuneration of 150 million. kr. The compensation for NSB in 2019 for the Sørlandsbanen is over 400 million. kr. This shows that competition can provide more rail for the money, but also that the majority of the train supply is still offered by the NSB through long-term traffic agreements with the State. The result of this process is, among other things. that the state saves several billion dollars over the next ten years that we can use for, for example. strengthening the train supply on the Sørlandsbanen, Jærbanen and the rest of the country. I hope that this review shows that the Stortinget has been informed about the development of the railway reform. I also hope that the review shows that there has been a good and professional handling of this first offer, and that the review shows that there is now a greater distance between policy and the railway operator. The mapping makes sense as to which assessments have been given to the Department before the new activities were in place, and what has been delegated to the Directorate of Railways, and how the timelines in this are. The review clears that the first time I was informed about who was in the competition for the Traffic Package in the South, and who was chosen as an operator, is less than 24 hours before the announcement, and that at that time I was included in the inside list. The state is a major buyer of pre-traffic services. It is important that the State acts as a professional operator in these markets. Now we have also been through the award of the first contract for the transport of train passengers after the railway reform was implemented. I have neither wanted to influence nor influenced anyone who won the competition for the Transport Package 1 South. I hope that Stortinget has received the necessary information on how this process has been carried out. This government is investing in the railways. The good results of the first competition show that rail reform and increased competition work. It also shows that we deliver on the measurements that Storting has given us. We make a better offer to the travelers and get more rail for the money. I think it's good railway policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e3753	The President will now propose, in accordance with the second paragraph of Section 45 of the Rules of Procedure of the Storting, that it be opened for a short comment round, limited to one post of up to 5 minutes from each party group and a final post from the Council of State. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e3760	The Norwegian railway is for sale, and first out is passenger traffic on the Sørlandsbanen. Then comes traffic on the Dovrebanen, Raumabanen, Rørosbanen, Trønderbanen, Meråkerbanen and Nordlandsbanen. Then all the other sections of the track come in turn. Traffic on all sections of the track shall be subject to tendering. When we dealt with the state budget for 2018, a year ago, the reorganisation of the railway had cost 1.3 billion. kr, i.e. before a single train was offered. It would have been interesting to figure out what the cost has now come up with. At least it's the animal. It costs to create new enterprises, new companies, new units. It costs a lot to hire and reward new directors – well paid directors. It is the great majority who have adopted this – the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party have adopted this policy. All railways shall be put off for competition, without exception. We who have voted against this privatisation respect the majority of this policy, but we all have an interest, both in the position and in the opposition, in the proper functioning of the competitive environment. Then I really have to ask the question: has the tendering of the traffic on the Sørlandsbanen gone right? The Labour Party and I cannot answer yes or no to this and now – nor after hearing the full and thorough statement from the Minister for Transport. However, we record that very many have asked critical questions about the process — lawyers and others who have access to tenders, contract rights and public acquisitions. I heard carefully after the presentation, and according to the Minister for Transport, this has been quite successful. But is it true, as it's claimed, that e.g. NSB scores higher than Go-Ahead on 12 out of 15 quality criteria? Is it true that there are two calculations and that the public has only seen one? This should be known to the Grand Duchy and to the public, not because the opposition is going to re-examine the tender as such, but because we are going to be sure that everything has gone right. In the tender for the Sørlandsbanen quality was to be weighted 60 pst. and price 40 pst. Is it true that Go-Ahead scores the highest on just 1 of the 15 quality criteria? In that case, it may appear that the tender is designed in such a way that the price determined is actually the price. All the tenderers deliver well enough on quality, and then the lowest price is determined. Is that so? Is it really the case that if a tenderer only dumps the price enough, he or she wins the tender? Wasn't that exactly what we in the opposition warned against, and that we got insurance from the majority that it shouldn't be? In his statement, the Minister of Transport said something such as that the allocation itself took place without political interference. Yeah, I think so, too. I certainly don't think the Minister for Transport himself has been sitting and being in the award. But I was reasonably sure that the NSB was not going to win that offer. For the majority of the population and the government have said from the very outset that one of the foundations of the railway reform is that one wants to cut the NSB and wants other actors to enter the rail market. The Minister of Transport spent a great deal of time on the tasks delegated to the Directorate of Railways, what the Department is responsible for, and what the Directorate of Railways is responsible for. I get that, and there's definitely a lane. But the political responsibility lies with the Minister for Transport. The responsibility here on the pulpit towards Stortinget is that of the Minister of Transport, regardless of what he personally has done after becoming Minister of Transport, what the Director of Railways has done, and what his predecessors may have done. Political responsibility lies with the Minister for Transport. We have everything to serve on openness in this room. The Labour Party therefore believes that we should proceed with the matter. Everyone has everything to gain from all the facts coming on the table. I therefore propose, in line with the provisions of Section 45 of the Rules of Procedure, that the statement be sent to the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e3779	First of all, I would like to thank the Council of State for the presentation – a thorough presentation related to the tendering process on the Sørlandsbanen, Arendalsbanen and Jærbanen, or Traffic Package 1 South, as it is also called. The statement gives a good overview of the process, from the implementation of the railway reform and the design of the procurement objectives, to the implementation of the tendering process, the assessment of award criteria and the award of the tender by the Directorate-General for Railways. There might be reason to remind ourselves of the situation in Norwegian railway only a few years back in time. It was characterised by a lack of regularity, service disruption and dissatisfaction with customers. That is also the background to the need to invest more on the Norwegian railway system and organise us better. The railway reform facilitates a clearer division of responsibilities, increased investment in infrastructure and the use of competitive tendering in passenger train services. That's the last thing that's going on here today. The offer of Traffic Package 1 South shows that competition works. Competition strengthens players in terms of both quality and price, which will benefit customers. The tender competition means that the customer is put in the centre. According to the Railway Directorate, there were small differences in quality between the three tenders included in the final round. In such a situation, the price becomes a decisive factor, although this criterion is only weighted by 40 pst. The Directorate-General for Railways has made an overall assessment based on the criteria used. Although quality is weighted by 60 pst, that doesn't mean that price is immaterial. The lower the cost the state has to deliver a good quality offer on this route, the more money we have for other important purposes of transport, such as transport. developing the Norwegian railway system. One important objective of rail reform and tendering is to increase customer satisfaction. When several take the train, there will be increased revenues for the train companies, and we will relieve the road network. It is interesting to note that the cost of purchasing passenger train services on this route is falling significantly – not because it is primarily a struggle to have the lowest costs, but a struggle to get more people to take the train. Happy Go-Ahead to create the customer growth that they have created, is something that should please the whole Stortinget. Another effect of this tendering process is that the NSB also demonstrates that they can provide higher quality services and at a significantly lower cost to the country. That's interesting, that's probably an example of how new organisation and competition work. And even though the NSB did not win out of this competition, they are definitely better equipped to meet the next tender package. Laws, rules and procedures relating to tendering procedures are currently in place. It is also possible to appeal against decisions, and the Council of State has explained the case in the course of such a review. Those who have taken part in this tendering procedure are professional operators who know the law and I am sure will use the opportunity to complain if they believe that there is a basis for doing so. None of the actors has submitted this to KOFA, which is the Board of Appeal for Public Acquisitions. In this respect, there is every reason to believe that the actors are satisfied with the process and that the rules for public acquisitions have been followed. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre have been against the railway reform from the first day. They should be, even if Traffic Package 1 South indicates that tenders are working. Customers get a better offer, and the cost to the state is reduced. The orientation of the State Council shows that the tender procedure for Traffic Package 1 South has been conducted in a tidy manner. Therefore, this tendering process should not be an arena for the re-combination of railway reform. It will only contribute to the creation of unnecessary uncertainties related to public procurement procedures. I note that the representative of Myrli wanted the presentation to be forwarded to the Transport and Communications Committee for further consideration. In my opinion, we should be able to conclude this matter with the information we have received today, but we will not object to it being sent to the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e3800	I would like to thank you for the presentation – I think it was a good and thorough presentation. I think it's important that questions that have been raised, both here in the hall and in the media, are answered in a good way. If this matter, which has received quite a lot of attention in the media, is media-made or politicians-made, I'm actually a little uncertain about. As far as rail bets are concerned, statements have been made by the opposition that this government no longer wants anything by rail, there is no bet. But there is no doubt that there is over a doubling of the stake on the railway since this government joined. More than 100 train sets go out of Oslo S now than it did in 2013, and it has to be built and bet more. The railway reform is just about being able to create competition, and for me and the Progress Party, it is a little special that competition in all modes of transport other than the railway is all right, because it is so complicated. I and the Progress Party do not understand that. The fact that you have a competition that makes sure you put customers in focus, to get customer satisfaction – that’s why you have to drive a train. That's the customers it's about; it's focus and target management that makes it the customer experiences and driving when customers need it, it's about. Punctuality and regularity, that's what it's all about for everyone who runs trains, that you can trust it, and there must be a rice behind the mirror if you don't deliver the services. The big question for me is how the NSB itself could almost halve the price of its tender. That's the big question everybody should be asking. How does it go, how has it happened that no one has ever taken hold of it, but bought train services without asking what we are getting? Is it possible to get it more reasonable, is it possible to get better quality? Nobody's ever asked me that before. You just pay and buy the services. In all other areas of the community, transport services are subject to price — yes, even in the counties. As far as I know, it is not the Progress Party that governs them – they are governed by the Workers' Party in many places. There you buy services in public transport — competition — and it works. So you're very satisfied. And the fact that you suspect someone because there's someone else who wins a bid, I hope not become a debater for a rematch on the principle, for the principle I think is firm, when even the NSB can run so much cheaper than they've done before. It should be a cross of thought. The party of progress is in favour of competition, we have always been, but I also have great respect for the fact that others have a different view. And when the Workers' Party at Sverre Myrli calls for a committee hearing, I think the position should be clear enough to have respect for it. We support the fact that we take a committee reading and get a worthy end to this debate, even if I do not see the need for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e3813	I would also like to thank you for a thorough account that describes the processes from a to, and certainly some information that the Council of State had to collect before he started. Much is probably also self-experienced at the end stage. He describes a process that has actually been a little bit bidirectional. There has been a reform, and, at the same time as the Directorate was established, a tendering process was initiated, which meant that the Ministry had quite a responsibility at an early stage – I would believe more responsibility than when implementing similar processes as part of the other railway packages. It was the department that set the qualitative objectives. They set award criteria and assigned a mandate to the Directorate for the implementation of the tender process itself. I experience that in the distinction between who has a responsibility from a to a, there may be some steps wrong. This with quality was a criterion on which the tender was based. That's what was to be given the most weight – 60 pst. on quality, 40 pst. at the price. All tenderers know that the award criteria and the weighting of the criteria lead to what they choose. Everyone who's been in matters with KOFA knows that that's what's given weight. When the Council of State then says that the political level in the department has not had its hand on the last part of the process, this has been delegated down to the Directorate, it is a decision that the department has made. But all delegation will lead to the need for a control function. Control functions are a little special in the case of the state and the ministry in relation to grossing up. It cannot be seen in the same way as a normal private enterprise, and it is clear that those who have legal requirements for transparency and for complaints against KOFA have the right to do so, as the minister says. I would say, however, that in terms of control, perhaps especially in a reform that is now kind of rolling out, and that is, I would say dimensionally different from what has been done before, of course, it is in place when a index finger is fixed on whether everything is done correctly. I hope everyone in this room is fully open – and I also think it is good with the signals sent from the position – that this needs to get a more thorough evaluation. I would also say as Myrli that to us it is impossible to see what is right or wrong. But we are also ombudsmen, who are going to kind of lift a index finger. And what consequences can there be for the next tendering process if more than one tenderer loses confidence that the best bidders will win? So it's mixed a little policy into the discussion here as well, it's always. When you describe that if you do it this way, it has proved that it is quality and price and not least customer satisfaction that comes into focus, I would think that the state, as the owner of its own company, was also previously occupied by customers, was concerned with quality. Reforms can be done within the organisation that already exists. Although we have a different view of what's going on in the private market, I think most people have the same basic view of what's going to be provided by services. What I think is the most daunting thing is that someone -- and these people are people with a high level of competence -- claims and simply says that there has been a double drive here. There have been some meetings and some influence that should not have been there. Then I think that in order to get maybe even better ground to think about it, at least we recommend the same thing as Myrli, that the matter be sent to the committee, and that we can take a further discussion there.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e3828	I thank the Council of State for the presentation. It was good he came to the Storting and held it. It took some time. If he had come a little earlier, he had released three tight questions last Wednesday. But in any case: it is obvious that SV has been opposed to the so-called railway reform – there is no big secret – by the fact that routes are to be offered. One as important, complicated part of Norwegian infrastructure as the railway is was supposed to be on public hands and be in public operation, we now believe. But when the majority with right-wing ideology will do this, with the help of the Christian People's Party, we have to fight further for the employees and for the passengers, when the Southern Railway is to be run by the British company Go-Ahead, which does not have a particularly good reputation. The more days have passed since the tender was awarded, the more moments have come up, and the more questions are created – and there are questions that have not received any specific answer in the Chamber today, I regret to say that. It is improperly relevant and a trick to point out that one of the reasons for the whole of the railway reform was that passengers should be in the centre. Then I understand that service and quality should be essential. Yes, the government followed up this by creating the criteria for the tender, i.e. what should be stressed, and then they would use this basis to assess the tenders. It's been repeated here many times: 60 pst. quality, 40 pst. price. But then it turns out that Go-Ahead scored the best on just 1 of these 15 quality criteria compared to NSB and SJ, even though quality should count the most. It's no wonder there's speculation. Then it has also emerged that within the three sub-criteria, among others. getting satisfied customers, who were to be given considerable weight, scored Go-Ahead at the worst on all three. I got something on today based on the Council of State's statement that it was a matter of customer satisfaction being emphasized 40 pst. It has also appeared, through the reports of the Evening Post, that the Railway Directorate has operated with two calculations – an official and an unofficial. The unofficial, which the public can't see, and neither do we here in the hall, and which would contain company secrets, is, as I understand, the basis for giving the Go-Ahead Southern Railway. Lawyer Robert Myhre, who is a leading expert on this very thing with acquisitions and contract law, says to Evening Post that he cannot understand that such important parts were to be kept secret, and he says directly that the rules of the railway competition are broken. It is not so strange that we ask questions and are skeptical, and we did not actually get any clarification on this particular question here today either. SV could not understand why the Council of State and the Government parties would not be involved in an independent review of this large bid, in order to create confidence in such large processes. In such major changes in an important area of society, the Council of State should be interested in as much transparency as possible, both for employees, for passengers and perhaps for the Council of State itself, so that he had all the facts on the table as to whether the tendering process has been good and after the book. In particular, on the basis of the latest information around the North package, but also in the light of this southern part of the bidding round, it almost seems that the Council of State is gambling with the Norwegian railway. But he refuses to check if the rules have been followed, and it is quite unsustainable in the eyes of SV. For example, questions that we need to clarify and that this comprehensive statement, at least in volume terms, has not been clarified.What do these secret calculations show that they must have been decisive for Go-Ahead to win? How could the price end up being so crucial when quality would count 60 pst.? How is that possible? So what's the point of the beautiful 60/40 distribution in quality? I have not received an answer to that. It can almost seem as if we have been given a kind of new form of governance here in the Chamber, where it is not the Council of State that is responsible down in the rows. And it is a strange affair – of course it is the Council of State which the representative Myrli pointed out, which is responsible. Finally, a small explanation of what SV will vote on Red's loose proposal. A recommendation from Stortinget that the Riksrevision should investigate the situation seems to us to be a drastic step that is rarely used. But because of the seriousness we will now vote for it, and it is simply a flag of the seriousness of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e3847	I too would like to thank Minister of Transport Jon Georg Dale for the presentation. It was very extensive, it was long, and not least contained the information that was important for us to trust that the process of these tenders has been conducted in a proper and good way. From the first day, it has appeared that there has been a good knowledge of how to implement such tenders — not least in the final phase, where it is important that there is no political interference, where the Ministry of Transport and the Minister of Transport have kept a long way from who was finally elected. There were clear criteria – I hear it's about 60 pst. quality and 40 pst. price. But what we also hear is that the offers from the different ones were quite even when it came to quality. Then it's clear that the final calculation can be in favor of price, that it's the one that finally decides, because you might have had very similar quality criteria for this. The left is very busy that we're going to use the railway more in Norway. I heard that the Council of State mentioned the number of 74 million passengers. It's a huge number, but we're not satisfied with it at all. We want a much higher number, because we think it's a potential for much more passengers on Norwegian rail in the future. Passengers want to use the train. You think it's comfortable and safe, and not least that it's a fast mode of transport where you can both work and have it quite comfortable while sitting on the train. It is important for the Left when we have invested so much – not least in the NTP – in order for the railway operation to grow in Norway, because it is the mode of transport that passengers want most of all modes of transport. I hear the minister is very concerned that there have been several tenders for other modes of transport. That's also what we're wondering about. Why isn't it as interesting to outsource rail as anything else? A week ago, in part, we also had a small debate on this, when we had the debate on the budget of the Ministry of Transport. The representative Sverre Myrli then replied that it is not the right medicine. He said that on several occasions in that debate – it's not the right medicine. I mean, medicine is too sick. I did not know that Sverre Myrli believed that the train operation in Norway was so sick that it needed medicine – it was clear that this was what happened. But outsourcing is not a medicine; it is a tool to get the best offer and the best both the passenger experience and the price – not least for the state and, ultimately, also for the customers. I think it is incredibly important that we insist that we continue to have the competitive outsourcing of transport services. The left will also agree that we should discuss this further in the committee, a little bit because that's the first time we do it. We're going to respect that, it's not easy when you do it for the first time. But this must also be said: we need to have more tenders for railway packages around the future. I'm already looking forward to Traffic Pack 2, because it's in my district. I hope that can lead to a much better train offer than what you have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e3860	I think it is good that many people are concerned about the railways, that we get an offer that corresponds to the expectations we have of a rail reform, that it is delivered in line with what has been the intention of this reorganisation. I also understand that there were people who opposed this reform when it was introduced. I think it's quite fair to be against it. When the Christian People's Party agreed to this reform, it was precisely for us to get a train service in Norway that meant that more people used the train than they had done before. It was to make it more user-friendly, get a better railway, which could be an even more important collective offer for more people than it is today. That's why we agreed to this, and that's why we also supported a railway reform that could create a greater degree of cleanness and clarity when it came to the division of roles within the railway station we had until then. Today’s presentation shows that the roles have been practiced according to what has been the intention of the new organisation. I think the Council of State has well prepared this. I think we should be glad that it was so clearly stated that there was no political leadership that put its hands down in the tenders and had direct contact with the various tenderers who have been on the road here. At least it would have created speculations about cleanliness and how this has been handled. When one also hears and sees that the state here can save significant amounts, large expenses, I think this is a point that we are going to take with us, and that can also mean more railways, more trains, for the Norwegian citizens – when we also experience that the working conditions of employees have been preserved in the transitional arrangements made for those who have been employed in the NSB and who are moving into the new company. The representative of Constantaune calls for an evaluation. I fully agree that we should get an evaluation of a reform of such a size as the railway reform is, but we must allow the train to leave the station before we can start evaluating the new reform that we have now received. We have to have some time. Then we should definitely come back to an evaluation of as well as of the road reform, which we have also discussed in this Chamber. I think as simple as that if there was a strong experience of injustice in this tender award, the first people who had responded would have been the actors themselves. That's the way it is in the business world. They have not chosen to pursue this case – and had the opportunity to do so. I feel that it is an expression that they experience competition as fair. So today I will also support the proposal of the representative of Myrli – I hope he notices that the Christian People's Party supports the Workers' Party's proposal that the matter be referred to the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e3880	The more that emerges about the bidding round, the more unblemished it seems. There are hidden calculations and a tender winner that no one will explain how can have won. It's a little trusting. In the tendering round about Traffic Package 1 South that Go-Ahead won, quality would count more than price. Nevertheless, the bidders Go-Ahead have scored worse than the competitors at 12 out of 15 quality points. When Go-Ahead was announced as a winner, the Directorate presented Go-Ahead’s ‘ambitious arrangements for obtaining more customers’. Since then it has been found that Go-Ahead has a worse setup to get more customers than both SJ and NSB. It has also been found that Go-Ahead had a so-called negotiating meeting with the Railway Directorate before making their final offer, contrary to the rules for the tendering round. In the media, the directorate has rejected the fact that this was a negotiating meeting, but it is thus referred to as in the minutes. Go-Ahead was close to being rejected because of the ‘uneconomic profile’ early in the process, but suddenly managed to deliver a much lower price in the interview – a price that made them win the bidding round. Then there is doubt as to whether there are two calculations in the tender round. One thing we know, it's obvious to the public. But an internal calculation that didn't show up and that was crucial to getting Go-Ahead won, we don't see. I have tried many times to get answers from the Council of State and from the Directorate on how Go-Ahead could win when the other providers scored best on the bet program for new customers, when getting new customers was just the reason that Go-Ahead could deliver at as good a price as they stated. The Council of State does not answer the question. He says he does not have access to the offers because the Railway Directorate is responsible for the execution of the tendering procedure. So we're going to ask the directorate the same question. And then what is the answer? Well, then the answer is: ask the Council of State for this! We have therefore seen the need to send a desire for transparency, through the presidency, where we focus on the special position and information needs of representatives. That request was answered by the State Council, Dale, saying that he does not have the documents I am asking for, and therefore cannot assess the request. He again asks me to address the request to the Railway Directorate, which again refers back to the Council of State! In sum: no one will, or no one can, tell me or the passengers how this bidding round has been conducted, and how the winner has actually been selected. And when neither the directorate nor the transport minister can answer, or will answer, relatively simple questions about how Go-Ahead won the tender, then one starts to wonder what has happened in the case, not least because the confidence in the bidding round is weakened as more information emerges. It's not very reliable. I also do not understand the reluctance to have the bidding round examined. Now the State Council itself has said to the Evening Post that he has no plans to contribute to a review of the competition, while the National Audit Office says they are considering whether to look at the bidding rounds. The Christian People's Party and the bourgeois voted last week on a proposal for an independent review of the bidding round. These parties should see that even those who are in favour of privatisation of the railways in Norway have an interest in clearing up any doubts about the matter of things having been done in the right or wrong way. This was not answered in the long, thorough and thorough presentation of the Council of State. So how could they win when they score worse than the competitors on 12 out of 15 criteria and worse on the plans for getting more passengers? For this reason, I ask the Council of State: How can I and the public get insight into important aspects of the matter when neither the Council of State nor the Directorate will answer – just point to each other? We need to get a clear answer to that today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e3901	It would probably have been an advantage if the representatives listened to what I said during the announcement that lasted almost 50 minutes. When the representative of Moxnes says that there was a negotiating meeting where Go-Ahead subsequently improved his offer, that is simply not true. That's what's the main challenge in this discussion. I have the constitutional responsibility for what's going on in the transport sector. I take that responsibility too. But we have chosen – The Stortinget has chosen – to separate the division of responsibilities between the department and the directorate, so that it is the directorate, without political interference, that makes the assessments of the individual supply, because one has meant – the Stortinget has meant – that it is the most important basis for confidence in players in a market, that the policy remains at arm’s length. That's the responsibility that Stortinget has said is to be distributed as I've kept to, and that the department has adhered to. Therefore, it might be interesting for me to have some more – of course it could – but what we all depend on is that market players have confidence in this process. What I notice is that all so-called experts who have commented on this matter, and all the other actors who have been most critical, are not the players who have participated in the competition, are not the players who have had billions in play, are not the actors who have spent time, money and resources on positioning and trying to win these offers. They haven't spent any time on this. It's largely the opposition that has spent time on it. The open rhetorical question is, is it really competition in the opposition sector occupied or is it political debate? Political speculation can drive us along. I could be a part of it, too. We can have a lot of discussions about that, even after the discussion that is about to take place in committee. But the department has acted neatly. I've done the right thing for that. What we've seen, I've now briefed the Storting about. That means that the information I have been on today has now been given to Stortinget. This means that the insights that Stortinget would like to have into detailed assessments in the offer, are not my own and the ministry. How could Go-Ahead win the offer? Well, they delivered the offer that the directorate – which is the one that the Storting has set to be responsible for assessing supply – considered that had the best supply, based on the award criteria given – 60 pst. on quality, 40 pst. at the price. How is Go-Ahead going to make this go up? How do they get more customers? Well, it's precisely because they've calculated with multiple customers using the train that they can deliver a better price. Then there are two questions. How do we think that the company that won this bidding round should really achieve that more people take the train well if the quality doesn't matter? It is also completely incomprehensible to me. But that is why it is good to know that even in the bidding round we have just been through, the quality of today’s supply – today’s supply, provided by the NSB – is the minimum basis for being fully involved in the competition at Traffic Package 1 South. The second question is, what kind of supply should they deliver at least as well as today? They have provided an offer that increases the number of departures on the Railway and on weekends, because they think it gives more passengers. It is a concrete result of the weighting of quality in supply, based on the Ministry’s determination of award criteria with a high level of emphasis on quality. I don't ignore the fact that we're given the opportunity to discuss this in Stortinget several times, and I'm looking so far forward to it. It is imperative to break monopoly also in 2018. But the discussion about confidence in the market now shows to a large extent that one has, to the Storing and Opposition here, which are the ones that contribute most to making this a debate, not the actors that have had billions of values in games.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e3918	The debate on substance is closed. So 10 is over. The President proposed that the distribution to the Minister for Transport of the Southern Railway bidding round be sent to the Transport and Communications Committee. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e3938	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be a replacement of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e3947	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Good Cooperation. It is an important theme that SV has put on the agenda, and it is on the agenda. In Document 8:22 S for 2018-2019, proposers focus on five points: ensure that freight trains are prioritised on the network at night where there is little or no significant change of route for passenger trains; examining and proposing support schemes for the transfer of goods from road to sea; examining and proposing a transport register for all international freight, combined transport and cabotage operations in Norway; ensure that new electronic consignment notes scheduled for use in the CRM Directive are made mandatory; propose the necessary regulatory changes to ensure that fines for infringements of the cabotage code can be imposed when the breach is detected; The hearing was held on 25 October 2018 with the good participation of interested parties. For the sake of debate, it is important to note that the objective of moving at least 30 pst. of the total quantity of goods transported from road to sea and track relates to the goods carried longer than 300 km. In reality, the target is about 5 pst. of the total quantity of goods. This was also underlined by the Hearing Officers. During the hearing it was also pointed out that it was necessary to allow longer trains to be run in order to compete with the modular train combinations. Furthermore, it was shown that the industry has proposed an environmental aid scheme in line with other European countries of the order of 200 million. kr. In this context, the urgent need arising from the notification by the freight forwarders of cuts in the offer of some sections was highlighted. The proposals in Document 8:22 S for 2018–2019 have two angles: one concerns the transfer of goods from road to rail, the other concerns the fight against illegal cabotage operations in the transport sector, the other concerns proposals 3–5. It is widely agreed that freight trains should be given priority during daily periods when passenger traffic is smaller. However, it must be pointed out that freight trains can be very noisy and that this must be taken into account in terms of the volume of transport during the night. It is also necessary to set aside time for maintenance and monitoring of the network at night. Point 2 of the draftsmen's motion for a resolution on the proposal for a system of aid for the carriage of goods by road and sea became a main theme for several hearing bodies. The majority of the Committee is asked to follow this further. In this connection, I refer you to the letter of 7 December 2018 from the Minister for Transport. I expect the Council of State to explain what is being done on the occasion of the case. The last three points of the draft representative are the fight against illegal cabotage and social dumping. The majority in the Committee believe that the efforts to prevent illegal cabotage and social dumping can only succeed in cooperation with other countries and have noticed that the ministry is actively working on this. However, there may be grounds for looking into the proposal for regulatory changes relating to the imposition of fines for infringements of the cabotage legislation, in particular the Norwegian Freight Car Association has highlighted this. Paradoxically, it's called decriminalizing crimes to facilitate the imposition of fines on the spot. There is today a loose proposal from the Christian People's Party that I would recommend that we support. There is a broad consensus on the goal of getting more goods across from road to track. The main action here is the implementation of the freight package, which is part of the national transport plan 2018-2029. Many measures have been proposed here, with a total cost framework of 18 billion. kr. Among other things, reference is made to: electrification of track sections new rail links in Elverum, Kongsvinger and Hokksund upgrade of the Alnabru terminal Modernising and improving the efficiency of multiple freight terminals construction of new or extension of existing crossing tracks new signalling system to facilitate cross-border freight transport Furthermore, it is noted that continuous maintenance and control of the network is important for safety as well as for ensuring good uptime, predictability and punctuality for both passengers and freight. There is also a need to increase the carrying-over capacity so that more and/or longer freight trains can operate the freight train sections. Greater volumes mean more efficient cargo and thus increasing competitiveness of other freight transport. New or extended crossing tracks shall be built on, in other words, all the major freight train sections. I also refer to the position where the majority proposes that Document 8:22 S for 2018-2019 not be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e4006	Let me first say that I think it is very good that SV promoted his representative proposal, which was originally well in five points. Three points have been added through the committee reading, so that there are now eight proposals, which are behind the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV. Then I take the opportunity to take up the eight minority proposals from the vote. It's pretty difficult, I have to say, and a little frustrating that it's so hard to get the bulk of the population involved in anything about doing anything to save rail freight. Last week – it is probably exactly a week ago tonight – we debated the transport budget for 2019. There the opposition also had some suggestions to do something about the very – I would say – dramatic situation of freight traffic on the railway. But no, no proposals promoted by the opposition, the bourgeois majority adopts. This is not a suggestion that we've been sitting on a back room and found on. This is a proposal that comes primarily from the freight industry, which comes from the transport companies, which comes from the large collectors, who come from Post Norway, who tell us that something has to be done, otherwise in a short time we can be without freight on the railway, away from the ore traffic on Ofotbanen and the transport of timber. The container transport on the railway, which is what we are talking about in the first place, can disappear if nothing dramatic happens. We promote proposals on a proposal, and the government investigates and investigates and investigates – fine lectures and fine lectures and fine lectures, but very little concrete action. I think the case rapporteur, Mr Igstad, made a good point. What is contained in the freight package in the national transport plan is good. Then I have said it – praise to the government for it, but it is many years ahead. New freight terminals, new crossing tracks, new swings, as it is called when a connecting line between different sections of the track is built – this is good, but it is necessarily a few years ahead. Now we have to act in the short term. Now we have to do something in the short term, and then it doesn't help to refer to the freight package. It might not be a freight industry to build terminals for if we don't do anything right now. Therefore, proposals have been presented from the freight industry that a so-called aid or incentive scheme should be put in place. How it's supposed to be designed, there's no answer to it, but at least let's start that work. We are promoting in the next case that we are dealing with here, the proposal that a compensation scheme be introduced for rail charges, so that freight companies get their train charges reduced as they get passenger trains. There is not a huge amount of money that freight pays in rail charges, but it would have been an important hand bill as the situation is now. We have proposed that we stop planned increases in rail charges, which we have also received from the transport industry – but no, the majority say no, no, no. It was nice that the Christian People's Party could vote for one of my proposals that went on something as simple as a procedure in Stortinget, but none of our other proposals can vote for the Christian People's Party. Are all the eight proposals so bad? Later this evening, the Christian People's Party is willing to grant a lot of money to the Human Rights Service. Then there is no limit to what the Christian People's Party can be on. There they can sacrifice everything on the altar of the Advance Party, but they cannot therefore vote in favour. No matter what the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the SV promote, there is one thing that is certain: the Count and the Christian People's Party vote against. Then we won't move on. There will be no measures for the goods industry. Then there will be no change in the policy being pursued. I have to say that it has made the impression of working on these questions in the last months, meeting the transport industry, meeting the collectors, meeting the Post that met and saying that if nothing happens – and I think the Post, a major serious state business, is the largest user of containers on the railway – we may not be shipping mail on the railway in a few years' time. It's sad that we have such a massive majority that won't do anything really for rail freight.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e4021	The representative Sverre Myrli has drawn up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e4026	The car is a good one that has come to stay. This applies not only to the passenger car but also to the truck. I actually think that most people have realized that we are totally dependent on trucks, especially in shorter distances. There's an undisputed favorite. The truck runs directly from the manufacturer to the customer, and it becomes the fastest and cheapest and easiest. But over longer distances of more than 300 km, there is also quite a consensus that freight can be transferred from car and road to sea and track. More goods from road to track are not just opposition concerns. It's also the government. The so-called freight package in the NTP is 18 billion. kr and was very well received by everyone from the transport industry, the forestry industry and not least from the south to the north — yes, actually as far north as to the north. I appreciate the intolerance of the industry and the opposition regarding the package of goods, and I can assure you that this impatience is shared by us. That is why we have a close and good dialogue with the government on the follow-up to the objectives of the NTP and other measures that can contribute to increased capacity on the rail network, such as: freight trains must be prioritised at night. A concrete example: Why is Oslo S closed at night? Then it should be possible to drive several freight trains. This is something we have taken up with the government and asked to look at the possibility of opening Oslo S for freight trains at night. But it is also important to take into account those who live along the train tracks and ensure that they are adequately protected by noise. Freight trains noises as known significantly more than passenger trains. It is also important to use public funds targeted and not just tossing money out of the window, in order to use tabloid rhetoric. I want to remind you that we're now using over 2 billion. kr for the planning of railway construction. There is an enormous amount of money, and perhaps the most important thing is to look at how these funds are used, before proposing to spend even more of the taxpayers' money on planning projects that may never be realized.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e4039	This is one of those things, at least that I've been away since I started on the Storting, where there's actually unison agreement. This is a matter that has been given some framework through the NTP, and that the whole Storting has been behind. When the case is heard by the rapporteur, it would not really be so difficult to support the proposals that have emerged as part of the committee we have had. Aid schemes for the transfer of goods from road to sea became a major theme, as several have said here — almost all the hearing bodies were involved. As mentioned earlier, the industry has proposed an environmental aid scheme in line with other European countries. I've said in the past that it's probably not the 150 million. SEK-200 million. We're talking about, because there's a significant investment on the railway, so there's room for that within the budgets that already exist. It is clearly a call from both the Centre Party and from many other parties – now this is not about debating in the Stortinget, it is about an active action to avoid falling off the load. The requirement to run longer trains is more complex than to change the timetable. We all know what it takes to get this in place, and the willingness to do it might be the most important part. What they might talk about a little bit is the many trails that are now carrying goods on Norwegian roads. So it's not the four-field roads we're really talking about here – E136 over Lesja: 6500 new cars, that's as far as it's a yellow stripe of some places. I live in that area, and we already notice it now. If you look at the weather that has been in the last few days, this is a traffic trap, and that's something we have to do with. I believe that the government must make proposals as soon as possible as to which of the measures contained in the freight package in the national transport plan can be accelerated and given a faster start to construction than that outlined in the railway sector's action programme. It is also important that freight trains are prioritised on the network at night. There's one thing you can do quickly, and then you have to decide if it's most important that everyone keeps the night sleep a hundred percent or if you're going to avoid having several thousand new trailers along the way. I'm sure someone will wake up at night when they stumble by as well. As I said, goods on the track are about to collapse, and it's literally not this of the load. The broad consensus and the unisonous descriptions of the negative consequences in the absence of a support scheme must be taken seriously. All the hearings were completely crystal clear. What do we actually see now? We see a government that is unable to translate words into action. We in the Center Party are of the clear opinion that this is not about getting fresh money into the year's budget. There is already a significant investment on rail in the state budget for 2019 – over 6.2 billion. kr – so the action space is there. Contractual measures must be put in place if rail freight is to survive until the government freight package of 18 billion. be effective. To avoid getting into a situation where this will only reinforce itself, I imagine that we can go together and try to find a purely practical solution. I hope the Council of State will take that, no matter what you decide from this setting, because this is a matter that needs to be resolved and not just discussed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e4060	I thank you for all the nice words about the proposal and for that being promoted – that was not the way! And then we see how many people vote for this then, finally. The background to the SV's proposal for a representative is simply that we have seen what many others have seen, what the Riksrevision has seen, what the freight forwarders have seen, those who must have goods on the railway – and who certainly also the government has seen – that the railway loses in the competition for the goods. Transport by vehicle combinations on rubber wheels wins. The measures contained in the freight package in the national transport plan will not be effective in time to save goods on the road, and action now needs to be taken. Tight measures. That's the situation. Several hearing bodies pointed out that the use of significant funds for improved infrastructure on the road with power after 2020 is not sustainable. We have to get these measures right now. In one way, this is to compare with giving an acute heart patient good dietary advice. You've got to do something urgent right then! Measures are needed to prevent cuts in goods on the road now, both adaptations and adjustments in driving rules – we were included in our proposals – and support schemes. The SV's representative proposal was completed by the Workers' Party's proposal, so there were eight points at the end of the Committee's proceedings, and these are simply measures to address the acute needs of the railways. I would also like to mention that at the same time we need to look at the increased foreign dominance of road freight, because this has clear implications for rail competitiveness. Everyone has seen the enormous foreign dominance of international freight transport on the road. This is, of course, due to a liberal EEA legislation and should not surprise so many. It's legal, and it's also legal to let drivers run with low pay, lice pay, i.e. in the home Member State, or where they allow it. In Norway, we do not allow that. There shall be a generalised salary, Norwegian tariff conditions, when you drive a cabotage in this country. But when they get the samples, terrible conditions are often revealed. The regulatory control is therefore far too poor. At the hearing on the matter, we could note that all the authorities felt that stronger measures had to be taken to combat social dumping and cabotage in the transport industry in Norway. When you can drive at 50 kroner per hour, everyone realizes that you can dump the prices on the road. And this also has consequences for Norwegian carriers, which destroys their competitiveness. But anyway, the railroad is losing again. Therefore, there is a link between the control of international cabotage and the price pressure in the carriage of goods on rubber wheels and the suffering of the railway. I would therefore like to propose in very concrete terms what many operators in the industry have pointed to, and this is what our proposal says: the need for electronic shipping. And then we talk about the driver not being able to sit with some copy pencil and print out shipping notes in his car. So this is an electronically registered consignment note. And we want this so-called CRM directive to be made mandatory, that we get an electronic consignment note system. In addition, the authorities do not even have an overview of how many foreign car combinations are in the country at any time — we do not know that — and much less what they do and how often they take new jobs. As you know, this is regulated in Norway. Only three assignments a week are legal in Norway. So what many have asked for is a transport register. Among other things, the newly established Transport and Logistics Association has made that proposal several times, and they have driven hard pressure on it. So: there is a very great need for such a transport register. In this way, it is easy to access the movement of vehicles; it is provided with an overview of whether they are cabotage, third country or combined transport. Such a register would benefit both the State Road Administration, the Labour Inspectorate, the police, the Customs Service and the Central Statistical Office. So this is the most important thing I would stress. I ask the representatives to look through the proposal for a transport register, and that is perhaps the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e4081	With regard to the SV's proposal for a representative, which relates to sustainable freight and more goods on the road, it is quite clear that it is worrying that it actually decreases, because here it says'more goods on the road'. So it's going down at the moment – we're still getting messages about it – and it's not good either for road safety or for the green shift, which would be much closer to the goal if we had transported more goods on the road. So it's like there's been a bunch of suggestions. Unfortunately, I did not participate in the hearing, but nevertheless I have seen through the hearing replies that there has been a lot of money support, i.e. to get better conditions to operate this freight transport. That's what might prevent us from taking part in the decisions, because we in the left are at least very careful to know that we're spending our money properly in order to achieve the right things. Many of these measures may come eventually, when the Ministry of Transport is asked to investigate them and not least to look at the problems of the goods industry, but I believe at this point that such a representative proposal is not the right way to go to deal with this. I think that the transport industry really needs to make an assessment – that one considers who can give the best offer. We know that we have a goal of 30 pst. on track and sea, and we have to say that unfortunately it seems that the sea is not working, for example. as regards cargo of salmon. We are now trying it from both Hitra and Vikna in Trøndelag, in order to get it down to Hirtshals, where the salmon is to be further processed. It would have been very good if it had worked out, but it's a very small volume preliminary. Absolutely most of the time is by car, and that's of course because logistics is better with it, and time consumption is much lower than both by sea and by rail. There are such factors that we have to take with us. It is a product to be delivered to a market, so it is not just to think about what mode of transport we are going to use, because you are waiting for that product from either the consumer or the manufacturer, the factory that is going to process it. It is nice that we work a lot to get more environmentally friendly freight traffic. I still hope that the Ministry of Transport is working on this. Then I think that the Christian People's Party's proposal for cabotage and those fees are a good step on the way, because it can be a good way to at least take on the illegalities that occur in the market.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e4092	The size has set a target of at least 30 pst. of road transport operations over 300 kilometres shall be carried over at sea or by rail by 2030 and that this measure shall be 50 pst. by 2050. That's ambitious goals, but it's absolutely necessary to achieve them. The more goods we get from the road to the sea, the better the air quality and the climate. We get fewer accidents, less wear and tear and fewer cows. In the proposal for a representative now before us, it is the railway it points to as an important factor. The transport of goods is complicated. Salesmen and carriers are working to get complicated puzzles to go up. Much of the goods have to be driven on the road simply because there is no alternative, but if we are to get a freight transfer where the potential is greater, namely on the long distances, the railway must become more competitive. There is a cross-political consensus that more goods have to pass on rails, but there is basically no government that has particular reason to hit the chest in that context. I would nevertheless claim that there is a basis for a pace change now. We have an ambitious national transport plan, some important decisions have been made, including: related to a dedicated freight package strategy and incentives for getting new freight routes at sea are established. We need to be aware that there are some obvious conflicts in transport policy. For example, it would be effective to apply very restrictive measures to road traffic in order to make the railway more competitive. But we also know that these types of instruments will conflict directly with the objective of reducing transport costs for business. The most important thing is that we get a reliable and efficient railway sector. It's a success factor, and now we're running a railway lift and a railway development reform. We believe that in the Christian People's Party will have a positive effect on both the short and longer term, not least in terms of getting more goods on rails. At the same time, we need more concrete instruments, including: of the kind we find in the transport plan adopted by Stortinget. In that plan there are many good measures that the Christian People's Party supports. Proposalers address some competition and working conditions issues in the transport sector. It deserves attention, because here we are dealing with something important. I am thinking in particular of what the vote says as proposal No. Eight, about cabotage. I will give tribute to the red-green parties to promote a good and important proposal. We're in line here. It's important to get rid of illegal cabotage. We need to have faster and more effective sanctions and controls, we need to close out those drivers who do not comply with Norwegian law, or who come with vehicles that do not hold good enough standards. It is about both justice and non-discrimination, that no Norwegian drivers are being competed by foreign drivers because they are getting along illegally. It is also highly concerned with safety, safe roads and safe drivers. Poorly equipped cars with drivers who do not have sufficient qualifications to master heavy duty vehicles on Norwegian winter roads are a safety risk that concerns us all. Therefore, it must be a central objective in this work that vehicle combinations on Norwegian roads should be safe and have safe, quality-secured drivers. We cannot go along with road safety work in this area. This is about life and health for all who travel on Norwegian roads. In order to improve road safety and the conditions of competition in the industry in order to stop the development of social dumping, we need to have targeted measures. That is why I am pleased that the government and the Council of State have now shown that they are doing important work to improve conditions in a planned and systematic way. Here we must also work against other countries in Europe, because illegal cabotage, as we are familiar with, is a cross-border problem. Much of road transport is subject to common European legislation. Therefore, it is necessary to work towards other European countries, which the government is now in the process of doing. I fully share the intention of the red-green proposal on social dumping measures, but I want to make the decision more concrete. That is why we are promoting a proposal aimed at ensuring a more effective follow-up to infringements of cabotage law through the application of administrative sanctions in the form of simplified submissions. It's about getting your foot down there and then, when it happens, to say it a little bit simplified. This is largely in line with the desire of the red-greens, but in addition we want to have an assessment of the level of the presentations, whether or not we should tighten up on something more. If we get a job started here, we think we can make improvements. I take up proposal No. 9, and otherwise, the Christian People's Party supports the majority recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e4120	The representative Hans Fredrik Gruvan has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e4125	So far, this debate is very similar to the one we had in Stortinget just a week ago. He doesn't care less about that, but it makes a good part of the arguments known. Some of the proposals that the opposition is making today are opening doors in many ways. Many of these assessments are in progress, and the conclusion is not clear, but we're dealing with the same issues. One of these proposals is the proposal for a support scheme for the carriage of goods by road – in the same way that the government has already implemented it. Several EEA legal assessments are required before any such assessments are made. We would make a thorough assessment of the assessments with and without a multiple of the opposition's proposals today. That's what we're about to do, and in other words, it's a work that's going on. For other parts of what this setting actually contains, which is legislation and follow-up related to cabotage, there is also a lot of work going on. Today, through our participation in the Road Alliance, we – with several other countries with similar interests – contribute to being with and moving the EU in the right direction. Both the government and the transport industry have seen to a large extent that the latest position movements in the Commission have been moving in the right direction. We're going to be glad about that, while there are still challenges that remain. I am concerned that we are going to have a code that is really possible to enforce. For the cabotage code it has been challenging. Now I see that one of the proposals that is being addressed today is a proposal to have, for example: digital consignment note – electronic consignment note. The political intention in that is not to disagree. I think that would have made it easier to control than we have today. At the same time, work is now under way at a stage in which the Commission presented a proposal for electronic freight transport information on a voluntary basis in October this year. We see that under the Geneva Convention it is potentially possible to regulate this too to be mandatory in national law. We have to make these assessments before we can conclude. When I say that the opposition in many ways opens doors, it's basically about the fact that there's not much political disagreement about this issue. The legislation we adhere to in this country, we have a common responsibility to actually try to manage. That means that the possibilities that we have under the conventions we've signed up to are an area of action we're going to try to exploit. Whenever there are several of the proposals that the opposition is considering today, there is a distribution work. Back to Railway Goods: Sometimes when you hear the opposition, it sounds like there's a quick fix on it. I would have wished that it was true, and if I had believed that it was true, I would have done it. But I think, unfortunately, that the main challenge we've seen in terms of goods over time, whether one likes it or not, has been that changing governments have had high ambitions and, unfortunately, great difficulties in moving the volumes we've hoped for. It actually tells a story, not about the lack of political will, but about the lack of political ability to thwart the ordinary market mechanisms – those that logistic operators and commodity owners have from day to day. Although the assessment of whether a support scheme of x million is here or there is not finished, I believe there are fundamental structural challenges in this, which both we and Stortinge should have actually spent more time on and no less – simply how to ensure that commodity owners make other assessments, on the basis that it is commercially profitable to do so. I don't think that's until we find the answer to that, that we're closer to the goal. Then, probably, our main challenge remains real up-to-date and priority in the infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e4140	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e4145	It was nice to hear from the Council of State, which at least gives content to support this with electronic shipping letters. And I have to say, it has long been said that the department wants it to be voluntary. This is the first time I hear that there are legal considerations that stand in the way, that there are legal considerations. Is it the case that the Council of State believes that it is only the thing that stands in the way of making electronic consignment note mandatory? I understood it this way at the Council of State that he agreed with the intention of a mandatory consignment note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e4150	I agree with the intention that we need easy, simple and effective methods to check that the cabotage code is being complied with. It may be electronic shipping, it may be what Road Alliance no has been able to influence to a large extent, the European Commission to look at starting earlier with tachographs in cars – there may be a lot of actual answers to that. I'm strictly not so busy with what kind of technical solutions we choose, but of what kind of function it triggers. This means that we are now looking at the space for action that both national and international legislation gives us in this area. Kabotage is allowed. That means that we can't make unnecessary adjustments on our own, in isolation. That's why it's cross-border. We need to take care of that. But I think we're basically some of the rules that we're following, we're going to be able to control as effectively as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e4157	I thank you for the explanation from the Council of State. At least then I'll be careful to follow up along the way and see how progress is being made on the CRM Directive. The council said there wasn't any smart fix, there isn't. But the point is that there has to be, we have to have a quick fix now. That's the whole point. The industry is alarming – the charterers are alarming. And they're right, they've begun to quit people – a lot of people. So my question is: first of all, it would be a pretty easy way to help the industry make a contribution to some kind of environmental aid scheme, a compensation for the road tax, which includes: Denmark has arrived. It could have been achieved by the Council of State through a budget line of a few hundred million, as requested by the industry. It would have been pretty quick to fix, wouldn't it?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e4164	It's fun to use right SV a few hundred million more – almost like a shot from the hip. That's not what I'm doing. One of the reasons for this is that the freight transfer support that we have now provided is assumed to have a peak level which will also be related to EEA legislation. So we're going to figure that out now. We'll come back to Stortinget when we have the answer to that. About compensation for the track charge: As I said last time I was here – and as I explained to myself, so that I was sure I repeated it – the path charge that we now have on goods can have little incentive to move volume, for what has been paid on the Ofot track from other people than in reality LKAB, has largely been paid for the opposite road, from Bane NOR, for uptime. It provides a mechanism between the providers of services and those accepting them. I think it's fundamental health. Then I don't ignore any other suggestions in that further, but we don't have them now.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e4171	The current situation of the freight industry requires action. Then I'd like to say to the Minister of Transport: Forget the opposition for a moment, because it just opens open doors no matter what it may suggest. Forget about changing governments, which was probably the concept of the Minister of Transport used. Forget it all. What are the Transport Minister’s solutions to improve rail freight transport in 2019?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e4176	It is tough priorities, to look at the possibilities of implementing part of the actions in the national transport plan on the freight package, to look at several measures that can effectively contribute to making the time of departure available, so that it strengthens the competitiveness, and not least the further distribution of what we have now said that we are doing and make concrete assessments of whether it is possible to implement a corresponding rail freight transfer system that we have had, and implemented, at sea. The reason why I said that the opposition slammed open doors, and that changing governments are struggling with this, is about the basic analysis that we have to do after all. It's nice to show political power, but it has to work. And unfortunately, all too often with these actions, we do things that don't work. Goods industry doesn't seem to be good at this time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e4183	The Minister of Transport suggests that it is the opposition that has made some rather strange proposals, opens doors and what kind of terms it is now using, especially in the case of such a support scheme, incentive scheme or what to call it. The truth is that this is a proposal that has come from the freight industry. It has come from the large conurbations – it has come from NHO Logistics and Transport, which is the stakeholder organisation for the large conurbations. The NHO is not a propaganda machine for red-green batches. My question is: is the Minister for Transport aware that the transport companies, the major collectors and the NHO Logistics and Transport, together with the environmental movement, have launched such a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e4188	Yes. Then I register that I must have trodden on some sore toes in the Working Party when I said that they opened doors. They really do. The reason for this is that the distribution that I now say the department has done and that will assess, among other things. if it is within the legal level of State aid, basically it is that we have heard this from the business community, from the collectors, long before this proposal came into being. That's because we have done that arrangement, and that's why I have also allowed myself to say that some of these proposals open doors. It's not an attempt to make any very polemics towards the opposition on it – it'll be a relatively sober description of the realities of that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e4196	Now we've talked about there's a broad consensus that goods have to be moved from road to track. I guess that's a reality. To avoid carrying a lot of goods on wheels, measures must be put in place now. Will the Council of State work to speed up action in the freight package in the NTP and give a faster start to construction than that outlined in the railway sector’s action programme?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e4201	The Directorate-General for Railways is preparing its action programme, which is not approved by the Department, in the same way as the Swedish Road Administration's programme is not approved by the Department; it is their plans. This means that you can always make other political priorities, both by the government and by the Stortinge, if you like, in the budget agreements you have. What I think is worth noting from the representative is what he also said in his post, that there is enough money in the railway sector; we can only take money from another place. But I'm going to warn you a little bit about that, because to the right, it looks like there's a sareptac truck there, which is out of print, for a railway project. The projects in which we invest – both maintenance, ERTMS and investments on Norwegian rail – from these funds, help to strengthen the basis for goods on the road. It sometimes sounds like the Centre Party is forgetting, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e4208	No, we won't forget. I also said in my post that we are satisfied with the package of goods that Stortinget has decided. No one complains about it – no one does here, nor the opposition. The short-term measures we are talking about are not launching new planning processes. We had a discussion here when we looked at the regional message and new tasks there. So there are concrete things that certainly you as a state councillor – you don't want to have a quick fix, and you're talking about opening doors, but turning open doors means to me that there's already a solution on the inside, and I feel that the solution is not here – have thoughts about how to do it. We want – and I want – something more concrete in the short term. Can you reveal any of your thoughts in the department?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e4215	The President will only remind the representative that it may be nice to address the Council of State as a Council of State and not as a ‘you’ for the speech to be addressed to the President. Now, State Council Dale is going to have to answer the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e4222	I also used to respond to “you” outside this house – anyway. Looks like the Center Party's got clear maps. The cut in the Centre Party's alternative budget for ERTMS, which is one of the most important things that must also be done to strengthen the competitiveness of the rail freight industry, is a clear indication that the Centre Party is capable of prioritizing, and is able to prioritise the measures that will strengthen the competitiveness of the rail system. That's not what I'm going to do. On the other hand, what I have been thinking is that we should use the resources we have in the rail sector in 2019, so that we can strengthen the overall potential of the railways to be competitive, including on freight transport. That means we have a room for action. It must be applied to concrete maintenance and renewal measures that also strengthen our overall competitiveness, both for passenger and freight transport. We're going to do that with the good budget proposal – with a growth of almost 9 pst., which is in the rail budget for 2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e4229	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e4236	I refer you to proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, which reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for support schemes for the transfer of goods from road to rail and sea. The government is asked to look at the schemes already in place in EU countries. The Government is asked to return to Stortinget with proposals for arrangements for support schemes during 2019. ‘... The intention is quite obvious: we want more goods both on the track and at sea. But I'll particularly comment on it with goods at sea. The Minister referred to the arrangement at sea, but in the next case, where the 2018 budget is to be aged, one can see that close to 76 pst. of heading 72 under the Coastal Works was not used up. It has, to put it mildly, been strange allocations, which many in the market have reacted to, and some who have received funds have withdrawn. It is quite obvious that this has been an area where the government has done a bad job. They've had money available, but they've done a bad job. And I think it's nice that the representative Grøvan calls it a change of pace. In that case, it must be in the wrong direction. I would recommend the Ministry of Transport to contact the operators in the industry. They have many good suggestions on how to use the funds without being perceived as distorting and unfair. It needs to be cleaned up in this context — for the environment, in order to achieve the agreed objectives of the Grand Duchy and for Norway to be a national. The Ministry must come up with new and improved incentives and a system that works for maritime transport. So when it's said that it's going to be slammed in open doors, it's perhaps time that one opens one's own doors, and funds have a hat that one hasn't used up. From the Workers' Party's side, I can give a New Year's promise for 2019: We're going to follow up on what's done, the Workers' Party believes it's time for us to bet on the coast again. The working party believes it is time to do something about the goods situation on the track, which only goes down. It's dramatic, it's critical, and it doesn't seem like this government is in such a hurry.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e4254	From the freight industry it is stated that we are about to run out of the pit before the bridge is built. Two major actors have scaled down and announced cuts – and the impact of the measures we have already adopted will be felt several years before. If we are to succeed in getting a greater share of goods transport from road to rail and sea, there is an urgent need to take action now. Let me also begin by commending the representatives of the SV who have promoted this proposal. The exposure from the hearing indicates that the nail has been hit on the head and that an overall freight and goods transport industry has understood that this is serious. When a total of these have said that it's a goal to move 30 pst. From goods from road to track, we need to build up under policies that allow us to achieve that goal. This is really about pursuing an active and predictable industrial policy. If we, as transport policymakers and social developers, are to be able to facilitate the achievement of our industrial and environmental policy objectives, we must take action whenever necessary. The alternative is to sit in the back and choose not to pick up the glove that's lying there. The good strategy is basically good. There are neither too high a measure nor unrealistic ambitions. But we might as well cancel it if we don't have operators in the freight industry who will be able to benefit from what the Storting decided at the time. This concrete matter we have to deal with today is about finding good solutions to get a nourishment to keep our heads above water for even more powerful instruments are in place. When the Court of Auditors concludes that the objectives of transporting goods by road to sea and by rail have not been achieved, it becomes strange to me that the right-hand side is not involved in securing a majority of the proposals that have been taken up. In this case, neither can the government push the EU and ESA ahead. On the contrary, the government can look to the EU, which has different support schemes that can be assumed to have the same desired effect on the mountain as well. I'm recording that the Council of State is doing a job, and I'm excited about what he's doing. However, the European Court of Justice has given green light to other countries in the same situation. I would also like us to have been able to do this together – when the whole of the freight industry stands together that we have to counteract the dramatic cuts in the amount of goods carried on the track.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e4269	Everyone says they have a goal of increasing freight traffic on the track and on the sea, but now it's going down and not up. A number of representatives, including: from the Christian People's Party, is up and says, "Not right now." The question is, "When then?" When freight traffic on the railway is stopped? Is that when we have to move it over? When the investments are made in even larger car fleets and even larger roads? I live in a state that experiences this, in Hedmark. We have the railway that goes there and that could be expanded. But freight traffic is increasing. I'm really struggling to drive on the roads now. It's such a huge increase. This damages the climate, it makes it dangerous in traffic, and it damages our roads. Goods need long distances, and we have to expand. It has been proposed by SV for a long time, and there must be national efforts to achieve it, not just spot-ups. But until that is done, we need to put in place some arrangements that can give the railway some advantage – more advantage than now. We have to wait until it's commercially profitable,' said the Minister. But it'll never be commercially profitable if you don't price climate emissions and the damage to road transport in a different way from now. We simply have to make sure that you pay for the damage that is being done. This is not happening today. Then the minister says that it's opening doors, and that this is working for the government, to conclude that the proposals don't work. This doesn't last. It would at least be honest if the government and the majority had said that they were throwing these targets on the boat because they don't get it and they don't want it either. Because that's what happens now if you don't go in and try to do something. So just a little question to the Christian People's Party if they can solve it in their proposal: are you going to punish those who are driving these transports, when it comes to cabotage on the road? I would like to take action against it, but I believe the representative of the Christian People's Party also knows something about cabotage, namely that the drivers who drive these cars hardly have any money or responsibility for this happening, but they themselves are in a difficult situation, and that fines there and then – to say it like that – are going to be paid back for the smith.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e4282	It was disappointing with so little support for immediate action. At least the council didn't bring any Christmas gifts to the industry – I thought maybe he could have had it. I saw no suggestions, I heard no openings for solutions that could help the industry in 2019 – just not at all. Remember, when SV's proposal was on the hearing, it was unison's connection to almost all of the proposals from – I think – over 20 instances. This must affect something in the Council of State and in the Department and the political leadership there. Action must be taken to meet the challenges facing the industry now. And just so it's said, when I mentioned 200 million. kr as an aid amount for compensation for the track fee, there was no shot from the hip – the sum was something the industry has asked for. I also want to say that SV has the 200 million. kr inside its alternative budget, so we've been chewing on this for at least six months, I would say. Once again, to increase the competitiveness of a field, one must either punish the competitor in some way, through fees – that is a thought; many countries have done so – or give incentives and support to the field or the player that one wants to gain better competitiveness. That's the usual method, that's how we do it in all of the fields. We're doing it in private cars, how we're going to get private people to change behaviour in cities, for example. – that's how we do it. The same can be done in the case of goods, in which case this aid scheme for goods by rail is absolutely essential. Finally, we also want a simplified presentation, with immediate payment on the road, to be assessed – I think we, the representative Karin Andersen and I, misunderstood each other a little in that matter. The proposals from the Christian People's Party and the Red-Green Party are quite similar, and I choose to see it so that our – the red-green – proposals are better, but we would like to vote in favour of the Christian People's Party's proposals subsidiaryly. A great many of these cases are blamed when they become police cases – we have seen many examples of this. We have also internationally simplified devices with the power to stop car combinations and give fines so that it is fraudulent – and of course that the card that the driver is going to take off does not come from the driver's own pocket, that's the transport company's card.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e4295	When one reads this committee position, and when one hears this debate here today, which on the part of the majority parties is exposed to concrete proposals, I really have to ask the question: I do not understand why the Committee on Transport travels on committee missions. I don't understand why the Transport Committee is meeting with companies and organisations. I don't understand why we have committee hearings and get concrete, good input. The majority doesn't do anything with anything. Not one measure to get more goods by rail is agreed by the majority of the parties to support! The majority say that the opposition opens doors, but there is no door at all! It's completely empty in there. No one at home, no contact. There's a black hole on the inside. No interest in doing anything. For example, proposal No. 2: It has come to pass in committee. We had consultations in the transport committee, and a lot of actors took part, and they suggested that some measures in the freight package should be reversed. One concrete proposal that many people made was that Norsenga timber terminal on Kongsvinger, which is apparently ready to be expanded, should be built earlier than for example. terminal at Rudhögda – even in the same state. I don't know if that's a good idea, but let's at least evaluate it, let's take the recordings seriously and not just say no, no, no, no, no. The NSB freight carrier, CargoNet, is now cutting the number of train commuters from 94 to 74 in 2019. Just on the Sørlandsbanen it is cut from 20 to 11 train commuters, i.e. by freight trains. It's dramatic. There is no point in talking about strategies and measures in the long term. Something has to be done now. So to the proposals of the Christian People's Party: that's in and of itself good, but that's what we think in proposal No. Eight. The difference is that it is much better than the proposals of the Christian People's Party. After all, the Christian People's Party's proposals are so toothless and bloodless: «... ask the government to consider whether it is more appropriate». Of course, it is more appropriate to give people a simplified presentation on the spot! There is nothing to ‘assess’ if it is more appropriate. It's just to do it – give the government marshes! Do it! I think everyone agrees. But both poor tannery and low blood percentage, it's important to do something about it, so we're going to vote for the Christian People's Party proposal as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e4309	The regulatory time has run out, but the President will propose that the meeting continue until the current map has been completed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e4314	If I had turned up an open door, and it was completely dark on the inside, I would assess whether I had turned up the wrong door. I think the real representative Sverre Myrli is about to do that when he doesn't see anything done on the railway. First, he might be able to explain to us why he cut 2 billion. kr in the NTP freight package adopted in Stortinget, and used it at InterCity instead. There is no impossible proposal, for some of the feedback from freight transport is that more track capacity is needed. There was one very clear message in the hearing, and it was: Give us more money. It was all agreed on except for two. One of them was at Ofotbanen. They have a lot of ore and are interested in high track charges. Then it was the lumber transport. They gave us a calculation of what it really meant to them, and there were only a few percent of the costs of the transport of the timber versus the value of the load they brought out. Actually, there are things happening. In these days we replace the power supply on the Kongswingerbahn to give them more power capacity. It is the main freight train in Norway. By day there is a bus for trains between hours. 9 a.m. 14 to do this. There goes the important freight train, so it does. We've improved the maintenance. The regularity of the railway is much better today than it was. When I go on the train in West Town, I have to be there before the train arrives, because otherwise it's gone. Today the train came to the Vestby station from Moss almost early, and that is absolutely amazing. [[Laughter]] I think we might have an assessment here. Now we're dealing with the freight transport, but what we're actually betting on is huge investments in InterCity. If we had the courage to allow the Railways NOR or the Railways to prioritize the means we are using in total on the railways, they might want to give more priority to crossing tracks than they are actually allowed to do, because they're following our program. It's a cross of thought that politicians sometimes have to take over, if it's always lucky that we go into the priorities of this in so much detail. I think more efficient terminals and terminal operations are one of the other important points that freight transport demand. So I ask a little question: a company that is running a deficit year after year, do they have the right roof of what they're doing?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e4327	I have been listening to this debate, and I must say that I am really much more shocked. It's an expression called "While the grass grows, the cow dies," but here you don't wait for the cow to die by itself, here you take the active life of the cow. Like Andersen, I come from a border state. 70 pst. of all land-based goods entering Norway, enter Eastfold – 50 pst. over Svinesund, 20 pst. over the ear. Only 1 pst. of this goods are in progress. 3000 trucks cross the Svinesund every day – and it increases by 5 pst. This year. It goes without saying that when the amount of trucks enters Norway, they will look for jobs in Norway. Thus cabotage occurs. It is increasing more and more, and it undermines the transport of goods by rail elsewhere in the country. I just want to remind the hall of one thing, one single year – and that year is 2021. Then Svinesundsbrua is fully paid down, and the toll station disappears. Do you think there will be less or more cabotage in Norway? Do you think there will be fewer or more trucks over the bridge then? Here something has to be done. The least you can do is compensate for the track fee. It is totally unheard of to impose a charge on what you want more of. Then you have to simplify the transport of goods on both track and sea. Freight transport by sea has 26 different types of charges to deal with. The competitive advantage of the road is too big. It was about turning open the doors here. If you open the doors and there's a trip on the other side, you shouldn't go through those doors – you should do something else.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e4340	One should hear a lot. When there's an attack from the Workers' Party's Swearer Myrli that the majority is doing nothing, it's very special. It was just that party that cut off when it was about goods on the track. When you have an 18-billion-dollar freight package. Following it, it is precisely about building the longer crossing tracks, providing for ERTMS, which the Centre Party cuts in its budgets, which is not so important but is important for the freight industry. When you have SV, which calls for action on the ground – the rescue here is: this majority has prioritised it, it is they who have seen it. You claim to do nothing, and it sounds like on SV – and in part the Workers' Party – as if it's also wildest on the road. It's not. The part that is unprofessional, and the ones that drive illegally, and those who try to drive illegally, is taken – something is done about it. It's this government that's made sure to start checks. It is this government that also makes sure to look at employment contracts and working hours — and do something about it. That's this government, because this wasn't in place before. The most important thing for freight transport is just up-time. That's what it looks like. When this government believes it is wise to look at the certainty of the results in the case of aid schemes. I think everyone is concerned that you spend the money correctly, if you first have to come up with support schemes. It can't be wrong. When you talk about – it was last here, in almost the same debate – that the lorry industry is unprofessional, I would advise against creating such an impression. These are some, but the large, large majority are serious actors. That is why this government is building a lot of roads, because there is still a lot of freight on the road, even if it is going to increase on the track and on the sea. This will be these government parties, along with the Christian People's Party. It's a big bet. So we know that it takes time to build, but as soon as it comes into place, the profitability of the collectors will rise when you can get longer crossing tracks and can build up the railroad. This reduces driving time and increases the level of success in terms of both regularity and punctuality, because that is what is crucial. To hear the opposition say here in the hall that this government doesn't do anything is too daunting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e4353	I'll be brief. There were questions about whether the proposal that the Christian People's Party has promoted was to set up a smith. Kabotage is, of course, a big and complex problem, and we do not believe in any way that we can solve it with a simple proposal, but we think it is an important measure that is just meeting what is one of the challenges today: that it is not being reacted sufficiently there and then when the cabotage infringement occurs. That is why we believe that our proposal is a little more concrete than what the red-greens have proposed. We think this is a better proposal that just helps to create an example for the transporter: that happens once, there is a great chance that it will ensure that it does not happen again, of fear that the transport of the goods will not come forward, and that there will be great delays. Otherwise, there is one more measure that has not been mentioned in this debate, but I was so concerned with it in my intervention. What is one of the main challenges today is that driving goods on the road is very cheap. I know that the Department is working on a proposal on road pricing in the case of heavy transport. We ourselves have made a proposal on road pricing for all transport. It is a very targeted and – I think – good and accurate measure that can help us get a fairer price on that transport, where one measures emissions, where one measures wear, and therefore indirectly strengthens what is our goal in this debate, namely to get more goods across at sea and at sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e4360	Everyone's talking about the weather, but no one's doing anything about it; it's the current situation in the transport sector, as many people see it. While the government operates and assesses, and characterises good proposals such as opening doors – a saying that the current Council of State has taken with it after the previous Minister. The government parties say that they want more goods away from the roads, but despite the fact that they have been talking for years about moving goods, nothing happens, unfortunately – or it's wrong to say, because the opposite happens. But some parties want to do something about it, and it's urgent. Road transport is exposed to unhealthy competition. It may be in line with the government's market ideology, but there are many signs of disease in this sector. Social dumping and illegal cabotage are two of the main reasons for this. Generalisation of collective agreements is an instrument which can help road transport to improve the health of the sector, but which requires compliance. It is also required that authorities put in place means to control and sanction this. That's why we're just suggesting that a breach should lead to the imposition of a fee, to the simple imposition of a fine, or to fines, or to what you call it. This will have a much better effect than the review. So I won't talk much about Posten Bring's contribution to social dumping in the Nordic countries, but fines for breaches of cabotage legislation are also a measure proposed by the minority. As usual with our good suggestions, they are thus voted down by the government parties, with a thriving Christian People's Party as tailhang. The opposition is impatient in this area, and we share that with a whole industry. This is urgent.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e4375	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e4392	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e4401	First of all, thank you to the Committee for a good cooperation in the examination of the proposal. There have been relatively short deadlines, but with a constructive approach from all of them, this has been successful. I'm not going to go through all the big and small changes, but focus on some main points. I expect that the opposition itself will explain its proposals and views. Some updated cost estimates have been made for some projects. The context for adjusting the cost framework may vary slightly, depending on the reason, and of course varies for different projects. But that's explained in more detail in the proposition. Government Parties are committed to limiting the cost growth of the transport sector. This is why several reforms have been implemented precisely to enable us to develop and pave the way faster and more cost-effectively. The establishment of New Roads shows that it is possible to think new things, and that this results. These are reforms that the government parties and the Christian People's Party have adopted against the votes of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV. Efforts to reduce costs are a continuous process, and there is still a potential for improvement. I am therefore pleased that the Council of State and Government are taking this very seriously and have an ongoing assessment of whether the organisation of the sector provides the right incentives for cost-effective development and operation. This will also be a very important topic in the work we will now have on the National Transport Plan in the next few years. The State budget for 2018 has made a redeployment related to the road charge, so that the estimated road charge for passenger train traffic is adapted to the railway reform. Passenger trains are based on state purchases, and therefore the road charge is included in the state compensation and has no real effect on the train company – for the time being. The opposition has a problem with the importance of road taxes for freight transport and, in particular, with reference to the previous debate, this is an interesting topic. In my opinion, a road tax along with the performance scheme will contribute to a better incentive structure. At the same time, it is important that the fee is not too high, so that the improvement measures to be implemented in the national transport plan have time to work and regularity and punctuality have been improved. It is also worth noting that the road tax as of October 2018 amounts to 37 million. kr and that the 2019 forecast is 44 million. kr. Of this amount to 24,5 million ore traffic on the Ofot track, respectively. NOK 30 million. kr. So when we see that CargoNet and other players are now reducing their activity, it's not the road tax that affects profitability, but many decades of delays on the railways. Therefore, it is important that we continue to step up efforts for maintenance and renewal, roll out ERTMS as quickly as possible, and implement the freight package in the national transport plan while at the same time seeing whether there are any short-term measures that may be relevant, such as: a grant scheme to be considered by the Ministry. The last point I want to comment on is the subsidy scheme for more goods from road to sea. This appropriation is proposed to be reduced by 57 million. kr in the proposition. There is a consequence that three of the applicants that received a grant commitment in 2017 did not make use of the scheme. It is a cross-political objective to move more of the goods from road to sea and track, not least in order to reduce road loads and improve road safety. In this respect, it is unfortunate that the scheme is not fully implemented, since in these applications there was a significant transfer of goods from road to sea. At the same time, it shows the need for an evaluation of the scheme and an assessment of its proper functioning and the need to make improvements. Such a review should be carried out in the first part of 2019. In addition to what I have commented on in this article, I just want to refer to the proposition and the setting of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e4422	Let me briefly say a little about the three minority proposals in the vote – and while I'm thinking of it, I will also address those proposals. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, and proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 1 is a continuation of the debate in the previous case and concerns the introduction of a compensation scheme for rail charges paid by freight trains. It is a compensation scheme for those passenger trains that are subject to the public purchase scheme, but as far as we understand, there is therefore no equivalent scheme for freight trains. I state that this is not what we discussed in the previous case about a freight support scheme, an incentive scheme or what they call it. This is a compensation scheme for the charges paid by freight companies to Bane NOR, just to clarify it. Furthermore, I would like briefly to say that the Labour Party in proposal No. 3 proposes 75 million. kr extra to port investments in the 2018 budget. The government has a very poor budget commitment to the Coastal Works. Ports and fairway investments, coastal investment, too little money, and when, in addition, the Coastal Agency budget is cut, correctly enough in other items, we think it is right to signal that the Coastal Plant needs more money. In short, I would like to say a little bit about what is in the Proposition of the Ministry of Transport on the E18 Lysaker – Ramstadsletta. This is briefly briefed in two sentences, i.e. it is a little longer, but the last two sentences read as follows: ‘During the year, expenditure was incurred in excess of 340 million. kr in the project. The expenditure shall be covered within the budget frame of the State Road Administration.’.» I think most people who have read this, perceived that there was enough money to go on – that when it is covered within the budget framework of the State Road Service, the money is found elsewhere. There's nothing else in the proposition. The reality is that there is no money for the E18 expansion now, and that the E18 expansion in Asker and Bærum is stopped. So the proposition was presented on November 23rd. There's nothing about the project stopping, but now we know that it's happening. I must ask the Minister for Transport to clarify: Is it really such that the government has now stopped the E18 development? Finally, I would like to say something about proposal No. Four, from Red. First of all, I would like to say that the committees at Stortinget are an important part of Stortingen's control activities in its field of competence. It is not that the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs alone, or the National Audit Office for the purpose of the case, which is to carry out control activities and which is to ensure that the Government follows up the decision of the Grand Duchy. The Scientific Committees are also important in the control work of the Storting. In Case No. 10, the presentation of the tender round for the Southern Railway, the Stortinget decided that the statement should be sent to the Transport Committee for examination. The Transport Committee will make an attitude which will be discussed in Stortinget. I would say it was a reasonable and wise way to handle that matter, but then it is not right that the Storting should decide that the matter should be sent to the National Audit Board in parallel with the examination in the trade committee. The majority can send the matter to the National Audit Office under the National Audit Act – this can be done by Stortinget, but it is very rare that it has been done. I think I can just come up with a handful of things where the Storting has decided that the Riksrevision will go into specific issues. And I am aware that this has not happened at the same time as dealing with the same issue. With that reason, the Labour Party will vote against proposal No. Four, from Red.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e4440	The representative Sverre Myrli has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e4445	In this setting, the Committee presents amendments to appropriations falling under the programme categories ‘Administrative, aviation, road, rail, coastal and postal and telecommunications’. It also explains the follow-up to a decision on a high-deck charge. As I see it, there is to a large extent a document that shows whether you are within the “black in the record”, as we would say in the shooter’s language. Although it may not be the large sums, it says something about the success of the projects that have been implemented — perhaps especially in the transport and communication sector. There is a broad political consensus that we need to get the most back for the money we invest in large-scale travel projects, just as we want to get the most back for money in other areas where the state spends a lot of resources. In its statement, the majority of the Committee points out that the ongoing road reform and the extent to which this reform will lead to major road projects are implemented at a higher social benefit and at a significantly lower cost. In the vote we are now debating, we see that the cost framework in the project after project cracks, and more money has to be allocated to complete the work. Unfortunately, this shows us that the government's promises for more money do not hold for good. It will, of course, also cover the work on the national transport plan in the next round and how best to organise it in order to create room for new investment. Exceedance of costs means, of course, that important projects in the NTP are being pushed out on time. The representative Myrli mentioned the E18 between Lysaker and Asker, the money that they were supposed to have over the state budget in 2019 and that they do not get. The activity must then be shut down. When this project receives neither money from bombing nor from the state budget, it has implications for progress. It was also expressed by the majority of the Committee that cost reduction is a continuous process, that there is still a potential for improvement, and that this is something the government and the Minister for Transport take most seriously. I'm sure they will. Reference is made to a road reform and it is pointed out that it is possible to rethink in the transport sector. What's new? I quote: ‘The majority will continue to work to streamline planning processes and facilitate the cost-effective implementation of the projects, including assessing whether the organisation provides the right incentives for cost-effective deployment and operation.’ For me, such bureaucratic turns are the result of a vague course, in which one is constantly on the back of adopted plans and objectives. In that case, it is quite special to repeatedly criticise that the opposition is not concerned with reforms. We in the Centre Party are concerned with predictability, implementation and a fair description of how the project is prioritised, and not least financed. It is easy to press the gas when the share of toll financing explodes. This has been combined with the fact that the cost has not fallen, and poor cost control is poorly consistent with the success of ongoing reforms. The increase in the cost of the ten road projects mentioned in this proposition amounts to well over 1.5 billion. kr. Of course, we are also familiar with the conclusions of the National Audit Office on reducing the planning time for large transport projects. It is not necessarily uplifting reading for those who are in charge. In concrete terms, the centre party has noticed that the compensation to the airlines under the heading of the purchase of domestic air routes is lower than budgeted because the number of cancellations has been higher than expected and we note that a high number of cancellations cause significant problems for business and private individuals. Air transport is in large parts of the country to be considered as the most important form of public transport. It is important for the government to take greater action against air carriers that have an agreement with the State over the FOT route system in order to reduce the number of cancellations in the future. I will briefly mention something about the same thing that the representative Myrli had in mind. We support the proposals, and in particular what goes on goods and charges. I also fully agree with the assessment made by the Red proposal, which we will not support.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e4469	Road and road charges from passenger and freight trains are increasingly being included. The fee is paid for passenger trains, but not freight trains. Then it becomes increasingly expensive to transport goods by road, and more and more of the goods are being moved over to the road. It's an unfortunate policy. There has been a debate on goods on the road today. It is red for the proposals to introduce a compensation scheme for road and road charges for freight trains in line with the system currently in place for passenger trains. With regard to the debate on Go-Ahead and the Sørlandsbanen, I would first like to say that we do not get any good answers from the Council of State on the simplest questions – how Go-Ahead could win when they thus score the worst on quality and have the worst plans for getting more passengers. Nor do we get access to the documents that can give the public a good answer to the questions. We note that the matter should be sent to the committee. We think that's wise, and that it's wise to let the committee work on the matter. I will perhaps come back to our proposal once the committee has done its work, so I am not promoting the proposal on the Riksrevision today. But it can be most necessary for spring – we'll see. With regard to the debate on the E18 into Oslo, it is very good, in our view, that the project is now being postponed, but in our view it should also be scrapped. It doesn't solve any of the queue problems in Oslo, because it's not going to be built roads in Oslo, even if you increase the entryways into the city. It understands the Progress Party, the Right Party and the Workers' Party, which have all supported the decisions that all traffic growth into the major cities should be taken collectively. How then solve the contradiction that lies in spending 40 billion. kr on more motorway into Oslo, without traffic growth taking place through passenger car transport? Well, it's solved by what we call Asker Right and Bærum Right Elville logic, and that's the following: a much larger highway should not lead to more cars entering Oslo because you set the toll so high that no one more than today is going to use the highway, i.e. a highway for the rich into Oslo – greet the Progress Party, for most people. Then the question is, why in the world are we going to spend 40 billion dollars on building a road, when no one else is going to use this way? So neither the Labour Party on the Stortinget nor the Right Party nor the Advance Party has any answer to that question. They also have no good response to the commuters, who get a toll shock of NOK 27 500 more this year to commute from Asker to Lysaker because the Progress Party really wants this highway into Oslo – as the other parties in Oslo that run the city, and Red, really disagree. That's why we think it's a good idea to save both the commuters for the toll they're going to get, to save the city air here in town for increased pollution, and not least it's a socio-economic trick to drop the motorway extension into Oslo, which doesn't solve any queue problems, and to spend the money on sensible projects that are good for the transportation into Oslo and through Oslo. We find that now the pause button is pressed in. There should be a permanent stop button on this motorway extension, for which the Progress Party is in favour, which will result in a massive increase in tolls entering the city. Then people should know that the people responsible for the toll shock are the Progress Party, it's the Right Party, and it's the Labour Party on the Stortinget, who is overrun by the majority of Oslo City Council, the majority of our city, to build the highway into Oslo that won't solve any problems for people.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e4484	It was a very good post from the last speaker about the West Corridor. I'm not going to spend a long time on this, because I'm not going to maybe egg up the council for a lot of conversations around this. Let's do it in the next round. But the content of the representative Moxnes was entirely in line with what SV stands for in the West Corridor. As regards proposal No: 2, from the red-green, and this by getting goods from the way over to the sea, I have to say it's strange that that money has not been spent, and I ask the Council to look at the criteria for these allocations. Here there must be something ripping wrong, or there must be something about the information about these support schemes, because there is a great need, there is no doubt about it. So here the department should actually look at the criteria. I would recommend that. Then to Red's suggestion – it was drawn. We have also thought that when the statement is sent to the committee, it was a sensible solution. Then we'll see what the outcome is after a treatment there. It was illogical to support Mrs Red's proposal when this was forwarded to the Committee when this was also being discussed. That's what happened, and that's what happened.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e4493	The setting in this case really speaks for itself. Some comments, however, about the situation of the E18 West Corridor in particular: The representative Sverre Myrli asks if the work has been stopped. The work is definitely not stopped. The work of completing a proposition to the Stortinget is being carried out too fully in the Road Directorate. And to the representative of Moxnes, who thinks that we should cancel what we've decided to build on the West Corridor: I can – fortunately for everyone other than the representative of Moxnes – cancel it. But the thing is, I'm going to do something quite unusual, because I'm going to refer to a comment in the setting that the Workers' Party has written, which is pretty good. It says: ‘These members point to the fact that the Workers’ Party has also previously expressed concerns that large road projects in the national transport plan are at such an early stage that the cost estimate is incorrect. In this way it will not be possible to implement the current national transport plan without increasing the framework for large-scale transport. The increase in the cost of the ten road projects mentioned in this proposition amounts to well over 1.5 billion. krones. These members consider that there is a need for a thorough analysis of the situation.» The analysis is actually very simple: we can't keep it that way. It is not allowed for subservient entities to use the money they have not been given by the government and the Stortinget. Hence, the situation we have when it relates to E18 now, and for which it's done well in this setting, that this has applied to the state 340 million. kr more in costs than one has room for in the allocated budgets. We can't control the transport sector that way. What the representative, Mr Fasterale, really wanted was: what's new? Yes, insofar as one should be in doubt: this is new. This is completely new. The fact that it actually has consequences to spend money that you don't have is perhaps new, but it's also necessary, and I feel that both the Labour Party and the Center Party are actually saying that it's necessary. I'm very happy about that. That's what I could say. I could even, if I had our representative in this house, join the comment from the Workers' Party. It's worth putting a cross in the roof for it, I don't use to admit it so often. But it's about our basic ability to realize what the Storting set itself as a goal in the National Transport Plan, that's to not only use a thousand billion dollars, but actually realize the projects that are there. Then cost management is elemental. It is not allowed to spend money that has not been allowed, and I have informed Stortinget that in this budget proposal, in this new age, one is required to release money in the floor from elsewhere to cover costs that one should not have incurred. That is the situation in 2018. The 2019 situation of the E18 project is that there is no money now for further work. Nevertheless, the work to obtain the proposition continues in the Road Directorate. So I have an ambition that we're still going to have a pace of implementation on the E18 West Corridor, and I'm very happy that the Labour Party indirectly announces support for this. But if we're going to be able to control the transport sector broadly within the framework of the Stortinget, we're going to have to stick enough to the seventh and last finger in the earth and be willing to see that it actually has consequences in concrete projects too when a user doesn't have money. The alternative to it is, of course, that it goes beyond other projects, which are delayed in a row and order. For this reason, what is new, or at least significantly reinforced, is that using money does not have, also leads to clear political expectations from my side.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e4511	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e4516	I stand here with a notice from Nok.no yesterday, and there it says as follows: ‘The work of a new main road system between Lysaker and Asker has been suspended for one to two years, according to the State Road Administration.’ And on the other hand, ‘We don’t get money from the state budget, and now we put down all the activity. It confirms the project director of the Statens vägvesen, Svein Røed, to NRK.’ I understand that the Minister of Transport is working on a new toll proposition – that is this government good at – but that is not what we mean by progress in the E18 development. The Minister of Transport has to travel quite far to understand that there is work on a toll bill in which there is progress, which he refers to, that is, the development of the road that is interesting. So the question is, is it right that the representative of the State Road Service here says, or is it wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e4530	The timeline for further work on the E18 in the West Corridor is, among other things, determined by the speed at which you get the projection of the Storting and the size of the action space. But it's a little strange when, for once, I commend the Labour Party for the analysis of costs and the need to control it more clearly, that the Labour Party answers that they think it's terribly unpleasant when it actually has consequences. The employee party has written a very good comment – so good that I could have found out about writing it myself, I could have allowed myself to say if I had been a little bit more elaborate than I strictly liked to be. What's really decisive is that it's not acceptable to spend money that you don't have, and that's what I've been telling you clearly in this new aging proposition. The government will then come back to the promises, to the extent that it is needed, in the annual budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e4537	I am almost flattered that the Minister of Transport boasts and refers to a remark from the Workers' Party. Then the door was not quite open yet in that case, perhaps at least half open and not already switched on. So it was positive. But I think it's bad for a government council, which has constitutional responsibility for this, to blame the state road service for spending too much money. It is the Minister for Transport who is responsible for the budget chapters and budget lines of the Transport Budget, and it is the Minister for Transport who will follow the decision of the Stortinget. To be honest, the Workers' Party note does not think of E18 in particular when we talk about projects to be included in the National Transport Plan, because this is a project that is planned in the knowledge and the broad, and that has come very far in planning. My question is quite simply – and that is the responsibility of the Minister of Transport: When do the works on the E18 West Corridor start?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e4544	It is quite right that I am responsible for what is happening in the sector, and I am responsible to Stortinget. Now I have given a clear message to the Storting that I am not using money, I am not going to continue with it. That is why I have made it clear in my governance dialogue. So we're going to formalize this further. The speed at which the actual work of E18 is started is determined by the promise proposal from the Storing, and it is determined by the speed at which the proposition comes to the Storing. The Directorate of Roads has indicated that it may be possible to do so in 2019. We've asked them to have a high priority on it. The main challenge, which has led to higher costs in 2018 than it has been covered in the budget, is that one has still had a high priority in resolving land. It's probably still one of the things that's most important to get a quick fix on.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e4553	This is exactly what I took up in my post, this post with getting goods from road to sea, which a total mass agrees to be a good measure. I recommended the Council of State to look at the criteria for allocation to that post. How do the Councils of State view the situation? Does the Council of State think it might be worth looking at the award criteria since we have not used up the item, or has the marketing of the scheme been too bad? Why, believe the Council of State, isn't this post used up when there's such a big need?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e4558	I think I'm in a stranglehold. Here I'm going to try to know, and the answer to that is that we have to make more detailed assessments of how we're going to use the money effectively. I'm assuming that we're actually going to try to do that. That means that we probably have to look at both, in the light of the information we've now received. Point one: Does business know enough about it? Point two: Are there any arrangements for not using it? And point three: what really makes it impossible for business to feel attractive enough either. We have not completed that analysis, but I see the question from the representative as relevant. That's probably one of the things we need to get into further arrangements. This system should also be evaluated, we've already said that, so that's among the things we have to look at in the evaluation that we have alerted us to do of this system.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e4563	A small question about the E18 West Corridor: The representative Myrli has been involved in this, but what is my approach to it, is the cost and not the content, that all the way is to be built, because it is generally known what SV thinks about it. Does the cost, in the light of any overruns that have occurred in the case of property redemption — almost a doubling in the current year’s budget — mean that the overall cost framework is much higher than assumed, or does the costs follow the assumed level of expenditure on the road?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e4568	In this case, there is another question as to whether a person has taken on costs that a non-recovery had in the budget, at an earlier stage than a normal one would have done. That's what I can say with the knowledge I now have. But I'm always looking for a good deal – I'm healthy after all – and that means that it's a goal for me in every project we're going to realize, that we're able to keep the costs down and get the cost down on a lot of important projects. Therefore, our efforts to reform the road sector have also been quite important, precisely to reduce costs and raise societal benefits. There is a presumed room for this project too, but it should go beyond the possibility of realizing an important project not only for Oslo and Akershus, but also for the country. It's, after all, an important European road. I still think that the recent ageing we have now delivered shows that we, from both sides, still have a way to go to have adequate cost management in the sector. There will be a priority task in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e4575	There is also a follow-up to a request decision as part of this setting. The members of the Committee of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party refer to the decision of the Stortinget that the municipalities themselves should be able to determine the amount of the heavy-duty fee and indicate that a broad majority, consisting of all parties other than the Workers' Party, voted in favour of this proposal. That makes sense. In the case of heavy-duty tyres, municipalities must determine the size of the tyres. Spike tyres are really a tool to reduce local air pollution, and among other things. Oslo has wanted to be able to determine the amount of the heavy duty tyre charge itself. It is fully possible to make changes to the regulation that takes account of Storting's wishes, and we therefore do not support the government's conclusion. Why can't the municipalities be allowed to decide for themselves such a fee?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e4582	I have done well in the document that we have sent to Stortinget. I think it would actually make one in one municipality have bought a heavy-duty blanket that had a duration of one year, and it would have run everything a wild in other municipalities. We would have had an internal competition that would have meant that the cities didn't get the tools they needed to handle the mist, and that would have led to a potential shopping from the municipality to the municipality. There are many good reasons not to implement this, so I am glad that Stortinget seems to be pleased with the response to the request decision we have now delivered.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e4587	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e4594	The fact that things change from a government budget to the end of the year is quite natural, and that, of course, the opposition understands. But there are things we have to stick to observation and prevent complications from. One such case is a reduced payment due to cancellations on the FOT routes. The requirement of the tender is, of course, to be complied with, and any malus is also to be issued, so our concern here is to ask what the government that purchases is contributing to reduce the number of cancellations by the operator. Similarly, I wonder if the requirement of regularity might be something high. These flights are operated in weather-resilient areas. In view of the fact that the FOT routes among people are considered collective travel, it is important for us to know that the government is putting in the necessary measures to keep the number of cancellations as low as possible. The performance of the airlines is now so poor that when you rock something, you risk the whole system being raked. This concerns us – perhaps especially given that the FOT routes from 2020 are unfortunately going to the county municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e4602	Item 72, which deals with subsidies for the transfer of goods from road to sea, was 75,2 million. kr in the balanced budget in 2018 and is proposed to increase in the state budget for 2019. Initially, there was a very small increase, not least all the time the Riksrevision has given the government strong criticism of not having followed up the decided goal of the Storting, that more goods should pass from road to road. So this item applies to goods from road to sea. On the part of the Workers' Party, we believe that the post must be further strengthened in order to achieve the objectives of the Storting, in order to have a positive climate and environmental impact and better accessibility on our roads. The Labour Party therefore proposed to strengthen this item by 22.6 million in its alternative budget. NOK so that the sum of the item would be 100 million. kr. The working party is concerned about this problem and believes that the goods do not move themselves from road to sea. It needs instruments to change the flows of goods, and then it also needs economic instruments. At all our meetings with the actors in this industry, whether the Coastal, the Godsallian or the Norwegian ports, they report common interest in changing the freight flows, but there must be incentives and instruments to do so. The working party was very surprised when Prop. 17 S came and we could see that this aging had not strengthened the post office but weakened it. Where initially it was proposed 75.2 million. NOK, the allowance has now been reduced by 57 million. kr. The strong criticism of the National Audit Office has not led the government to strengthen its efforts to get goods from sea to sea. When 75 pst. by the appropriations are shaved away, one cannot claim that the government cares about the critical observation of the Riksrevision. On the part of the Workers' Party, we have pointed out that this government does not bet on the coast when it downgrades coastal measures such as: the development of fishing ports, which is an infrastructure necessary to enable the fishing industry to exploit its potential. On the contrary, the government appears to be an opponent of measures across the coast. It is almost such that it can be concluded that this government is not using the whole country — and it appears to have a fear of water.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e4617	Finally, we also find it regrettable that the subsidy scheme for goods from road to sea has not been fully applied, as it should. The reason for this is described in the proposition, namely that three of the applicants who have received an undertaking have not availed themselves of the opportunity and the undertaking they received. That is regrettable, and I think the most important thing in this case is to make sure that we get a good evaluation of the scheme to see if it works as intended, and whether the instrument is really good enough. I want us to continue that arrangement, but it probably has to be more accurate than it is now. So a few other comments. To the representative Fasteraune: it turns out it was written in some bureaucratic terms, that remark, and it almost had to be taken over, because it was signed that had written it. But I think it is important to point out that working with cost-reduction measures in the transport sector is, in fact, continuous processes. There's something we have to work with every day, something we have to make sure that we're concrete on the part of the government, just to make sure that we can have a chance to implement the projects that are in the national transport plan. That means we have to think about something new. And that's exactly what we've done. We have implemented reforms in the transport sector that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV have consistently voted against, including. New roads, which show that it is possible to save significantly on thinking new, doing things in other ways, making sure to build more efficient and smarter. A little bit to it with the road tax on the railway, which is given a lot of weight when we discuss goods from road to track: Now it is such that the road tax as of October 2018 was estimated at approx. 37 million. SEK, of which 24,5 million. For the ore transport on Ofotbanen. The forecast for 2019 is 44 million. kr, of which approx. Thirty million. kr applies to ore traffic on the Ofot track. It doesn't matter, in my opinion, to make this the crucial element – or a particularly important element – that makes us have no more goods on the track than what we have today. There are completely other things that make the statement, and that we have to work with in the future. Therefore, it is important that we have focused more on maintenance and renewal than ever before – the effort has more than doubled compared to the previous government. There are just such measures that will improve regularity, increase punctuality on the railway, which will give us an impact. Then we're quite clear that we also have to evaluate a grant scheme in line with what we have at sea. It's in the department, and I hope the department will come back to us soon about how they might set up such a system.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e4630	I just want to present a small challenge to the Council of State at the end of the debate. The Council of State said in its comments on the previous case, which in part has also been included in this case, that the responsibility has now been shared between the Department and the Directorate of Railways. I hope the council didn't mean it. It is only the Council of States that is accountable to Stortinget. In this context, I think that a good solution was found by the fact that the statement that was made earlier today was sent to the Committee, and that Red drew up its proposal. It would seem that we asked the National Audit Office to look at a matter that Stortinget has to deal with. So I think that has fallen well in place. But the key to getting a good process, by the fact that the Trade Union Committee is now going in and looking closely at that matter, is that they have access to the necessary documents. I got a feeling earlier today that the Council of State was aware that there were some documents the Stortinget could not get because they were not public. I hope he didn't mean it. I hope he can confirm that he did not mean it. For the Scientific Committee, the documentation underlying the many questions raised will now be needed. And it's not just the Council's documents, it's also about the underlying agencies' documents. That is stated in Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure. Even if those documents were to contain business secrets or other things that make them non-public, it is not that the Storting cannot get them, the Storting has the opposite claim to get them. It is a separate paragraph, Section 29, that describes how a committee that does not receive public documents – or limited documents, for that matter – should handle those documents. But it's a prerequisite to be able to get involved in the case that they get them. On the basis of what the State Council said earlier – in the previous case, correctly – I hope he can confirm that he will now facilitate the professional committee to receive all the information necessary to fully address the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e4637	It's sometimes risky to act without a script. When I said ‘the division of responsibility’ earlier today, I meant ‘the division of labour’, and then I was given the opportunity to rectify it. I hope the representative Dag Terje Andersen will settle down on that. In my article earlier today, I also said that my starting point now is that the information I have given to Stortinget today is the information I've been on for now. So if the outcome today is that the committee is well prepared to deal with the matter, I assume that they are asking for the documents they believe it is the basis for, and of course we will make our judgements on transparency in line with the Rules of Procedure of the Storting, and the ones we also called for under the public law for one thing to have transparency, but also to hold back competitive information to the extent that it is necessary, and to the extent that the Storing is not sufficiently capable of doing so. It is to anticipate the course of events. I assume that my responsibility is to contribute to the Storting being able to make their assessments as best as possible, and will naturally follow it up in the further work as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e4646	I have two points at the end here. I agree with the chairman of the committee that what is paid for in the train charges from freight trains is not all the world. However, it is only one of many measures that freight trains should also be compensated for the charges, as passenger trains receive, and it is stated in the proposal that, as part of the railway reform, rail charges should be increased. But I also have to say that I think the majority takes a little too easily on the system that is now in place. Now the trains pay the road tax to Bane NOR. Then Bane NOR gets increased revenues. Then the government cuts similarly, crown for crown, in the allocations to Bane NOR. And who paid those fees? Yes, the train companies have done so, and then they get the same money back from the state to the train companies. It's a dance of money – it's quite ingenious to suggest such a system, they should. But it does not add a single fresh crown to the railway sector. It's just switching money between the different budget chapters. On the other hand, I would say, it drains the railway sector for administrative resources with all that internal billing and the dance of money, transfers and checking to each other. In any case, the passenger trains shall be compensated. It is in themselves good when they pay it, but it should also be done for freight trains. That's our point. So I would like to say in the end that I think maybe the representative Orten also devalues a little bit of the dramatic cut in the budget line for subsidies for the transfer of goods from the road to the sea. If I'm not mistaken, this is a scheme that was introduced in 2017, and that's because the Stortinget wants to transfer more goods from road to sea – and so far to the railway, as we discussed in the previous case. I perceive that there is a broad political consensus on such a scheme, and the scheme and the post have for 2018 had a budget of 75 million. kr. Now the majority will cut it in the freshly aged by 57 million. NOK – 57 out of 75; so the entire budget item is cut by 75 pst. There is no small grip that is being done, and that money is now being withdrawn and used for other things. This is a budget line that ‘can be transferred’, so that at least the majority could have transferred that money until 2019, so that the industry would have had the money to strengthen that mechanism in 2019, because offensive measures are needed to get more goods across from the road to the sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e4657	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e4669	The size is then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e4928	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Espen Barth Eide on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 2 and 3, from Ole André Myhrvold on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 4 and 5, from Ole André Myhrvold on behalf of the Centre Party, proposal No 6, by Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Greens proposal No 7, from Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that all contracts relating to petroleum expansions to be dealt with in the Storting are awaited before they are concluded by the Storting.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e4963	There is a vote on proposal No. 6, by the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the following for development projects on Norwegian continental shelf: The Storting agrees that the Ministry of Oil and Energy in 2018 can approve projects on Norwegian continental shelf under the following conditions: [[plans for deployment/installation and operation]] 1st@item: inlistbox The project must not have any principal or social implications. 2nd@item: inlistbox The maximum total investment per project amounts to 7 billion. krones. 3rd@item: inlistbox Each project must demonstrate acceptable socio-economic viability and be reasonably robust against changes in the price evolution of oil and natural gas.» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e4991	There is a vote on proposal No. Four from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to carry out an evaluation of the scheme that is consistent with the assumption given in 2007 and that it must also include an assessment of the impact of the system of national salmon river and salmon fjords on seafood production, the aquaculture industry and other economic activities.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e5006	There is a vote on proposal No. Five from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the government to distribute more of the funds on top. 1420 in heading 85 directly to centres based on authorisations, in order to allocate resources from project writing and application processing to direct activity as neutral knowledge intermediaries, in line with the brand name ‘Norway National Parks’.» [[Natural information centres]] Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e5023	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. Other: ‘The government is asked to consider introducing a grant scheme to cover the costs of shipments of waste following voluntary clearing operations. The system must be seen in conjunction with the system already in place in relation to marine littering and the spread of microplastics. The government is asked to present a case on this subject in the context of the revised National Budget for 2019.» Sales No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for 1 million. crowns of a pre-project of the nature information centre of the Trillemarka-Rollag mountain.» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e5048	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to return to the Stortinget in the revised National Budget 2019 with a plan to help the country realize a national nature information centre for the coniferous forest reserve, linked to the Trillemarka-Rollag mountain in Eggedal.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e5065	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e6161	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e6587	It's going to go first over A IX and XIV. The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e6601	It shall be weighed over A VIII and XI. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e6615	It shall be counted over A II to VII, X, XII and XIII.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e8193	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e8632	It shall be weighed first over B III and IV. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e8646	It shall be counted against B II and V to XII.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e8700	It is then voted over C II-VII. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e8714	That's right over C.I.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e10286	A total of 17 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Eirik Sivertsen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party proposal No 4, from Eirik Sivertsen on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 5 and 6, by Willfred Nordlund on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 7–13 and 16–17, from Willfred Nordlund on behalf of the Centerpartiet the proposals No 14 and 15, from Karin Andersen on behalf of SV There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 14 and 15, of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose a legislative amendment to ensure that county councils are given full authority over the school structure in secondary school.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to increase the subsidies on decentralised higher education in the higher education and university sectors and to establish its own financial transfers to the county municipalities for the purpose.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e10328	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 8–10 and 16–17, from the Centre Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to assess the impact on children, young people and adults with special training needs of any transfer of Statped’s tasks to the county councils and to present them to the Stortinge in an appropriate manner.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit proposals for the county to take over the county council’s tasks related to breeding permits for predators.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals for the transfer of powers to grant concession to small hydroelectric power stations and wind power to county municipalities.’ [[1 to 10 MW]] [[more than 1 MW/five turbines]] Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to draw up a plan for the transfer of the following tasks and powers to the regionally elected level: 1st@item: inlistbox Responsibility for the State Child Protection through Bufetat 2nd@item: inlistbox Responsibility for family protection 3rd@item: inlistbox Responsibility for the District Psychiatric Clinics - DPS 4th@item: inlistbox Innovation Region Apparatus Norway 5th@item: inlistbox Parts of Research Council programmes 6th@item: inlistbox Festival support from the Culture Council 7th@item: inlistbox Cultural Memory Protection’» Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to examine a plan for transferring all the tasks of the State which require political judgement to the County, with the exception of soil protection, so that the County becomes a purely supervisory, supervisory and judicial body.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e10379	There is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the government to determine the conditions under which the county may, at the request of the municipalities, consider entering as a regulatory plan authority in major county infrastructure measures, the legislative changes and limitations that should be made, and submit this to the Stortinge for final decision in an appropriate manner.’;» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e10396	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 11-13, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to follow up the expert committee’s recommendation and to re-assess the organisation of hospitals with a view to transferring responsibilities for hospitals and DPS to the new counties.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a plan for at least 98 pst. households will receive a gigabit offer by 2025 and for how the whole country will receive a gigabit offer by 2027.» Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a distribution model to meet the minimum need to finance the purchase of FOT routes, and to present this to the Stortinget before the next call for tenders.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e10425	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5 and 6 from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to determine which other tasks can naturally be transferred to the District Centre in order to enhance the competence of community development and value creation in the districts.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking for further development of the role of Nkom to include national advice in order to achieve the objective of sustainable competition and stimulate business development and innovation.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e10448	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to carry out further transfers of tasks from the State to the municipalities in the climate and environmental fields, with the exception of responsibility for pollution, control, supervision and complaint.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e10462	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the government to give guidance to the counties in respect of motor travel in the outland.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e10476	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the county authorities to provide regional climate coordination responsibilities for the follow-up of the Climate Act.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e10492	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government in the review of patient travel legislation to assess whether any of the responsibilities for patient transport can be entrusted to the new counties.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e10533	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e11500	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to increase the rates of living in reception within the framework of the allocation as soon as possible.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e11936	An alternative is to vote between the option cap and the option cap. 490 item 70 and proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «On top. 490 entry 70 is added to the keyword ‘can be transmitted’.’» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e11954	All other parts of the adjustment's recommendation shall be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e11968	During the debate, Mr Andersen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e12312	It shall be counted against II. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e12326	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to increase the grant for 2018 to the Holocaust Centre and the Anti-racist Centre respectively by 250000 kroner.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e12342	It's going to wrestle over you. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e12356	Case No. 10 has been completed. No. No. of vote. 11
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e12363	A total of nine proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-8, from Sverre Myrli on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 9, by Hans Fredrik Grövan on behalf of the Christian People's Party Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that infringements of the rules on minimum remuneration under the Public Service Regulation and breach of the information/coating obligation shall automatically result in the imposition of charges.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to make proposals as soon as possible on which of the measures contained in the freight package in the national transport plan 2018-2029 can be accelerated and given faster start-ups than outlined in the railway sector’s action programme.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that freight trains are prioritised on the network at night where there are minor or negligible changes in the route for passenger trains. The government is asked to review the railway regulations and their practice in addition to existing timetables and to explain to the Storting what changes are being made when the work is completed. ‘... Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose an environmental aid scheme for the transfer of goods from road to road in dialogue with industry actors. The aid scheme shall be at the level of the industry involved in the government and must take effect as from 2019.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for support schemes for the transfer of goods from road to rail and sea. The government is asked to look at the schemes already in place in EU countries. The Government is asked to return to Stortinget with proposals for arrangements for support schemes during 2019. ‘... Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that new electronic consignment notes as foreseen by the CRM Directive are made mandatory.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to investigate and propose a transport register for all international freight traffic, combined transport and cabotage journeys in Norway.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals for necessary regulatory changes to ensure that fines for infringements of the cabotage code can be imposed when the breach is discovered.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up. The Committee had decided to do the following: decision: Document 8:22 S [[2018–2019]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e12424	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to assess whether it is more appropriate to use administrative sanctions in the form of simplified proposals to ensure a more effective follow-up to infringements of cabotage legislation, including the level of submissions and the possibility to request them on site.’ The other parties have notified aid or subsidiary aid to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e12440	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Sverre Myrli on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Sverre Myrli on behalf of the Workers' Party There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2018 makes the following changes: Cape. Post Subject matter Krona Expenditure 1300 Ministry of Transport 70 Offered to international organisations, reduced by 5,800,000 from NOK 45 200000 to NOK 39 400000 1310 Air transport services 70 Purchases of domestic routes, may be transferred, reduced by: 40,000,000 from NOK 729 100000 to NOK 689 100000 1320 State Road Service 23 Operation and maintenance of national roads, road and rail traffic control, etc., can be carried over, can be used under item 29, item 30, item 31 and item 72, are increased by: 5,200,000 from NOK 11 788 344,000 to NOK 11 793 544 000 36 E16 above File Mountain, can be transferred, increased by 130 000 000 from NOK 119 100000 to NOK 249 100000 72 Purchases of road transport services, transferable, can be used under entry 23 and entry 30, are reduced by: 14 200000 from NOK 1,241 300000 to NOK 1,227 100000 1352 Railway Directorate 70 Passenger transport by train, can be transferred, is increased by: 450,000,000 from NOK 344 100000 to NOK 3934 100000 71 Purchases of infrastructure services — operation and maintenance, transferable, can be used under item 72, item 73 and item 74, are reduced by: 450,000,000 from NOK 8 225,456 000 to NOK 7 775,456 000 1360 Coastal works 30 New installations and major maintenance, can be transferred, increased by: from NOK 415 400000 to NOK 490 400000 75,000,000 72 Refuse to transfer goods from road to sea, can be transferred, reduced by 57,000,000 from NOK 75 200000 to NOK 18 200000 1370 Mail services 70 Purchases of mail and banking services are increased by 15 400000 from NOK 603 700000 to NOK 619 100000 Income 4320 State Road Service 2 Various fees, will be increased by 100000 000 from NOK 437 653 000 to NOK 537 653 000 5577 Sectoral charges under the Ministry of Transport 74 Sectoral fees Coastal works, are increased by 9,470,000 from NOK 767 600 000 to NOK 777 070 000 75 Sectoral charges National authority for communication is increased by: 3,290,000 from NOK 209,808,000 to NOK 213,098,000 ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e12950	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government requests the introduction of a compensation scheme for rail/road charges for freight trains in line with the compensation scheme for passenger trains covered by the State purchase scheme.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for unused funding of 57 million. crowns on cap. Item 1360 is transferred to other actions that applied for allocation in 2018 but that did not receive it.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e13476	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e13610	The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-18.ana.ud279e13651	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
