ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e105	Honourable co-representatives! Former coroner Johan Christen Løken died on December 18th, 73 years old. With his passing, the Right has lost a marked profile and a committed employee for more than 50 years, with almost uninterrupted effort from being elected chairman of the Elverum Young Right in 1963 and until he passed away before Christmas. Johan C. Løken became early active and took over as a farmer at Hvarstad farm in Heradsbygg in Elverum in 1964, the year he took the exam artium. In the following years he took the agricultural line and the forestry line at Jønsberg Agricultural School and became a forest candidate from Norway's agricultural high school in 1969. There were many who got their eyes up early on on the capacity of the young farmer from Heradsbyggang. In the 1970s he became involved in consular talks of as different organisations as the Norwegian Federation of Industries, the Norwegian School of Agricultural Higher Education, the Norwegian Research Council of Agricultural Sciences and the Norwegian Shipowners' Association. The offices in and for the Right were many: Young Right Central Board, Elverum Municipal Board, Hedmark County, Hedmark Right, member of the Right Central Board and of the Programme Committee. His foremost public mission was as Minister of Agriculture in Kåre Willoch's 1981–1983 government. He was elected to represent Hedmark for three periods from 1981 to 1993, and also met as an alternate from 1977 to 1981. In Stortinget he was constantly a member of the Financial Committee, with the exception of a few months in the Judicial Committee in 1983. He was also a member of the Norwegian Parliamentary Delegation to EFTA, a delegate to the UN General Assembly and a member of the Norwegian Parliamentary Delegation to the Nordic Council. Before Løken was elected to Stortinget, he was Chairman of the District Development Fund's Board. Later, he was the director of the Norwegian Horse Centre Foundation, of the insurance company Skogbrand, of the Swedish Defence Research Institute and of the Norwegian Forest Company, to mention only a few of his many board members. In addition, he managed a public body to investigate the position and functions of the land change right. He got engaged early in the climate debate. As early as the 1988-1989 session, he, together with Kaci Kullmann Five, presented representatives’ proposals on the prevention of climate change through the use of fossil resources through the biological recycling of carbon dioxide. His work to provide Norwegian forest with a bigger place in the Norwegian climate debate has set a trail. Co-representatives describe the onion as an emergence of knowledge of economics, taxation and agriculture. He continued to exploit his knowledge and ideas, to the delight and benefit of old and new colleagues even for many years after he stepped out of the Storting. In recent years he was very concerned about predatory issues, not least in the light of landownership rights and food production, and was actively involved in the debate on the latter. We light peace over the memory of Johan C. Løken.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e139	A number of permit applications are available: from the representative Petter Eide on leave from 9 April to 12 April to take part in the election observation of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly at the presidential elections in Azerbaijan from the representatives of Grunde Almeland, Jorodd Asphjell, Heidi Greni, Ruth Grung, Martin Kolberg, Stein Erik Lauvås, Solfrid Lerbreck, Ingarill Olsen and Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen on leave from 8 April to 11 April – all to attend Nordic Council meetings on Iceland from the representative of Anette Trettebergstuen on parental leave for the period from 10 April to 15 June Those applications are proposed to be examined without delay and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e190	From the first alternate of the Finnmark County, Steinar Karlstrøm, there is an application for a waiver to meet in Stortinget under the authority of the representative Ingarill Olsen, for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave as follows: For the Province of Buskerud: Anne Helene Sandum 10-11. April For Finnmark County: Ragnhild Helene Kaski 10-11. April For Hedmark County: Tone Merete Sønsterud 10 April–15. June For the province of Hordaland: Leif Audun Sande 10-11. April For Oslo: Olivia Corso Salles 10–12. ==References====External links== April For the Rogaland province: Eirik Faret Sakariassen 10–11. April For Telemark County: Olav Seltveit Urbø 10-11. April For the South-Trundellag counties: Geir Arild Espnes 10–11. ==References====External links== April For Eastfold County: Arve Sigmundstad 10-11. April
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e266	The representative, Lars Haltbrecken, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e271	On behalf of Tore Storehaug, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Arne Nävra and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a new supplementary national park plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e276	The representative, Petter Eide, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e282	On behalf of Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Nicholas Wilkinson, Audun Lysbakken, Freddy André Øvstegård and myself, I would like to make proposals to prevent the undermining of the European Court of Human Rights in the negotiations on the Copenhagen Declaration. Further negotiations on this matter are imminent. There is therefore a need for a very rapid treatment in Stortinget, so I ask that the proposal be dealt with urgently in accordance with Section 39(c) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e289	The representative, Freddy André Øvstegård, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e294	On behalf of the representatives Solfrid Lerbreck, Nicholas Wilkinson and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on the body press and the advertising industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e299	The representative, Anette Trettebergstuen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e304	On behalf of the representatives of Kari Henriksen, Trond Giske, Arild Grande, Hadia Tajik, Anniken Huitfeldt, Ruth Grung and myself, I will present a proposal for a representative on increasing equality in Norwegian film and television drama production.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e309	The representative of Ms Olug V. Bollestad will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e314	On behalf of the representatives of Ingvild Kjerkol, Nicholas Wilkinson and myself, I would like to present a proposal for a representative on changes to the Tobacco Damage Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e319	The representative, Ingrid Heggø, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e324	On behalf of the representatives of Sigbjørn Gülsvik, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on the neutral conversion of the financial tax where the increased employer's tax will be removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e329	The representative, Cecilie Myrseth, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e334	On behalf of the representatives of Oluk V. Bollestad, Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes, Sandra Borch, Martin Henriksen, Ingvild Kjerkol, Lene Vågslid and myself, I would like to submit a proposal to the Legal Genetics Centre at UiT Norway's Arctic University to carry out DNA and trace analyses for use in criminal justice, as a complement to the Federal Institute of Medicine.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e340	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e345	From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 4 April 2018: ‘Change in the composition of the Government and change among the State Secretaries State Council was held at Oslo Castle on 4 April 2018 at 2.30 p.m. 1530 under the direction of His Majesty the King. The following decision was adopted: Partner and Senior Advisor Tor Mikkel Vara is appointed to the Council of State and takes over from the Ministry of Justice and Defence. State Secretary Thor Kleppen Sättem is dismissed as Secretary of State for Per Sandberg and is re-appointed State Secretary for Tor Mikkel Vara of the Ministry of Justice and Defence. State Secretary Torkil Åmland is dismissed as Secretary of State for Per Sandberg and is re-appointed State Secretary for Tor Mikkel Vara of the Ministry of Justice and Defence. State Secretary Knut Morten Johansen is dismissed as Secretary of State for Per Sandberg and is re-appointed State Secretary for Tor Mikkel Vara of the Ministry of Justice and Defence. State Secretary Sveinung Rotevatn is dismissed as Secretary of State for Per Sandberg and is re-appointed State Secretary for Tor Mikkel Vara of the Ministry of Justice and Defence. State Secretary Toril Charlotte Ulleberg Reynolds is dismissed as Secretary of State for Per Sandberg and is re-appointed Secretary of State for the Government of Tor Mikkel Vara in the Ministry of Justice and Defence. All the amendments made above shall take effect on 4 April 2018 at the latest. 1600.’» The referenced letter shall be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e373	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Svein Harberg. – Other proposals are not available, and Svein Harberg is unanimously elected president of today’s meeting. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e403	On behalf of the Presidency, I would like to recommend the unanimous vote on the appointment of the new Director of the Administration of Storting. Since October 2017, the Presidency has worked extensively to prepare and implement the recruitment process. The position as director of Stortinget's administration is very demanding, which is also updated with the situation of the construction project P26. The Presidency is pleased that a qualified candidate with broad and versatile top management experience has been found in several major businesses both in the private and public sectors. She has appeared in interviews with a united presidency as a dedicated and competent leader with energy and good performance. It is the Presidency's view that Andreassen has a very good understanding of the role and depth of political decision-making processes and the importance of facilitating parliamentary work. Andreassen is well placed to implement changes and changes, so that services and processes in the Storting are modern, safe and efficient. As with the addition of the Director in 2011, it is proposed that the Presidency be empowered to enter into an agreement on remuneration and to lay down detailed conditions of employment. The Presidency assumes that the nominated applicant will be given a salary position at the level of the former Director. In the past, the Executive Director of the Stortinge was paid at the level of the Board of Government, taking into account the formal position of the Stortinge in relation to the government. In recent years, it has been felt that the Director's salary should in any case be limited upwards to that of the President-in-Office. Marianne Andreassen, in an interview with the presidency, confirmed the possibility of early accession to the post, which the Presidency considers important in today's situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e416	Differences in power and wealth are increasing in Norway, and especially at the paycheck among leaders. Only in health companies, 22 out of 28 executive directors now serve more than the Prime Minister in Norway. Therefore, Stortinget should take clear responsibility – not least for ourselves. We need to figure out how much people are going to earn. SV is still against increased salaries for large-scale representatives, and now we are promoting proposals to set an upper framework for how high the salary Presidency can negotiate away. That limit should have been set a very long time ago. We are pleased that the Grand President, Tone Wilhelmsen Trøen, said in her contribution that she understands that it has been desired in Stortinget that no one should earn more than the Grand President. Nor should it be difficult to adopt it clearly now, so we have set that framework once and for all. That's why I'm addressing SV's proposal, which reads: ‘The Presidency of the Grand Duchy shall be authorised to conclude a salary agreement, which shall not exceed the President’s remuneration, and shall lay down detailed conditions of employment.’;» I would also like to inform you that SV is going to vote against the proposal for Red.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e426	The representative Nicholas Wilkinson has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e431	Red will vote for the new director and hope for a good cooperation with the new director when she is in place. Following the building scandal earlier this year, Red voted against empowering the Presidentship of the Stortinge to settle the question of salary in the formation of the Director in February. Our rationale then was a greatly reduced confidence in the presidency. Now we've moved on, but the question of wage fixing is at the same time of a more principleal nature. Red jobs for more transparency and less differences. We believe that as much as possible should be done behind closed doors in the presidency. In the public sector, top management wages are shooting in the weather. Several hundred heads in the state have higher wages than state councils, who run the entire department with all the responsibilities it entails. At the same time, it was as late as the real wage reduction for ordinary employees in Norway in 2016. Industrial workers, civil servants, employees in the municipal sector and in the state got less to walk with, while managers left. The current practice is that the Stortinget, after being suspended by the Stortingen Wage Commission, adopts the remuneration of grossing-up representatives, government members and prime minister. The size already regulates the remuneration of the Supreme Justice and Supreme Court judges. Therefore, today's Red proposal is that the Stortinget begs the Presidency to return to the Stortinget with proposals for the establishment of remuneration for the Director of the Stortinget. Although we are positive that the Stortinget sets some framework in this case, we are voting against the SV's proposal, because it in practice opens up a salary increase for the grossing-up director from today's level. So that doesn't solve the problems we're pointing at. On the other hand, the Stortinget should determine the salary; it should not be determined behind closed doors in the presidency. That is why we are promoting proposals on this in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e442	Then the representative Björn Moxnes mentioned the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e460	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e469	When people in Norway are asked to tell about when they have their best moments, many experiences in nature are often mentioned, along with the family. What this matter is essentially about is ensuring people access to natural experiences near where they live, even in the future. Norwegian nature can work endlessly. It always has. That's why we've also done a rough job of it, and that's why it's also important to take care of a lot of what's left. Our predecessors at Stortinget shall have praise for having been good at protecting nature high to mountains. We have a lot of national parks we can be proud of, but nature near where we live, we haven't taken the same care of it. Nature plays a major role in people’s access to and use of nature in everyday life. Most of the Norwegian cities and agglomerations have beautiful natural areas that are used by the outdoor population and that are important to take care of. Easy access to free nature provides opportunities for health, improved quality of life, great natural experiences and, above all, more knowledge of nature. Outdoor activities are the most common form of physical activity in Norway. 61 pst. by the Nordics, state that physical activity in nature and the surrounding environment is the kind of activity they can imagine more of in the future. Self-organised physical activity such as open-air life often reaches groups where organised sport does not reach, and activity is more evenly distributed among the population. The pressure on nature today is great. In recent years there have been major conflicts related to urban development issues such as: Arendal, Tromsø, Trondheim and others. Therefore, we believe it is necessary to strengthen the protection of the main open-air and natural areas – both on a large scale, such as urban and urban areas, and on a small scale in residential areas and immediate proximity to schools and kindergartens. In 2009, Stortinget adopted the Marka Act for Oslomarka. The law provides important protection for the natural areas around the capital, which are used by about 1 million people. We believe that such a law should not be reserved for people in and around the Oslo area, and the people of other cities should also benefit from the security provided by such a law for their natural and outdoor areas. It's a shame there won't be a majority for such a proposal today, but it doesn't mean that the race is over. Resistance to national laws to preserve nature may remind you a little of the resistance to the establishment of national parks in its time. We think that this is something we're going to be able to get through for in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e486	Tone Wilhelmsen Troeen had reintroduced the president's office here.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e491	The President assumes that the representative will make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e496	That's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e501	Then the representative Lars Haltbrecken addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e506	Thank you to the President-in-Office for a good report. The working party is mainly in conjunction with the SV and the Greens in the Greens on this matter. In 2009, the Red-Green Government presented the proposal to legislate Oslomarka. For everyone with a love for the field around the capital, there were many years of battle crowned with victory. It secured the mark around our capital, and at the same time prevented the future conflicts, for now everyone knows what they have to deal with. The Labour Party believes that the good experience we have with Oslomarka means that we should be able to get similar markers around our other municipalities. In several of the municipalities, we see that there are conflicts around the mark line, which often come to an end with other good interests. Then we believe that there should be a near-natural law or a mark border around the large city municipalities. Just because these large municipalities are under increased pressure for expansion and population growth is greatest in these municipalities, there is a need to ensure access to nature for the population. Access to nature may be the most important public health measure. In urban areas, priority should be given to taking into account outdoors and natural experiences for the population and areas should be ensured for future generations. We see that many of the municipalities already take this responsibility. They have established their own land councils where they themselves discuss how urban areas can be secured. These are very good initiatives that should be supported by national teams. The Oslo experience shows that there will be no less local ownership and involvement around the land border by making it nationally, rather on the contrary. There are also a number of proposals by the Green and SV Environment Party today that specifically address individual municipalities. There's a lot here we could agree on, but we've chosen to stick to the overall level and not go into the individual municipalities in this round. That's why we're not ready to go into it. Let me conclude by saying that I think it is a pity – I agree with the case rapporteur – that this is not being adopted today. This could have been an important starting point for taking care of important natural areas, both for our country and for all the people living in the municipalities in question. We are not asking for a final decision. It could have given the government time to come back to – do a real job, involve local communities, non-governmental organisations and the municipalities in this work, and make the various choices about where to go. Unfortunately, today there is a lost cause for Stortinget in doing just that, but I agree with the representative Haltbrecken that this is probably not the last time we discuss this. Let me end by saying that I am particularly disappointed with the Left, which I would have been quite sure of last time to support this proposal, but we see that they have thus been refused when they have joined the Right Party and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e525	I would first like to thank the Committee for good cooperation and the rapporteur for a good presentation. So the majority disagree with the rapporteur. I think we're all concerned that we're going to take care of nature in Norway. This should not be a debate on whether those opposed to this proposal believe that near-nature is not important. On the contrary, the parties voting against this proposal have repeatedly demonstrated – both nationally and locally – that they are concerned with nature protection. But notice the word 'local' because that's what it's about. Do we believe that municipalities are able to take care of important natural areas? Yes, not only do we believe it – we see it all over the country. We know that this has been investigated in the past, and that it was then found that the municipalities have good tools here. Then we might have to make some municipalities aware of the possibilities they have. But the instruments are there. This is not a matter of conflict as to whether we are concerned about the conservation of nature, the conservation of nature and the conservation of nature. No, this case is about whether we believe that the municipalities are able to do this task. The majority believe that. Then we hear that this is probably not the last time we're going to discuss this matter. I don't think so either. The opposition has shown for five years that they like to promote the same proposal over and over again. It's okay. But the majority today say that we have confidence in the municipalities, while wanting to raise awareness of the good tools available to take care of the natural environment. With the words of a former speaker, one might say that this struggle for local democracy's ability to take care of its nature today is crowned with victory.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e540	I would like to thank the President-in-Office for a good presentation. Today we are dealing with a matter of nature law. Nature sounds charming, because we're all happy in nature, good natural experiences, being able to meet nature not far from ourselves. Therefore, the Progress Party supports the importance of having good nature, outdoor life and recreational opportunities where people live. There is today a wide scope for public authorities to protect nature both close and distant from where people live. Many people create the impression that there are Greek capitalists who are eager to destroy our nature with bulldozers, unless this proposal is adopted today. Luckily, that's not the case. Most of us who have been local politicians know that there are long and dry processes in municipal land management. Let's say a builder wants to expand. He goes first to an architect's office or a consultant's firm that makes plans. They unlock things that are not according to the overall plan, etc. Remember, these municipal plans aren't often rolled, they may roll every ten years, maybe even less frequently. When I was a local politician in West Agder, we had plans from the 1990s. So these are plans that are rolling later than the national transport plan. Then he sends an application to the municipality. There the administration of the municipality looks at it, changes things in most cases, and then they send it to the municipal politicians – who are once again elected by the population to do this job, which some of the Stortingen now want to do for them – maybe go on an inspection, downscale the project, find better solutions. Then there might be an objection from the county or county council, just to take care of the interests of children, young people, outdoors, etc. If it is not adopted, there will be mediation, and if they do not agree, the matter will be dealt with in the department. For me, this doesn't sound like an easy way for Greek capitalists to build down the near-nature. For the Progress Party, local self-determination is important, and I believe that good decisions on local conditions are best taken locally, without interference from the Stortinge in matters. I don't think we should have distrusted all those local politicians who are doing a job for their communities today, who are trying to find good recreational opportunities, and who are doing this job in a good way. Then I regret – at the end of the day – that I did not come up with this before, that the proposal in favour might have been within the investigation section. For the paradoxical outcome of this proposal, areas suitable for development may be protected, which in turn lead to an even hotter housing market, which in turn leads to more people living in the countryside and driving a diesel car to the city. Ironically, the Green Party and not the Central Party are promoting this proposal. Finally, let's agree that outdoor life, recreation and public health are important. But we don't need a near-nature law to take care of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e557	Good natural experiences are important to all of us. Better public health is an important part of the solution to galloping health costs resulting from lifestyle diseases, increasing life expectancy and increasing age. There is no doubt about this, and there is no reason to make it a conflict in this matter. The central party's starting point is that all nature is close to those who live where they live, regardless of whether it is in the city, or whether it is in the village. The center party believes that those who wear the shoe also know best where it presses, and the starting point is to fence around local self-government and national government. Because we often experience that municipalities are good at finding good solutions, balancing the need to manage and take care of nature and the outdoor interests against the need for cropping, land and on-site development. We're probably feeling that the pressure on the food soil is harder than keeping absolute boundaries for urban natural areas. In such a setting, setting absolute boundaries for urban natural areas could quickly conflict with soil protection as cities need more land. Fredrikstadmarka is an example here. Fredrikstad is one of the soil protection hosts in the country. The need for green lungs and natural areas where people live is not contrary to the desire and need for local self-government, where the inhabitants themselves, through elected bodies, can participate in and influence land policies and the exploitation of natural resources in those areas. On the contrary, there is a good combination, where different needs are weighed against each other, and where we take it for granted that those assessments are also done well in local elected bodies. Through good municipal and regional planning, there are good opportunities to protect and take care of good natural experiences, whether in the urban areas, in the nearby archipelago or in other areas of recreation that we as residents enjoy. The central party is therefore part of the majority of the committee, which rejects this proposal, and, as the representative Heggelund said, part of the position in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e569	I would also like to thank the case rapporteur, Lars Haltbrecken of SV, who gives a good description of how important nature and proximity to nature are for nature experiences, outdoors and recreation. It's a great good for the people. We've had a lot of issues over the last ten years that address this important topic. The Nature Diversity Act is one example of a very important and new legislation that gives us many of the possibilities that a possible near-nature law would give us. Nature is under pressure, whether it is around small and large Norwegian cities, or it is in a wider global context. It is important that we take all the challenges seriously. Therefore, local democratic and local involvement are also particularly important to take care of. For the Left, local democracy is also an important value, and we cannot deprive local democracy of opportunities and the ability to manage locally. That's why we're not so worried that we don't have enough laws to manage and make good local decisions, but we need more tools to do that job. I have referred to the Nature Diversity Act as a more recent legislation, which was an important victory for the Left and for others, but we also have planning and building laws, we have cultural monuments, we have soil protection laws, as others have pointed out here, and we also have the law on motor travel in the countryside. There are enough possibilities in the law to regulate. There is currently a large survey of open-air areas in Norwegian municipalities. It is likely that that scheme will need to be extended a little in order to achieve its objectives. There will be a new tool for local politicians to give priority to and care for local areas of particular importance. However, there is also a government scheme related to the securing of open air areas. It was identified in the open-air communication as an important tool to secure local areas, and thus where the state makes a contribution. For the Left, the tools and tools for local democracy, for local politicians and for the local people – and also other stakeholders locally – are important to point out here in order to achieve just good governance. We see in soil protection issues that there are strong interests, but where the law doesn't necessarily give the result locally. Therefore, the instruments to create incentives and use are particularly important to point forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e584	I can only count on those who thank the case spokesperson for a good introduction. There are many intentions in this proposal that are good and that are about taking care of and protecting a part of nature. But there are also some intentions that we must weigh up against the intention to protect nature. It's about going on some fence posts for which decisions belong to local democracy, and what's best in Stortinget. In the view of the Christian People's Party, there are very clear assessments here as it should be for the municipalities to make. It's also about one being required to be responsible, and one being forced to have a ownership of that protection and of this nature, which we are all concerned with taking care of in a good way. Therefore, I am pleased that the bulk of the population sees the municipal self-government as high. Local authorities are responsible for managing their neighbourhoods in a holistic way and focusing on the nature and quality of the natural environment. In the Christian People's Party, we have a tradition of supporting under the markalova in the Oslo area, but we think it would be unfortunate if one should have a more general approach, where the municipal self-government actually gets narrowed down. Local populace have a good way of working, and I also trust them to be useful.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e595	The forests, the mountains, the heaths, the fjords and the archipelagos around Norwegian cities, villages and towns are a source of joy for hundreds of thousands of us every day. Close access to nature is a unique quality for almost all those living in Norway. The Oslo people have had the law of the land for many years. Why should not other towns and cities in the country receive the same right? Easy access to free nature provides good health, quality of life, great natural experiences and increased knowledge of nature. The most important outdoor arena is the areas that can be reached from home, from kindergarten or school, on foot or on bicycles – or is a short journey from people's homes. Population growth in cities and urban areas today is leading to a great deal of pressure on this neighbourhood. It is therefore necessary to strengthen the protection of the main open-air and natural areas, both on a large scale, such as urban and urban areas, and on a small scale – residential areas and immediate proximity to schools and kindergartens. Then we hear that some parties experience any new protection proposal as a result of excessive regulation and mistrust of local democracy. This is a criticism that has been directed at almost all the nature conservation initiatives that the Stortinget has taken in the last hundred years. Had we listened to such massive criticism, Norwegian nature would have been far poorer than it is today. Fortunately, there are a good number of municipalities that do a great job protecting their neighbourhood, but there are facts that show that today's regulations do not meet goals. All 86 pst. by the applications for extension of construction-prohibited areas were granted in Norwegian municipalities in 2014, according to figures from the Naturverkörbundet the following year. Then we'll have to grab hold of it. The Green Party does not have detailed answers to exactly how such a law should be designed and defined. That is why we believe that the government should carry out an investigation into how a national food law should be designed. And the creation of new, statutory urban boundaries and neighbourhoods is not about three new regulations from above and above the heads of municipal politicians. No, it must be done in close cooperation with local authorities, business operators and civil society. Initiatives to establish urban areas and neighbourhoods may, for example: is taken by county councils and municipalities, by county councillors or by the Ministry of Climate and Environment. Together with SV, we in the Greens/Greens/EFA are promoting a proposal that a number of specific areas should be given national protection in accordance with the Oslo Markalaw model. It is Nesoddmarka, Kristiansand-marka, Mossemarka, Bodømarka, Finnemarka and many other fields that deserve stronger protection. I do not believe that the Stortinget believes that the open-air areas of the Oslo people are more important than the open-air areas of others, and therefore the Stortinget should today support the proposal for a near-natural law.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e610	It is not difficult to agree that we must take care of the near nature. It's the nature that most people use in their daily lives. It is this nature that regularly gives us breathing space, good experiences and movement in everyday life and weekend. It's the one that gives us quality of life and health. There is no doubt that nature is under great pressure. The industry is also attractive to live in and is an attractive place to run. It is necessary to have means to ensure that the neighbourhoods that are important for outdoor and natural experiences do not disappear. This applies to both the large urban areas and the small green lungs. However, I do not agree with the proposer that we need a near-nature law to achieve this. I believe that we can be much better at protecting nature by using the tools we already have. We have laws that provide guidance on different and good ways to protect nature, as needed. The Nature Diversity Act provides for the protection of nature, of different categories and with different levels of restriction. Under the Cultural Memory Act, we can protect cultural memories where nature is often an integral part. However, the Law on Planning and Building is the main tool for maintaining the proximity of municipalities. Through municipal land planning, municipalities have good opportunities to protect urban, urban or small green areas. This tool should, of course, be used by municipalities. Many municipalities do a good job. Many municipalities have established their own land borders by setting aside areas in both municipal and regulatory plans for natural and recreational areas, with their own rules ensuring the use of the site. However, many municipalities can use the action space they have in the Planning and Building Act in a much better way. I believe that the most important thing we can do is to make the municipalities aware of the value of green areas and nature near where the inhabitants live, and to enable the municipalities to make informed and good choices in their municipal planning. The government has done and will do much that will make it easier for municipalities to make the good choices. It's also past governments that have been on, and the Storting that has made, these choices. In particular, I would like to mention the ongoing work on monitoring of open-air areas in the municipalities. All municipalities in the country must have surveyed and valued their outdoor areas by the end of 2018. As mentioned here, there are some people who will have trouble achieving that goal, so I will of course look at extending the project by one year, so that all the municipalities can complete the work. This will provide municipalities with a good basis for assessing outdoor interests against other interests in their spatial planning. I would also like to point to the system of State guarantees for outdoor areas. Under this scheme, the country contributes financially to the purchase or contracts for the permanent use of outdoor areas. Many important outdoor areas have been permanently protected in this way, and outdoor areas in the community are priority areas of the scheme. I also want to mention the work on the ecological base map, i.e. the knowledge promise for Norwegian nature that we are now working with. The base map will provide valuable knowledge of all nature, including of the nature near where people live, and will provide an important basis for knowledge-based management of Norwegian nature for both national and local authorities. I also think it is right to mention that the government will present an action plan for outdoor life later this year. The action plan follows up the news about outdoor life, which was presented in 2016. The action plan shall strengthen the overall activity of open-air life and shall also include open-air life in the neighbourhood around cities and agglomerations. I believe it is important that local politicians have good tools, and that they have an overall responsibility for nurturing the neighbourhood and the small lungs in cities and towns. Then, as a national authority, we must ensure that national protection values are respected. It can be done, and we have tools to do it. I would also like to remind you that it is not always that because you have a national responsibility, it becomes a more stringent protection. I would like to point out that as a former local politician, I have experienced that within the Marka border in Oslo, it was permitted by the Ministry of the Environment to house 92 properties on the South Bank, to which the Municipality of Oslo had not agreed. Thus, a greater expansion was introduced and established than what anyone else would have done after the introduction of the Marka Act and on grounds therefor. We have to trust that local authorities are also making good choices.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e635	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e640	When you hear the speeches, especially from the Right Party and the Advance Party, where one believes that this is where the battle for local self-government stands, it is not possible to interpret the submissions in any other way than that one also disagreed when the Stortinget passed a law on Oslomarka. I know the Council of State disagreed with that. He proposed last year in Stortinget a massive expansion of Oslomarka, and that the Stortinget should determine new boundaries for Marka. Then he used it as a reason: we know that the Marka limit works. My question to the State Council Ola Elvestuen is: Why does he think it is right to have such a law for Oslo, but not for the other major municipalities in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e647	As I say, the Marka limit was important because it set a limit. The Marka Act is unique because it is an area of 19 municipalities and four counties. There is a completely different need for coordination in the markets around Oslo from that in the other areas mentioned in the proposal. There has been a need to set a limit. But as I also pointed out, it has not always been so that it is the law that has ensured that there has not been any expansion. So it has happened that through the Marka Act, previous government – as far as I know, it was SV that was in the Minister of Environmental Protection chair, which had the Minister of the Environment – granted permission for the expansion and full-year housing of 92 properties, which the Municipality of Oslo had said no, and which would never have passed through if it had not had the Marka Act. This is also an example of the importance – I think – to ensure closeness to nature that you also have overall responsibility locally, and that this is perceived as an overall responsibility. [[President clubs]] If you need further expansion, it should be...
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e652	That's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e657	I interpret the minister so that he believes that the big difference is that in Oslo there are many municipalities. I think that also in part of the other urban areas it could affect more than one municipality. I want to ask the Council of State a question about another matter. He spoke in his speech that land-use planning is the most important instrument, both in terms of nature and in terms of climate change. I fully agree with that. That's why I think it was wrong for Prime Minister Erna Solberg to move the plan department out of the department of Ola Elvestuen and into the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernization. I think Ola Elvestuen also agreed. My question to the Council of State Ola Elvestuen is: Does he think that it would have been an advantage for his job as Minister of Climate and Environment in Norway, that he was also responsible for land-use planning in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e666	It is the Prime Minister who is responsible for the distribution between the departments. That's not what I'm going to comment on. It is certainly a fact that the Storting should also take a discussion about, as far as I know, land-use planning has now moved out of the Energy and Environment Committee and into another committee. So I think that's a discussion that the Storting should also be part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e673	I listened with interest to the reasons of the Council of State for rejecting the proposal, and I listened with interest to the Council of State's reference to Oslomarka and the Marka Act. The Marka Act is such that the use of forest, forestry, is not regulated by the Land Act and there is no ban on the construction of agricultural measures in Marka. So it's possible to build forest roads under the Forest Act, and it's possible, according to the Planning and Building Act, to set up agricultural-related buildings. My question is: Will the government change the content of the law on marks based on the experience so far? When I ask the question, it is because this was a major issue in connection with the adoption of the Marka Act in its time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e683	With the risk that I may say something wrong, there is now a regulatory change out of consultation on warning regarding forestry measures. It's in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, so I'm not going to comment on that. But there are no ongoing processes to change the law. What is an ongoing process, and for which I am responsible, is what I have started to use other parts of the law to strengthen protection. In particular, there is a work that I have started relating to the East, to check the protection values in the East and whether there is a basis for a national park there. Although one has the Marka Act, the establishment of a nature reserve and the establishment of an open-air area will nevertheless be discussion themes within the area covered by the Marka Act, but without any changes to the Marka Act itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e690	I thank you for your answer. What was, and is, the big debate theme here, is the use of the forest, that is, forestry. It is clear from the Green Party’s proposal that forestry will be regulated in a way that is different from that regulated by the Oslo Act. There is a point that has not been made in the discussion so far. I want to ask again, there is nothing in the way that the forest is used within the scope of the law on the land, which is such that it should be a condition that a person should take a rematch at that point.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e699	No, the processes in progress are with the other initiatives under the Nature Diversity Act to see if there is a basis for a national park. There may be other areas where nature reserves are needed. We have landscape protection areas and the quality of those that are important, but there are no further changes in addition to what will then be under the Forest Act, which is under the Agriculture and Food Ministry's framework. I would also say if we talk about Marka, that forestry, and especially in Nordmarka, is an important part of the cultural landscape that is built up over time – the historical use of Nordmarka for hundreds of years.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e706	The Marka Act in Oslo – for which the Left, along with the SV, were powerful drivers – provides a unique protection for a very important natural and open-air area. It is not possible to jump under the chair that throughout history there have been repeated discussions about expansions both in the edge zone of and within Marka, which underlines the need for the Marka Act. My question to the Council of State is: Will the Council of State reject the fact that there is also a need for better protection for other urban areas than what we have of these areas today?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e713	If there is a need for better protection – it can definitely be, but then we can look at the tools we have under the Nature Diversity Act. I can also show that we have a protected cultural landscape on Bygdøy – quite similar to large areas in Stockholm and Helsinki, which have similar features. It's a law that can be used. Then that's what we work with the municipalities about, to map what are important open-air areas in the years to come. A person must be able to identify and look at the opportunities that he has to provide important open-air areas, and to raise awareness and knowledge of the natural and open-air values that exist within an area. The outdoor action plan will also be important for that. I would like to point out and believe that it is important that we support the fact that local politicians have enough knowledge of the quality of their area, and that local responsibility for protecting the natural environment remains.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e722	The Marka Act created debate and resistance until the very last of 2009. The Christian People's Party wanted decorations, the Right wanted to send the matter back to the Ministry of the Environment, but in the Stortinget finally voted all the parties – including the Left, but excluding the Advance Party – for the law. Environmental protection is never easy, either nationally or locally. Local democracy works well enough, says the Council of State in its article, but 86 pst. of the applications for extension to areas under construction bans were granted in Norwegian municipalities in 2014. Does the Council of State feel that, based on current tools, local politicians think that protection is strong enough to last for five or ten generations?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e729	First of all, the Marka Act is important and right to have. But getting a state law is not a guarantee against expansion. The largest expansion of Marka has taken place since the introduction of the Marka Act. It happened in the South bank during the previous government, with a permit that the municipality would never have given, with almost another 100 full-year residences – so it is no guarantee, even if the law is correct and important. Then something is completely misunderstood – I think we need to use the tools we have, much more active in the years to come. Then we have to use the full width of the law, within what is the Nature Diversity Act, identify open-air areas, use systems where we can secure open-air areas, and get up the knowledge base on Norwegian nature. But I would like to point out that the Natural Panel came just before Easter with the news of how bad it is with nature and the diversity of nature internationally. We need to mobilise from local environments all the way to international work to stop this, but the local environment and local politicians are very important in taking responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e736	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e743	This is a very important matter in principle. The theme is what makes sense in the management of agricultural land, soil and forests around cities and agglomerations. The core issue is limitations of private ownership. What is the view of the Centre Party on the content of private property rights? Yes, private ownership shall consist of rights and obligations to ensure social considerations. Thus, private ownership is not unlimited, it shall be regulated. What regulations are then necessary to ensure the social objectives? In the case of forest areas, there is a balance of interests between different interest groups. It's forestry, it's outdoors, it's sports, it's cabin life, it's grazing – that's, in our opinion, more use of the forest. What is problematic about the MDG proposal for a near-nature law that provides permanent protection for urban areas, urban mountains and nature near where people live is that the proposal does not define what is the problem, what is wrong, and what does not work well. The proposal celebrates people's use of forest areas in summer and winter. The centre party can no longer agree to that. But there's no problem. Here we have the all-man rights, free movement in the woods, and we have a common understanding of how to organize, so that it becomes easy access. Mapping of open air areas through municipal treatment is a matter for us to follow. However, what is underlying in the case is that in some circles it is a problem that forests are used, that shrubs are mowed. It is a problem that it is mowed, planted and cleared – i.e. that it is used for forestry. Forestry around these areas we're talking about is one of the best in the country, some of the best in the country. What is essential is to get a wise management of the areas, so that we can get an increase in quality biomass production in the areas. It is also important in the context of climate change. The debate has also referred to the Oslomarka Marka Act. As I said, forestry is not to be regulated by the Urban Markets Act, and there is no construction ban for agricultural measures. The Workers' Party, SV and MDG comments on the principles of the Near Nature Act state: «Forest use and other commercial activities must be regulated by law.» So this is a rematch on the content of today's market law. So the proposal is something other than what the government parties, with the Workers' Party and SV, entered into during their period of government. Today’s legislation ensures the use of forest areas for outdoor and natural experiences through a social contract. It is important to keep that social contract, which is based on pride and a knowledge of property owners to manage wisely. It's cooperation and not conflict.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e763	Let me first give honor to SV for good case rapporteur work and wholehearted support. We are also very pleased that the Workers' Party takes a clear stand and says yes to a near-nature law and thus yes to better outdoor life, public health, nature and generational solidarity. It is not difficult to predict that the proposal to establish a near-nature law will also be met with criticism of the overrule of local democracy. Yes, we already have state plan guidelines, we have municipal land plans, we have the Nature Diversity Act, and there are a lot of considerations to be taken into consideration. But the question we have to ask ourselves is: do we have a strong enough protection of Norwegian nature and important outdoor areas that people use most? Is it strong enough to protect important open-air areas, not only during the next municipal government period, but also when there is a strong conflict of interest in a relevant area in 10 years' time? And is protection today strong enough to last for many generations? The reality is that these important neighbourhoods of nature are being built down at a high pace around the country. Some of the criticisms of our proposal for a near-natural law testify that some politicians would have enjoyed lifting their noses from Stortinget's case files and visiting areas like Arendalsmarka, Kristiansand-marka, areas outside Ålesund or the main open-air area of Florø, for all of these are now threatened by expansion. The decision proposed here today gives the government a great deal of space to sit down and consider different types of devices on a law in the light of these long-term, generational challenges we have. Then we find it extra disappointing that the majority seems to oppose the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e774	To MDG: It is that when we enter the municipal sector today, it is regulated by a place between 5000 and 7,000 laws, regulations and regulations. There is no lack of legislation and opportunities within the scope of action that exists today, and that is what we need to stimulate to be used. From my own time in the municipal government and the plan selection, the technical committee, at Gjøvik was one of the grips that yes, we see the challenges, and then we also have to build closer, and we have to build higher in the city. It's also a part of making the green lungs we have conscious. Now it's like this at Gjøvik that we have a lot of them. The top of the court at Gjøvik, which someone probably brought in in winter when it was a large-scale babysitter direct at the NRK, has mostly been known for the last 50 years because there was a café on top, and after that nothing has happened there. We're not bothered that it's being built down too much. We have large areas. But it is also a long-term administration that conscious local politicians have provided. It's also about not building down too much land over time. There is a lot of expansionary pressure – there is a great need for housing in the city. But it's clear that the Akslafjellet and Baneheia have other challenges again. So it is also that very many municipalities around Norway are actually the largest forest owners in their own municipality, within the extent of the municipality. A lot of municipalities aren't very conscious of that ownership. Here, too, there are great opportunities to use their own reason to facilitate neighbourhood and increased use – more public health, we all will, more experiences and to allow kindergartens and schools to take advantage of the opportunities available. Again to Gjøvik: The pole hunt that one has created there has created great enthusiasm and great participation. Children's seats, etc., which have made use of new digital possibilities, are being extended. It also makes you more aware and more aware of the local administration of which areas are popular and where challenges arise. So it's more the instrument and the use of the possibilities and competences that we need to stimulate the municipalities to today, instead of giving them another law that is not necessarily possible to enforce.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e788	It was the representative Per Espen Stoknes who made it imperative to redraw. The majority in this case have not at any time said that we do not share the intention of the proposer that it is important to maintain the nature of the food. But we have said that around the country we see a number of good examples locally that the instruments that already exist are being used. And then we have to make these instruments better known in some cases. We all agree on that. But it can't be that, in some individual situations, not all the instruments that already exist today are to be replaced by central governance on the part of Stortinget. Then I think MDG might be able to look a little closer at a municipality where they control themselves, my and the representative Stoknes’ municipality of residence, Oslo, where MDG has both the EEA and the urban development agency. And what do we see here? Where is the consideration of green areas, of nature, here? Ida, it's going to build the MDG down, and they're going to replace it with gray concrete, always the easiest option for builders who'll do it the simplest and cheapest way. Area by region is graying and greying with the MDG Agency and with the MDG Urban Development Agency. One might say that the best argument for this proposal is the way the Green Party has chosen to govern this city. But no, we'll still show confidence in local self-government, even if MDG in the capital hasn't shown that trust worth it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e797	It was the representative Stoknes from MDG who said it very clearly: the question is whether we have a strong enough protection of Norwegian nature. It's a very abstract term. Then the representative put it into practice that it is a problem that it is being built down. Yes, we agree. It is then irreversible measures that are currently regulated by the Law on Planning and Building, where the State has great power if the State is willing to use that power. But what is part of the problem of the statement ‘strong enough protection of Norwegian nature’ is that there is a kind of understanding that nature is something that is untouched. It can't be more wrong. Norwegian nature is by the nature of the world that is least untouched because we have been a country with a people who have had to use nature. And the Council of State was in the middle of it: something that makes nature and forest areas attractive is just the historical and current use of the area. It makes the use of natural areas more attractive. You know, how many people are on the move to achieve a cultural-historical goal or to achieve something that is a result of past or current use. But it is essential how this use takes place, so that it does not destroy the natural values or, for example, destroy biodiversity. What's interesting is that throughout that discussion, MDG avoids being able to discuss the use of forests. Go outside, said the bend. Why does the MDG, SV and now also the Workers' Party not want to discuss that one in the neighbourhood law as one here suggests, unlike for Oslomarka also regulate forestry measures? Why don't you dare say that it's forestry that helps to make nature values and outdoor experiences worse? That's what's underneath. One must then acknowledge that the forest must be used. But the centre party likes to discuss how we use the forest, how the multifunctional is in the forest, so that outdoor values and natural values are more protected. But there is a discussion that the MDG has not yet been interested in going into, and I am waiting with interest for it. Finally, there are also proposals here that cover areas in Buskerud, and I invite the MDG to the holiday home at the Røkebergjerna to discuss these questions in concrete terms. It is within their proposed protection area.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e808	The representative Per Espen Stoknes has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e813	In one minute you don't get a thorough account of how the Right is happy to use statistics, but I notice that the representative Heggelund is an expert on a typical Right property, which goes about picking out a few and good examples and then haying them up like applying to a majority. Now the representative Heggelund can follow up on some simple statistics: 14 pst. That's right, and then you can talk about 14 pst. But that's 86 pst. again that is completely incorrect, where an exemption is granted, where it is built in the prohibitive zone. So if he just wants to talk about the 14 pst, well get it, but especially statistically right it won't be for that reason. So Oslo: I understand that right now it's bad not to be in City Council in Oslo, because right now Oslo has become clean enough and green enough to become European Environment Capital. Oslo has never had more green measures and has never done more to ensure simpler and better access to green areas, both in and near urban areas. But of course – the representative Stefan Heggelund would rather not talk much about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e820	We were challenged by the representative Lundtägen about our proposal to take forest and forestry into a near-natural law. It should be known to the representative that SV also wanted this included in the Marka Act. It does not prohibit forest management in these areas, but it means that the public should also be able to participate to a greater extent than at present in the operation of these forests. Unfortunately, the Land Act exempts forest management, but in any case it has a preliminary obligation to notify it so that voluntary organisations can become more involved in and transparent in terms of controversies, and thus also participate in the impact on whether they are to be done and, where appropriate, how they are to be done. We want to expand this opportunity through the proposal of a near-nature law that we are presenting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e827	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e843	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e852	This is an important matter. I want to thank the Committee for good cooperation. Environmental poisons are one of the major environmental challenges facing the world. It's essential that we solve it. Environmental poisons are a threat to nature, animal life and to humans. They may cause irreversible damage to the environment and to human and animal health. The awareness of this is increasing. We see more and more entries, including in the media, about how environmental pollutants affect our everyday lives. That's why it's important that we fight together about this problem. It's good that we have a broad consensus in this area. We have a common objective that emissions and use of pollutants should be continuously reduced in order to stop emissions by 2020. Then we can work on two fronts. One, and perhaps the most important, in terms of the greatest global impact, is international cooperation. Therefore, it is important that Norway participates actively in cooperation with other EU countries in order to bring environmental regulation through EU and EEA legislation REACH. Norway does. We're active drivers, and we're going to continue to be. This does not mean that we have no responsibility on our own. This is why this government has a number of plans, which involve efforts to reduce pollutants in Norway. It shall include, inter alia: an action plan for the non-toxic everyday life is drawn up and new targets for the phase-out of priority pollutants are to be set. Work will be done to strengthen international eco-labelling schemes and old environmental emissions will be monitored and cleaned up. It says something about the thorough approach the government has and the thorough work the government is prepared to do in this area. So that's the best way to solve the environmental challenges. We also need to realise that sometimes the national space for action can be small, and it can also have less effect than being a strong driver internationally, as Norway is. I believe that the government has a good and comprehensive policy in this area and I am pleased that the majority has a consensus on the main means of solving the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e863	Thank you to the MDG for putting this matter on the agenda. The work on environmental toxins is one of the really major environmental challenges. Unfortunately, the problem is increasing, and we see that there are increasing numbers of pollutants in the arena. We surround ourselves with environmental poisons very many places, and it's particularly serious that we know that kids are often the most exposed, among other things. because there is often a lot of environmental toxins in toys. The future in our hands has done a very solid job of documenting how many places we surround with environmental poisons. For many there was an eye opener when they saw how the paper on the hamburger, for example. was full of environmental contaminants. We know that toxins can be bad individually, but that might be the combination of several that might be extra bad, and that's what we need more knowledge about. But when the problem is so big, it is at least good that the commitment is also increasing, and that there are more and more who view this as one of the major problems that you have to face with stronger policies. I fully agree with what the rapporteur said – that the most important thing is what we do internationally, that we are working internationally to put in place better regulation to prevent proliferation. It's obvious that that's what gives us the greatest results both in the world and for us in Norway. However, the international perspective must not be a resting place for the work we are going to do here at home in Norway, and from the Labour Party we believe that it is really urgent to start work on the action plan for a non-toxic day-to-day life. Nationally, we have to pursue a policy that gets the toxins out of the circuit, that consumers know more about what kind of toxins they are exposed to, and thus can make conscious choices to avoid them. I think there are a lot of people who don't know how many places in everyday life you can meet with toxins. In connection with the waste notification, the Workers' Party, together with part of the other batches in the opposition, went in order for us to get a directive on the content declaration above the highest priority toxins. Therefore, we do not go into the proposals that we are voting on later today, but refer to the proposals and comments we make in dealing with the waste notification. Finally, let me present a challenge to our new climate and environment minister, and that is to take an initiative towards business. Obviously, business can do more than they do today. They also have a social responsibility, and about the information coming out, I'm sure this will also be something that pays off. Norwegian consumers don't want to get married, and I think those who go ahead have a lot to do with it. We already have some tools that we know to work well. The Swan Brand Scheme is such a scheme. It is an important measure for us that are consumers. I believe that as consumers we need more knowledge, so I encourage the Minister for Climate and Environment to take an initiative towards business on how they can be involved and fight toxins in everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e876	There is no doubt that pollutants are one of the three main environmental challenges facing the world, together with greenhouse gas emissions and biodiversity reduction. Environmental toxicity can lead to irreversible damage to the environment and to human and animal health. The representative proposal we are discussing today has a number of good intentions in itself, but we believe that this is well taken care of in a number of big business messages that have been dealt with in the last year, last in the waste notification, which was dealt with just a few weeks ago. In connection with Innst. 127 S for 2017-2018 there was an overall committee which asked the government to work for a ban on products containing PFAS, in line with EU legislation. Through multinational cooperation, the aim is to maximise the scope of the bans, and the Central Party considers this to be the most appropriate and effective way of implementing them. It is important to work to reduce the spread of pollutants nationally and to ensure that Norway adheres to its international agreements to this end. The phasing-out of environmental pollutants in consumer products is and should be a high priority of the government, as the Storting has decided in several cases that have been dealt with recently. As mentioned earlier, a number of plans have been adopted which contain and work for reducing environmental pollutants in Norway. It shall include, inter alia: an action plan is drawn up for a non-toxic everyday life. New objectives to phase out priority pollutants shall be set. Work will be done to strengthen international cooperation, and old environmental emissions will be monitored and cleaned up. Point 45 for 2016-2017 and Innst. 127 S and the proposals and comments on the environmental toxins which the centre party put itself behind in this context. The Central Party supports the idea that international cooperation in this area is essential, but also sees a need for national responsibility. The centre party therefore refers to the last big messages that have been dealt with recently, and we will therefore not support the Green Party's proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e889	Last fall, the dramatic news came that all the continents in the sea west of the Sklinnabank were so full of pollutants that fishing was banned. Food surveillance does not understand why, but old dumping sins from the plastics industry in Europe can lurk beneath the surface. Fortunately, surveys of sites are now being launched in order to find out where the pollutants originate. The chances are great for the pollutants to come from a time when the sea was used as a garbage dump — out of sight, out of mind. 359 sites along the Norwegian coast may be so contaminated that they are a threat to nature and health. This shows studies carried out by the Nature Conservation Association a few years ago. Even after two decades of industrial emissions cuts and landfill cleaning and contaminated seabeds, a number of pollutants continue to damage coastal nature. Studies carried out show that the environmental toxins damage everything from the brush field to the larger sea mammals and seabirds. At all 30 Norwegian ports, fjords and lakes, the Food Agency has recommended that we not eat the delicacies we can pick up from the sea. They're full of things we don't want into the body. Many of the pollutants have endocrine disrupting effects, which can cause sexual dysfunction and reduce reproductive capacity. Nevertheless, appropriations for the clean-up of old pollutants have been greatly reduced in recent years. Instead of new cuttings, the means of cleaning up must be increased. If it doesn't, it'll take many decades before the dish gets so clean that we can eat it. But at least as important as clean-up is to prevent the release of new pollutants into nature. I think that all of us in this room are concerned about what the pollutants that spread daily through the consumables do to us as human beings, and what they do to nature. However, it is a pity that the only instrument that many people have is to point to the EU. International cooperation in the fight against the spread of pollutants is important, but we cannot let it be a brake on removing major threats to our nature and our own health. I am therefore anxious to wait for the new measures notified by the government to combat the spread of pollutants, so that we can avoid scandals like the one we received at the Sklinnabanken last autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e908	Let me start by thanking the case spokesman for the work. This is a matter of broad agreement in this room. We need a targeted and intensive fight against environmental toxins. It's about this being one of the most serious tragedy we're facing, in terms of climate change and loss of biodiversity. Fortunately, in Norway, under varying governments, we have our proponents for international bans on pollutants. This is a struggle where Norway is going to have a leadership role towards the countries we're working with to make demands on market players. It is good to focus on this also in the secret debate, but it is not a reason to go into the proposals that are being made here, simply because we are already working well with our neighbours on this, whether it is REACH or the national action plan, which is also being raised. It's not necessarily such that you can put in place national bans immediately. It requires extensive documentation and comprehensive impact assessments. So I think it's better to coordinate our efforts against the things that we're already doing well. To phase out environmental pollutants is going to be a high priority task, and I trust that the government will come up with good proposals where Norway can continue to take the important role we have internationally, so that we can deal with this problem to a greater extent than we do today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e917	Neither humans, animals, nor ecosystems are adapted to a world where harmful substances spread on a large scale to soil, water, and food. 60 years ago, there could be six to seven different harmful pollutants in the human body, for those who grew up. Today we find in the human body between 200 and 400. Children who grow up today are exposed to far more pollutants than those who grew up one or two generations ago. Humanity has already succeeded in reducing the use and spread of a number of pollutants through both national and international measures. But at the same time, new drugs are introduced even faster. It is discovered that more substances than you thought accumulate in the food chain. These developments must be met with tougher instruments than they are today. This is urgent. That is why it is disappointing that the majority of the population is as hesitant in environmental policy as we have seen in recent years, and as we also saw in the treatment of the waste notification, in which the proposal for the content declaration of goods containing priority pollutants was voted down. It was quite positive that an overall increase in the treatment of the waste notification agreed that Norway had to work for the ban on environmentally hazardous PFAS in line with EU legislation. However, putting in place an EU ban often takes many years. Therefore, we should put in place national measures such as bans or taxes on environmental products pending EU regulations. And while we're waiting for any ban in the EU package, we wrap our children into environmental products, we're lubricating environmental toxins under our skis in Easter and in our faces through cosmetics. These proposals, which are on the table, could be adopted today, a proper package of measures, despite the government's devaluation and tendency to push the EU ahead. We could have made great progress in an important area of Norwegian environmental policy. We could give children and adults in Norway much better protection against environmental toxins. It would have been amazing. Unfortunately, all batches other than SV choose to block for the following sensible decisions: prohibit PFAS as soon as possible, consider other national bans pending international regulation, increase the control of pollutants on imported consumer products, impose toxic-free purchases on public purchasers, etc. We, the Green Party on the Environment, made choices to make the fight against the spread of environmental toxins a central issue during this major period, against the devaluation of the government. We're going to keep doing that, even if we didn't get the sense of our proposals here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e928	Does the President wonder whether the representative should take up the proposals of the Green and SV Environment Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e933	I'll take up the suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e939	The representative Per Espen Stoknes has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e944	There is no doubt that both I and the government are giving priority to phase out environmental products in consumer products, as the proposal for a representative addresses, and it is not at all that it is plight or that it is pointing to the EU or pushing the EU in front of it, which focuses on the fact that there are international regulations that are the most important and most effective means of action. That's exactly what we're doing -- because that's the most effective tool we have. Consumer products traded in Norway are largely produced in other countries. Environmental pollutants are transported across borders through air and sea streams, and Norwegian, national, own prohibitions will therefore have little effect. To phase out environmental expenditure in consumer products, we need to cooperate with other countries and act at international level. I will therefore continue to put the effort into international work. That's what results are. Norway has an impact on its regulatory proposals, both within the EU and internationally. The EU and EEA chemicals legislation is the world’s leading chemicals legislation. Norway is very active in promoting bans and evaluating substances. Norway is a strong driver of stricter regulation of environmental pollutants internationally, both in the EEA and globally, under international conventions. That's where our people are going to work, that's where one gets the biggest effect. It is not that national rules and national prohibitions are not labour-intensive; it also takes time and is extensive work with much less effect than focusing attention on getting this to international attention. Perfluorated substances and triclosan are included in the Norwegian priority list of substances that environmental authorities are systematically working to phase out. Targeted efforts are already being made to reduce the use of these substances. Several perfluorinated substances are already banned or are in the process of being banned internationally. Triclosan is already strictly regulated by EEA legislation at present. There is a very limited room for action to introduce national regulations on pollutants or to impose national requirements on products. Chemicals and products are regulated by EEA legislation. National regulations could be regarded as illegal barriers to trade contrary to our EEA obligations. In order to strengthen consumer information on products, good international labelling schemes are the most important ones. Products with dangerous chemicals, such as detergents, glues and paints, sold in Norway, have hazard marks and warnings on the product and the content of the dangerous substances is indicated. The Eco-labels Swan and Flower help consumers to choose environmentally friendly alternatives. Consumers are also entitled to information on substances harmful to health or the environment in accordance with the existing legislation. The Swan label has also been strengthened economically in recent years, and the government platform envisages continuing to strengthen the international labelling regimes. Finally, I was challenged as to whether we could have better cooperation with the business community. In several areas, we now have good cooperation with business, for example: to reduce food loss. Cooperation in the field of textiles is also under way. The industry itself has taken the initiative to charge plastic bags and will also work on how to use them to reduce the use of plastics. I also want to invite business to work together to reduce the use of disposables and disposables in plastics. These are also instruments in the field of chemicals. It really has to be considered in more detail. Now, business also has a substitution obligation by always choosing what is the most environmentally friendly, if it is an alternative. Finally, the fight against chemicals in products is a priority area. Norway is very active in this field internationally — it is the most effective — and we will continue to do so in the years to come, while, of course, following up on what is our own action plan on hazardous substances and chemicals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e959	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e964	In January 2015, Stortinget addressed the action plan for a non-toxic everyday life. At the same time, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party went in to lift the ban on lead hail. The current head of the Storting Energy and Environment Committee, Ola Elvestuen, expressed that this was quite special. I have to agree with that. In a reply to Mr Arne Nävra earlier this year on lead munitions, the Council of State wrote to Elvesuen: «There is a great deal of knowledge about the health and environmental risks of lead. We have sufficient knowledge to conclude that the use of lead hail for hunting poses a risk of damage to health and the environment." Lead is also on the list of pollutants Norway is to phase out. Nevertheless, the Council of State will not take the initiative to change the permits to use lead hail, despite the fact that we have a new expansion. So my question is, what is it that the Council of State is taking the initiative to reintroduce the ban on lead hail?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e976	Lead is one of the most dangerous pollutants we have, and there is no lower limit to what can be harmless. The spread of lead and any presence of lead have negative consequences. When this matter was up in Stortinget in 2015, both I and Left voted against the lifting of the ban. What we're doing now – and what I'm doing – is, of course, following developments closely. Otherwise, I have to deal with the big decision that has been taken, and there is nothing in the government platform that provides the basis for taking any initiative to do so. So the answer to the question is well that the majority of the Storting has to be in order to reintroduce the ban.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e983	Can I then ask the Council of State whether he will be positive that there will be a proposal from the Storting to reintroduce the ban on lead hail?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e988	If Stortinget decides to reintroduce the ban, I will of course follow it up. But there is nothing in the government platform that provides the basis for any government initiative to make such a change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e993	I noticed that the Elvesu State Council in its contribution again prepared the strategy of pushing the EU ahead. Before Easter, the Greens and the Greens stood on their shoulders in the fight to join the EU's climate and energy policies, because there is a Union of progress. But in the case of pollutants, they're actually a sink. While waiting, we have a wide range of proposals for action that we can put in place at national level, without having to wait for the EU, for example. more frequent control of environmental pollutants in imported consumer products, the investigation of an excise duty on products containing PFAS, the imposition of non-toxic purchases by Norwegian public purchasers, the strengthening of research on the impact of pollutants and the provision of more resources for the work of the Public Health Institute. Which of the national possibilities for action will the Council of State address?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1000	There were a lot of suggestions here, and I don't think I remember everyone. But I mentioned some of them earlier. Of course, this is the control function of the Directorate-General for the Environment, the supervisory work – they have probably checked about every year. 700 products and 120 to 125 importers. Otherwise, as I said, we have strengthened the Swan Eco-label scheme in recent years. I believe it is important to continue a work on it, and it is also on the government platform. It is not possible to say that this system within the EU and REACH is not good. It is the best thing in the world, and there is no doubt that the most effective Norway is doing is working actively to get more bans within the EU. Making a separate fee on PFAS, as there are so many products that contain, I think will be difficult technically, and there will also be a wrong use of effort to actually put in place a ban.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1007	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1025	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1034	This has become a very positive case, where all the games are largely in agreement. The Oslo soil is the country's most trafficked fjord. It's the gateway to the capital, and it's ports along the entire fjord. In addition, it is very important as an open-air and recreational area for all the people who live in connection with it. There are about two million people who either live in connection with or are users of fjords. But the traffic and activity of the fjord also makes the ecology and environment of the fjord under pressure. The oslof soil is important for both plant, fish, animal and bird life, and it must be an objective that the use of fjords is sustainable, that consideration of nature must be crucial, and that the work on restoring previous damage is stepped up. That is why it is very good, important and right that all parties today support a proposal for a comprehensive plan for Oslofjord with a clear objective of achieving good environmental standards and of ensuring biodiversity in the fjord. From our side, it has always meant that we should facilitate more outdoor activities and the use of fjords. The municipalities around the Oslofjorden are among the municipalities in Norway with the largest growth and population growth. This makes the fjord an increasingly important outdoor arena. For this reason, a proposal, which is supported by all the parties in the Committee, is being promoted today which clarifies precisely that outdoor life must be an important part of the work on a comprehensive plan for the Oslo Earth. We in the Labour Party were ready to go even further and vote for what was the original proposal of the Council of State Ola Elvestuen when he was a magnificent but, as the Left now votes against, a proposal for a management plan that also includes new areas of protection. There we record again that the Council of State recommends that we do not vote in favour of the proposal. But we're doing that now, together with the SV and the Green Party. All in all, this has become a good thing. We're impatient to get a plan in place. The Labour Party has many rapporteurs throughout the Oslofjorden who are ready to be part of this work. Let me finally say that the work here and the discussion in this room about Oslofjorden is probably not over. Today we are going to discuss outdoor life and natural diversity, but later we will probably also discuss what climate opportunities lie here. We see exciting opportunities for Oslofjorden to also be a precursor fjord, and for emission requirements to be imposed at the ports of fjord. I take this into account both the loose proposal – the committee’s proposal – and the proposal of the Workers’ Party, SV and the Green Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1053	The representative of Åsmund Aukrust has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1058	For us who have had the pleasure of using the Oslo soil as a recreational area for the rest of our lives, this is a good day. This was, of course, a good proposal from the former representative of the big business, now the Council of State, Ola Elvestuen, and I am pleased with the broad consensus on the proposal today. The Oslo soil is an open-air area, it's a food barrel, it's a traffic lane, and it's cultural memories. It is simply one of the most important recreational areas in the country, and it is an area that needs a comprehensive plan. That is why we agree with what we are going to adopt today. We are pleased with the majority we have in order to both restore important places in the Oslo soil, preserve biodiversity in the Oslo soil and, not least, ensure that it can be used as a recreational and open-air area in the future. It is also the case that the Committee has a proposal that we share today, which we will, of course, also vote in favour of.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1067	Oslofjorden is an amazing cultural landscape with great natural interests – in fjords, in fjords and around fjords. It's a fantastic cultural landscape as a trail, as a recreational area, and as a residential area for about two million people. And as the representative Lundtigen spoke about in a previous case, it has become like it has become, over centuries of use, activity and development. That should still be the case. It should be a fjord where people who live close to it and depend on it can use it, but it must be a sustainable use that ensures biodiversity. The centre party therefore supports the proposal for a comprehensive management plan for the Oslo Earth, in order to achieve that – a better environmental state than what we see today – an environmental state that will ensure that the cod returns, which ensures that the natural and biological values are preserved, which is important for the whole of and around the fjord – to the joy of us who live and live here today, but also for those who are going to live and live here after us. We're concerned with use in the Center Party, and we don't look at an overall management plan as a contrast to that. We see it as a sustainable way to continue to use fjords, both as a dining room, a transport vein, a living area and a recreational area, in cooperation and in agreement with the values that are there.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1076	This is a very good proposal, which will have a majority here today, it looks like. It will be exciting to see what comes out of the proposal. It can be very extensive, and very interesting, but it's clear that it takes some time before you see the results. That is why I would like to draw attention to the same large majority of people on another proposal, which is now on the business committee, namely immediate measures to save the coastal cod in Oslofjord. In many ways, the coastal cod is a species of signal that tells of the state of health in the Oslofjorden. And not only that: what characterizes the coastal cod population, that it has gone back a lot, also applies to many other species in the fjord, for example. Lyres and other fish – and it's urgent, it's very urgent. The spawning population is now so low that it can fall below such a threshold that we can lose local coastal cod stocks in Oslofjord. It's a terrible search. I've seen pictures from 50, 60 and 70 years ago that almost look like scribal. So this is gone, it's just a saga. So you can discuss what's the reason for that. Ida, it can be due to climate change, and it can be due to eutrophication, i.e. pollution. There might be a lot of factors, but there's one factor that we can do something about, and that's overfishing. There has been a huge overfishing, which has been documented by the Marine Research Institute for many years. For ten years, the Marine Research Institute has documented what has happened, and they have made strong recommendations for action without any action by the authorities. So I am asking that the proposals that are available, including: to follow up the recommendations of the Institute for the Exploration of the Sea, to be noted, and to have representatives who are concerned with the well-being of the Oslofjord, to speak with their colleagues in the Economic and Social Committee on that very proposal. With that, of course, I will wholeheartedly support the proposal that is available here today, and I am very excited to see the results of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1089	Will the representative address the proposal that SV is involved in promoting?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1094	If it's not, I'll do it, of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1099	Then the representative Arne Nävra mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1104	I want to use the opportunity to thank my party colleagues Grimstad, Elvestuen and Raja for promoting that proposal, and I very much appreciate the fact that there is a total accumulation that today supports large parts of the proposal. The oslof soil is, as I said earlier, an important source of open-air and recreation. But as the representative Nävra in the post before I was there, it also has major challenges that we need to address – old environmental sins, but also new challenges, which we have discussed earlier today, relating to the environment, the nutrient content, which we have to take seriously, and, of course, population growth. With that, we get into the fish management. I want to draw your attention a little southward, to Øresund, which has the same challenges of population growth and density. There they have a jet-free Øresund, and sports fishing that grows and grows. It also has a great economic value – it is not that there must be a contradiction between economic development and biodiversity. We may not be going to a straw-free Oslofjord, but overfishing in the fjord is at least something we need to look at – what means – and that we need to put in place measures to get back, among other things. the coastal cod stock. So there's a lot of problems ahead of us. It's also nice to see on either side of the fjord, at the Outer Hyler National Park and the Fäder National Park. It shows that we are taking coastal landscapes, fjords and water more seriously. We need more of that, and that's why we also have a great job ahead of us in developing knowledge and competence in further management and seeing this as a whole. There are a lot of actors who are going to be involved in what we're about to do. As Mr Nävra was about to say, we may not see the results tomorrow, but many measures can be seen very quickly, and it is important that we get started quickly to save, among other things. any of the fish stocks.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1120	Sometimes it seems that small words can have a big impact on how we, as colleagues, deal with a lot of things. I might not say that words are magical, but at least there was a transformation when one went from talking about a management plan to talking about a holistic plan for the Oslo Earth. It solved a lot, and now there is a joint committee behind a proposal – and a loose proposal, which also takes on some important values about an active outdoor life. That's very good. I don't need to use many words here. The oslof soil is important, both for shipping, as an open-air area and in view of the natural diversity in the spring, both for industry and for private use. Much right and positive has happened in recent years, but there is a need for a co-ordinated power cap. That's why the Christian People's Party wholeheartedly supports this and will vote for the loose proposal that the entire committee has put behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1127	This is a good day for the Oslo Earth. We are given a decision where the Stortinget asks the government to present a comprehensive plan to the Oslo Earth – with the aim of achieving good environmental status, restoring important natural values and preserving biodiversity in the fjord. We in the Greens are delighted. This is a step forward, and I will give a lot of credit to both the proposers, from the Left, and the government so that we can get this decision in place. At the same time, it is a reality that this proposal is too little concrete. There may be some good results – it may as well be that the actual changes are small. That is why the Green Party has taken initiatives on more proposals here today, which we believe could provide even better protection for the unique values of the region. First of all, we believe that the beach zone must also be given much stronger protection than it is today. Secondly, we believe that we should have an oslof soil law that gives fjord protection, after the inspiration of the Marka law. The reality is that access to the beach zone and the Oslo soil has been greatly reduced in many of the municipalities around the fjord in the last 50 years. The ban on construction in the coastal zone has to a small extent been properly enforced. The general construction ban in the 100 meter belt along the sea was first introduced in 1965. However, the law allows municipalities to grant a derogation. This option is widely used, which has led to large-scale privatisation and a restriction of access to fjords. In the Oslofjord County of Akershus, 564 of 650 applicants received a derogation to build a new one in the beach zone, i.e. over 86 pst. dispensation. It was in the years 2005-2010. The figures illustrate very clearly that today’s law does not work. The reason why we also need an oslofjord law is that Oslofjord has a number of similarities with Oslomarka in terms of the importance of nature, outdoor life and recreation for a large proportion of Norway's population. At the same time, pressure is even greater in this area than in other regions. In other parts of the country, there has also been an increase in the number of land conflicts between farming industries and fishermen on the sea area. A law can help to bring about any new types of land conflicts in the pre-purchase, with a clear national regulation. An oslofjord law should then state that fjord should be essentially a common public opinion. It is important to take care of the fjord and the ability of the population to engage in outdoor activities, sport and recreation. At the same time, it should preserve the unique biodiversity of the fjord. That is why I am addressing the Greens' proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1138	The representative Per Espen Stoknes has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1143	I think it's both a little unique and a lot of fun – if it's possible to say it from here – to be one of the proposers and get a decision in the Stortinget and at the same time be able to implement the decision as a Council of State. At least there will be a short way from the decision to get the work started. There is no doubt about where the responsibility lies. I am also pleased that there is a joint committee on a decision, a loose proposal that everyone supports. The Oslo Earth needs a complete plan. Two million people use or live near Oslofjord, and it is thus an important recreational area for a large proportion of the population of Norway. Oslofjorden is also one of the most trafficked fjords in Norway. The sum of all the activities leads to the deterioration of the fjord environment. Oslof soils must be secured as an important resource for outdoor life and recreation for the population. At the same time, we must ensure the ecosystem of the fjord, which is varied and special, so that future generations can enjoy the fjord as much as we have today. This is the reason why I and my co-sponsors have felt that it is necessary to create a comprehensive plan for the Oslo Earth that can provide a good, sustainable use of fjords. The representative’s proposal uses the term ‘management plan’. In order to clarify that the work in the Oslo Earth has some differences from the management plans for the North Sea-Skagerrak, the Norwegian Sea and the Barents Sea, I think it makes sense that we call this a comprehensive plan for the Oslo Earth. It is really about respecting the position of the management plan for the sea area and that there is no confusion between them. These include: a completely different image within the fjord, with more interest groups than in the open sea areas, so that the process of developing the plan will be set up in a somewhat different way than with the management plans. In the configuration, the Committee has clarified the objectives of the plan. It is the objective of: fjords must achieve good environmental status restoring important natural values ensuring the biodiversity of feathers; The last decision also underlines the importance of outdoor life. I believe that these clarifications of the objectives of the plan provide a good basis for further follow-up. The proposal for a representative emphasises that work on a plan for the Oslo soil must be based on the EU Water Directive. The Oslo soil is covered by the water management plans for the water regions Glomma and Vest-Viken. I would like to assume that a comprehensive plan for Oslofjorden will be based on and complementary to the existing water management plans. As the Committee refers to, work on the plan will also based on best knowledge aim at preserving and rebuilding important natural values; facilitating uses in line with scientific biological frameworks; Both the draft representative and the committee focus on knowledge-based management. It's e.g. launched a research project on the coastal cod stock and the marine ecosystem in the Outer Oslofjord, starting from the national parks of Fäder and Outer Whaler. I hope that this project will provide a basis for finding out whether the increased use of conservation areas can help to strengthen or restore coastal cod populations and marine ecosystems. There is no doubt that maintaining coastal cod stocks is an important background for achieving a comprehensive plan. It may also be among the most important measures that need to be taken first, because the situation is as acute as it is. As with all major plans, there is no need to wait for the necessary measures to be taken pending their completion. I think that is an important feedback to Stortinget as well. We don't yet have the recipe for how we can best rehabilitate damaged marine environments. In order to base the work on the overall plan on the best possible knowledge, I will provide as a first step an overview of the available knowledge and what further needs of research and experimentation so that Oslofjorden can be managed in a comprehensive perspective. This is the knowledge we need if we are to be able to exploit the enormous potential of the sea without compromising it. I am also concerned that all users of the fjord must be involved in the design of the overall plan. I am engaged in a comprehensive management of seas and coastal and fjords. Maintaining and improving the state of the environment in the marine environment should receive considerable attention. In Oslo, we should pay particular attention to the very extensive use and impact of the fjords and neighbouring areas due to large populations around the fjord. This makes good governance important. The work on a comprehensive plan for Oslofjorden will contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1191	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1196	The Greens are today promoting a proposal for an oslof soil law. Some believe that plan work is all that is needed. Sometimes there is also a need for a law to ensure that plans are followed up and that there is a sufficient long-term perspective. My question to the Council of State is: Will the Council of State, in addition to the planned work, also start a work on an oslof soil law?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1203	No, no, no. As I pointed out, we are working on a follow-up to the EU Water Directive – the water management plans for the Glomma and West Viken water regions are in place. They lie there as a basis, and what I think we need is precisely this overall planning that takes into account both the issues of outdoor life, the use and the activity that are in Oslofjord, and what are the more acute issues, for example. related to the coastal cod, which was mentioned, and other measures to maintain the quality of the Oslo soil. So I think it's also right in this area to build on the basis that we have, but we need a comprehensive plan of action. Starting to create an oslof soil law is a terrible cumbersome process that I think will give little more than what we get in a whole plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1208	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1215	Today is the day we begin to take Oslofjorden back. Finally, the fjord gets its own environmental plan. I am very pleased that an overall committee is behind this Left proposal, which will ensure that Oslofjorden can still be an attractive recreational area for us people and a clean and good environment for fish, plants and other animal species below the surface. The aim of the plan is to ensure good environmental status for Oslofjorden, and it is high time it came. It might not be that long until it would be too late. Last week we heard that the coastal cod stocks in the fjord have collapsed. We who live in the area have believed it for a long time. Now it's vital that we find a way where fish and people can live together without one excluding the other. Over 40 pst. the population of Norway lives less than three quarters of its journey from the Oslofjorden, and for the Left it is a fundamental value that everyone should have access to natural experiences where they live. Our clean and spectacular fjords are one of Norway's strongest maps when it comes to attracting tourists. Pure nature and a strong biodiversity have its own value, but it's also something we make money on. The Oslo Earth is a food dish. Professional fishing is important, but it is essential that it is done in a sustainable way. The goal must be that those who come after us can experience the joy of getting good catches and putting short-range fish on the dining table. I am particularly pleased that the Council of State has signaled that he wants an inclusive process in this plan. It is important that the users of fjords are involved in the work on the overall plan, which also focuses on cultural protection, so that we get a result that we can all agree on. As a representative of the Vestfold Left, this is a special, joyous day. In any case, since 2009, we have had a plan for Oslofjorden in our election program. The Left on the Stortinget has also promoted this proposal before, unfortunately without getting through before now. Then we record the recent publication of a number of newspaper articles – and even the promotion of representative proposals – that are an expression of the fact that more people will have shares in the work of a fjord in ecological balance. That's good. But one day like this, I must be proud to remind you that this is our boat, and that we have hired a very competent captain. Of course, we wish others a warm welcome on board, but we are going to make demands for good knowledge-based mariners. It's going to be all right.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1228	This is an important and joyful proposal that will be welcomed by all those who live around the fjord. It is also nice that it has received full support, because it ensures sustainability and long-term sustainability in the follow-up. The Oslo soil is special compared to the rest of the coast of Norway, and it also has special pressures and challenges. Nevertheless, there has been a marked lack that no one has the overall responsibility for the management of the fjord. The district council in Eastfold has repeatedly decided to want a comprehensive management of fjords, and is already working with Westfold on, among others. Coastal cod and lobster. The plan should be drawn up in close contact with the municipalities and counties concerned, not only through written consultations, but also in order to gain important perspectives early in the work. A perspective that appears to be deficient in what is adopted today is the economic perspective. For those of us who live along the coast, it should be as important to be able to live on the fjord as to be able to play on it. We also know that it is fully possible to combine industry and environmental work, among other things. through the production of niche products contributing to the purification of the sea and to the improvement of the environment, such as raising sea sausage and algae. Also in the case of blacklisted species, such as Pacific oysters, which are a major problem along the fjord and along the coast, it should be possible to combine work with the environment with opportunities for nutrient development. The Oslo site should benefit from being a pilot in a zero tolerance effort for marine pollution, both through coastal lotteries and support to others who clean the beaches, and with concrete measures to ensure zero tolerance for local plastic emissions. Finally, such a plan should assess whether, in the future, overall management should be added to a separate body, so that the plan not only becomes a bluff in the wind but an approach to a sustainable management of fjords.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1241	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1257	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1266	It's little that engages us more than predatory game politics. That's understandable. Animals touch something in us, both at good and bad, but for many of us predators are a very large part of everyday life. When we deal with questions about predators politically, the conflicting interests it is important to take into account. In Norway, we have set a two-fold objective in the field of deforestation policy, and that twinning continues to be the basis. This means that in the case of e.g. wolf, it is not only the concern of wolves that is crucial in the management of the species, but also the finding of best possible solutions for both grazing, landowners and other interested parties. At the same time, the management of predators shall be differentiated in such a way as to give different emphasis to the different interests in different areas and to different species of predators. Furthermore, it is essential to ensure a management that ensures predictability and local involvement. The settlement of the big game in the predatory game policy suggested that viable populations of the five major predatory game species should be ensured – yews, wolves, gloats, bears and queens. At the same time, it is important to stress that an increase in the number of individual groups of predators, such as: wolf increases the pressure on residents and industry in the affected areas. It has therefore been necessary to introduce measures to facilitate the situation of those directly affected by the wild game populations. In particular, I would like to highlight five measures that have been important: A new system of means of conversion has been set up in predatory areas. These rates have been increased for the compensation of municipal claims. A grant scheme has been established for municipalities affected by wolfevir. There is a testing scheme with new instruments in the licensing of yours. The threshold has been lowered for the damaging of predators before the grazing season. A separate monitoring body for predatory game has also been established to identify stock sizes, number of juveniles, prevalence and impact of hunting and killings. In the future, it will be important to strengthen and improve interaction with the local killing teams in order to ensure a good local anchoring of the hunt. At the same time, it is necessary to consider opening up new and more efficient hunting methods for take-offs. Finally, I would like to stress the importance of setting up an independent rapprochement campaign, which deals with all complaints about quotas decisions for hunting and killing taken by the Environment Directorate and the predatory wildlife subjects, and that the Ministry actually follows up the agreement in the Storting and the measures and expectations that lie there.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1299	Carnivores in Norway are part of our natural fauna that we are obliged to manage, and the management of predators in Norway is anchored by broad agreements in the United Kingdom that Norwegian wild game management should take place within the framework of these provisions. The Labour Party believes that it is essential that the management of predators be carried out in line with the decision of the Storting on stock targets in the framework of our international commitments and the Nature Diversity Act. At the same time, we know that there are major conflicts between the grazing industry and predators in some parts of our country, and we believe that it is important to contribute to solutions that are in line with the necessary balance between responsibility for sustainable predatory wildlife and other considerations, so that the level of conflict between different interests is mitigated and we can manage predators in line with our obligations. Norway has a separate responsibility to ensure a viable stock of predators within its borders. At the same time, we shall continue to pursue the two-part objective of having both viable predatory game populations and active grazing. We have to take into account that living with predatory game close to each other can put a heavy burden on local communities as well as on the people involved. It is therefore essential that the management of predators strive to create confidence and respect in the population and seek to mitigate the level of conflict. Both dialogue and local involvement are therefore important for administration, and the interests involved must be listened to. That is why, through broad conciliation, the Storting House has decided that we should have a regional administration within the framework of a national predatory policy. So today, together with all the other parties – with the exception of the Centre Party – we are in favour of rejecting the proposal of the Centre Party to make major changes to the Robbery Administration. This is a predatory game management which has been adopted by a broad agreement here in the United Kingdom, and where the framework is well anchored in a large majority in the United Kingdom. Finally, I would like to point out that there is a mistake in the attitude of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, where it may seem that there is a disagreement between the representatives of the Workers' Party in the Trade and Energy Committee and the Committee on the Environment. It's not. Everyone agrees with what was set up by the Business Committee. We do not support the creation of an independent predatory game subject that is to deal with the complaints about quotas decisions for hunting and killing taken by the Environment Directorate and the deer. We disagree to leave to an independent comment to deal with these matters. We believe that it is a responsibility of the government through the Ministry of Climate and Environment to manage our predatory wildlife stock sustainably and in line with the Storting decision and set stock targets.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1312	Thank you to the President-in-Office for a good case. In 1879 Bjørnstar Bjørnson said in the play Leonarda: «The time of great emotions has returned!» Had Bjørnson lived today, it might not have come into play with the theme of feminism, but in a theme dealing with predators and wolves. Because there are few things in the public debate that arouse more emotions than just the management of predators. I understand that. It's about the safety of individuals, it's about business interests, it's about nature protection interests. In other words, there are many considerations that need to be balanced. That's also why a unanimous increase was in favour of the predatory game deal, and that's what forms the basis of today's predatory policy. This means that we should pursue a policy within the framework of the Berne Convention, the Natural Diversity Act and the two-part objective of having viable populations of the large predators and a viable grazing industry in Norway. At the same time, we must ensure management with acceptance both on the environmental protection side and on the predatory side. For the Progress Party, regional governance, respect for ownership and the quality of life of individuals and the community are important values in matters relating to predatory game management. That is why we have always worked to ensure that the greatest possible degree of management is carried out by regional predators within the national frameworks. The minimum level of conflict between the various interests must be ensured. I don't think many in this country want to eradicate predators in themselves, but people want to have a sense of security. This is something that the Storting must weigh against other considerations, and it is important to have in mind local circumstances. Although this is not a proposal dealing exclusively with the management of the wolf, it is not possible to escape the wolf. I have no plans to start a new, big wolf debate in Stortinget today, but there are some principal considerations I would like to share. Today's debate climate around the wolf reminds a little bit of a bitter divorce, where both sides interpret things for their benefit and go to court to get their will when you disagree with the Storting. I also think it is worrying when the policy is moved into a courtroom. Because it doesn't belong there. Management of predators is a political decision where the government is expected to act in line with the will of the Storting and to follow up the decisions taken in this room. On that occasion, I will refer to the settlement of the Storting in connection with Report. St. 21 for 2015–2016 and stress that this agreement is valid for the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1325	Calving is approaching for the reindeer industry and grazing is approaching. The centre party is concerned about the current predatory policy and that it will have serious consequences for more traders. It's only been a month since 27 sheep and lambs were killed in the town of Kvænangen. This is unfortunately not the first time such an animal tragedy happens, but this time it was so visible because it happened in the field. Animal losses due to predators are very often experienced by farmers. Most of the losses occur on the outback, which means that there is no overall view of the total losses. Each farmer stays standing alone with his loss, and they must use great resources to get these losses documented and made visible. This happens despite the fact that Stortingets' agreement says that in priority pastures it is safe to keep livestock on pasture. The 2004 and 2011 breeding stock settlement was based on a two-fold objective. It was intended to ensure sustainable populations of predators, while at the same time facilitating the continued active and innovative development of grazing. Today there is a policy where predators are given greater focus and priority than grazing. The overall picture is that today’s predatory game management takes far too little account of the nutritionists and communities involved. There is no doubt that the two-part objective of predator management must be clarified, so that it becomes clear that these are two equal objectives in line with the previous Storting decision. The Central Party believes that predatory policies must be prioritised and better managed. Robbery students should be given real responsibility for the management throughout the year. It must be made possible for the names to be used in the event of contingent damage throughout the year. The 2011 rapprochement came about due to the persistent unacceptable loss of sheep and domestic animals due to predatory game. The parties state that, in priority pastures, livestock should be kept on pasture. In the summer of 2016, it was found that the stock target for wolves had been exceeded, and the predators decided on the licensing of wolves. This led to the Stortinget in March 2017 instructing the government on how the Berne Convention and the Nature Diversity Act were to be understood. Today we can read in several media that government council Elvesuen will not extend the hunting period for wolves outside the wolf zone – despite the fact that the population is much larger than it should be. This is in that case a breach of the looting agreement that the Storting has decided. There's still 17 wolf left of the allowance that was to be taken out. It is clear that the Left has gained free play in predatory policy, and that the Right Party and the Advance Party are placed on the sideline in this matter. I finally take up the proposal from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1336	The representative Sandra Borch has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1341	SV is probably the lot here in the hall that clearly points out that it is possible: yes, thank you, both. SV is an agricultural party, and I refer to all the agricultural business we've had. I refer to the treatment of the agricultural message here in the hall, and we are a party of nature protection. Then it's probably not necessary to refer to so many things. I think I can say that I personally represent this in almost my own person. I've been working with these four big predators for many men's years in the past profession, closely. I am a member of many nature protection organisations and at the same time a member of the Small User Team. That means that I know this matter from both sides, and I definitely mean – and I have to say it with my hand on my heart – that it is possible to combine both aspects here. That means that I largely agree with the view of the great majority of people on the management of large predators, but of course, as everyone knows, SV wants a larger population of large predators, because they are not viable populations today. There are some proposals that could have been followed up, some points that could have been raised, and there could have been measures that were quite simple to implement and that had given less conflict. We had been given greater acceptance for e.g. to transfer very many subsidies to agriculture, to which I agree, if a number of measures had been taken that would have been easy to implement without consequences. For example, there is room for several wolf flocks within the zone, without causing larger sheep losses. There's no question about it, we have knowledge of it. It's possible to have more yews in the lowlands of the East – I don't understand why it was hunted there when there's no sheep there – and also take the yews out where there's sheep. This is a strong recommendation to the Council of State sitting in the Chamber, because it is actually possible. In those areas it's both you and wolf, side by side, and it's very interesting ecological and researchable. So there are some things that should have been taken care of, and that applies, among other things. the inhumane methods of killing, the cruel methods of catching which people react to, and which create even greater divisions. This concerns the withdrawal of yours, and then I refer to the proposal from SV and MDG, which is available. I must also say that spring hunting on the bear is not a particular teasing. I think the wilderness writer Mikkel Fønhus had turned around in the grave. He worked against this when he was alive, and he had worked against it now. This also applies to hunting with globular booths, which are quite terrible, in my opinion. We'll get back to that. With this, I address the proposals submitted by SV and MDG.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1354	The representative Arne Nävra has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1359	In the programme for the Left, it says, among other things: that we want to increase the stocking targets for the five large predators. We have entered into a government cooperation, and the Jeløya declaration does not state that increasing the population is an explicit objective. However, management is an important part of the declaration, and therefore we are pleased that there is broad support in the Storting for the national predatory game policy, for the two-part objective and that we need to focus on zone management. When the Center Party says that you want more power for the predators, it's understandable. It's a very politicized body where the Center Party has most of the leaders, and they have a significant number of members in most of the robberies. The becoming of such political bodies is not necessarily the best basis for creating trust and competence in administration. Therefore, it is important to continue the build-up of competences that is now taking place in the field of deforestation management. I see clear examples of this in my home state of Uppland. We had wolves that came out of the zone and entered Skåbu in 2013, and we were a bit paralysed and looked at. We did not have so much knowledge of hunting wolves in Norway then, but today we have built up a competence to extract wolves when necessary – as an example. The representative Arne Nävra said that we still have hunting methods that we shouldn't be proud of, and it's possible to change the extraction of yours, where we can get away from it of course very effective hi-up, which is not very humane hunting. There are absolute opportunities to strengthen competence in areas other than wolves. As competences and administrative bodies are built up, it is, of course, possible to increase stock targets. What's important is that this is moving, and so the left is comfortable with the position we're in now. It's necessary to do both, but not necessarily at the same time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1370	Norwegian predatory policy is based on several good and balanced settlements in Stortinget. I'm glad that the big crowd is now running into the likes. The Christian People's Party has always said that Norway should be with us and take our share of responsibility for the predatory populations that belong naturally here. That's what we've done. We also stand for a natural policy where one also emphasises the interests on the other side of the conflict. We are fully behind the wolf settlement and the former predatory likeness – not just because they are compromises, but because we think it is right to have a balanced policy. As stated in the agreement, stock regulation shall be implemented once the stock target has been reached and then primarily through licence hunting. Licensing provides local communities, legal practitioners and hunters with the opportunity to have both a responsibility and a role in stock regulation, and that is positive. This winter has happened, and it will have to happen later winters as well. With such a balanced position, one might also in the future get criticism from two sides. That crossfire is I'm glad that the bulk of the potion is now willing to stand in. Because in the balanced policy where one weighs the two matters up against another, one assumes responsibility for the obligations one has for not eradicating species that are part of our fauna. The Christian People's Party was the only center party that chose to be part of this reconciliation. The centre party has chosen another path, and since the last predatory debate, the Left Party has become a government party with responsible government councils in the field. We're sure he's going to follow up the wide differences in the Storting about this. We stand firm not to confuse ourselves, because we are confident that the trustee's responsibility covers the whole of our fauna and the diversity of species. At the same time, one should balance it against the other interests and people who live their lives and do business throughout our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1384	Peace activist and philosopher Mahatma Gandhi said this: ‘A nation’s greatness and its moral progress can be measured by how it treats its animals.’ In Norway, we have the practice of keeping the four large predators on the brink of extinction. Wolves are regarded as highly critically threatened in Norway, the bear is considered to be heavily threatened, the gloat is considered to be highly threatened, and yours is considered to be highly threatened – according to the 2015 Red List. In this situation, the Central Party therefore chooses to make a proposal in terms of: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals for reduced stocking targets for the large wild game species.’ It is a dramatic proposal, witnessing a frightening attitude towards self-interest and a lack of respect for nature and species of peace. Today’s good news is that the Centre Party is standing alone on its proposals for a further deterioration of predatory policies in Norway. This gives rise to the hope that there is at least a clear intention in the majority of the population that Norway should have a policy that takes care of all species belonging to Norwegian nature. At the same time, today’s treatment means that a rather unsustainable situation for Norway’s predators continues indefinitely, as the Greens and SV’s proposals to increase stock targets are also voted down. A responsible predatory policy must mean that there is a plan to remove predators from a situation where they are constantly threatened with extinction. We, the Greens, recognize that there are very demanding, conflicting interests in predatory policy. We have a great deal of understanding that farmers who lose animals to predators experience this as a tremendous burden. We agree that the big community must take its share of this burden, and we also agree that it is much better to use grazing resources in forests and mountains than to increase imports of, for example. Brazilian soya. But for us in the Greens, it is not appropriate to go along with basic principles for a responsible environmental policy, namely that we people should not dwell on nature, but recognise that other species too have the right to live in their areas of life. Together with SV, we also propose to wind up the practice of hijacking yours. This is a totally unacceptable form of hunting that violates the common ethical principles of hunting, and is intimidating many of those who care about nature and nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1405	The blue-green government is pursuing an active predatory policy in line with the two-part objective of having both predators and grazing animals in Norway. We are responsible for ensuring biodiversity in Norway under both the Nature Diversity Act and international conventions. Wolf, bear, yerv, gloupe and king eagle are part of Norwegian nature, and in the government platform we are clear that we will ensure viable populations of the five major predatory species. It is a challenge to take care of both predators and grazing animals while at the same time keeping the level of conflict down. If we are to have the broadest possible policy acceptance, it is important to have clear zone management, so that predators and grazing animals can be separated as far as possible in time and space. In addition, the choices and decisions we make must be based on the best available knowledge. And experience shows that we have succeeded in our policies. There is a great deal of distance between the description provided by the proposers and what I think is the actual situation. The proposal for a representative claimed that in recent years, Norwegian predatory wildlife policy has had the mark of giving priority to predatory game, at the expense of an active grazing policy. I believe that the actual figures, both in terms of the loss of grazing animals and the development of wild game populations, show that considerable attention has been paid to the concerns of grazing industries. Since 2013, the loss of sheep has almost halved and the loss of tamrein decreased by a quarter, while the number of sheep on the outback has increased. This in itself shows that we place great emphasis on the consideration of grazing industries and that policy is basically working. Developments in wild game populations also show that the situation description of the proposers differs from reality. The populations of both gupe, yew and bear have been reduced in recent years. If you subtract from the many hiutches of yerv, the reality is that the populations of yerv and yerv and bear are below the population targets of Stortinget. In line with the decision of the Stortingen, it is now necessary to facilitate the growth of these populations. The royal eagle population is good within the target population, and only the wolf population has grown in recent years, which is now larger than the target population. In addition, a number of measures have been implemented in recent years to reduce losses and mitigate conflicts. Examples include the creation of a new system of funds for the conversion of sheep farming into predatory areas, more money for municipal pests, the establishment of a grant scheme for municipalities affected by wolfevir, the testing of new instruments in the licensing of herds and the professionalisation of pests. I am pleased that the majority of the population do not support the proposals of the Central Party. The description of the situation being taken into account, I believe, is based on claims that do not match the knowledge we have in this area. As an example, I can point to the proposal of so-called standing killing permits, which in practice means that all wolves can be shot at any time without the authority's assessment, outside the wolf zone. It is an eye-catching proposal for an animal that is totally satisfied and critically threatened in Norway, nor is it a cause for this under the Berne Convention and the Nature Diversity Act. We're going to have a predatory game management that takes into account the two-part objective. The frameworks are set out in the Nature Diversity Act and the Berne Convention, the 2011 Robbery Agreement and the 2016 majority Wolf Decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1422	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1427	This debate shows that there is a large majority on the Stortinget that will manage the wolf in line with the stock target set by the Stortinget. There shall be six youngsters per year, three of whom are whole Norwegian. Today, the population is far too large in relation to the stock target adopted here in Stortinget. The question that we then need to get answers to is whether the new climate and environment minister has actually planned to manage the population in line with the decision of the majority of population, so that we get three heroic juveniles, or whether there should still be a population that is significantly above it. The representative of the Left said in his speech that the Left wants a larger wolf population in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1432	I would like to remind you that during this season there has been a record withdrawal of the wolf. 26 or 27 wolves are taken out this year. If you count the limit population as 0.5, 62–64 is the total number we have. We will manage from the decision of mass destruction, the majority of wolves' decisions and the stockpiles, while respecting the Nature Diversity Act and the Berne Convention and the obligations there. And we're going to have a viable population. It's about the number, but it's also about the genetic quality of the wolf population we have. It is strongly characterized by inbreeding. We have to make sure that we have a policy that makes a genetically important wolf have an opportunity to become part of the population, so that we get a stronger genetic quality on the wolf.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1437	There's one thing that still needs to be solved here. It is the question that remains unanswered and that is repeated here today, whether the Minister for Climate and Environment will deal with the stock target. We need a clear and clear answer to that. That was the core of the major conflicts we had with Vidar Helgesen as Minister for Climate and Environment. The question is simple, and we need a clear answer: should it be management in line with the stock target of six young people and three whole-norse young people per year?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1442	The answer is the same thing: yes, we're going to have an administration. The frameworks are the Nature Diversity Act, the Berne Convention and the objectives set by the majority of the Stortinget. Within them and the two-part objective, management shall take place.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1447	Today we can read in the media that the Council of State will not extend the hunting period for wolves outside the wolf zone, despite the fact that there are 17 wolves left by the quota to share, and the population is far above what it should be. Why is it that the Council of State does not follow up the settlement of the Great Britain in this matter, and now seems to be peaceing also wolves that are outside the wolf zone?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1452	First of all, there are not 17 wolves outside the wolf zone – there is much more than that. What has been done is that there has been a proposal to extend the hunting period until 1 May, with a deadline of 1 March. There have been many hearings, on the one hand to be for, but there have also been hearings showing that there is a risk of taking out genetically important wolves. Last year we had one genetically important wolf in Norway. It was shot in the Great Elvdal on 25 October. It's critical of the stock we have. What I need is longer time to look at the hearings that have come before we make a decision. The decision now is that nothing is done, i.e. the hunting hours are not changed this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1461	I notice the Council of State's response. Once again, I have to point out that the population is today far beyond what it should be. What is the Council of State’s position on the twofold objective regarding predators and grazing animals? Is it the case that the council prioritizes predators in front of grazing animals?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1466	No – and that is exactly why we need to focus on the results of the policy. It's been 42 pst. reduction in the loss of sheep in Norway since 2013. It's been 27 pst. reduction in the loss of tamrein since 2013. The two-part policy is working. And that's what we need to strengthen, so that we can secure grazing – because there are more sheep grazing today than it was in 2013 – while following up the international commitments we have, and the goals we have set for the big predators.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1472	It is important in this debate that we stick to the same concept that we are not always introducing new things. Here the state council talks about 56 wolves, but the Stortinget has always talked about both the Norwegian population and the border population. Then we're at over 100 wolves, and we're going to count the frontier population by 0.5. Governments have suddenly begun to talk about genetically important wolves outside the wolf zone. It is a term that has not been used by Stortinget in any conciliation until today. We have to stick to the same terms. The size has adopted a stocking target of four to six coals, three of which shall be whole Norwegian. Today, Rovdata has documented that there are 13 coal in Norway in January 2018. The question is: Is the Council of State behind the objective set by the Stortinget, that we should go down to four to six coals, of which three are Norwegians, and does he now recognise that we are far, far beyond that objective?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1479	A little over 100 wolves have been registered in Norway in the last year. 27 of these are shot. So calculated, if you also calculate the frontier wolf, it's 62–64 wolves right now. That's the way it is. 13 coals have been registered. Two of these were removed in January in Julussa and Osdalen – they were shot. So it's less coal now. This will, of course, be part of the basis for predatory wildlife when setting the quotas for the next year. It will be part of the normal decision-making basis for the management of wolves in the years to come. That's exactly what I said earlier: we have an international responsibility, and then it's important with genetically important wolves. It's clear, because there are two things that threaten the wolf population. One is the number, and the other is the genetics and the inbred we have. If you have bad genetics, you must have more wolf. We have a common interest in having good genetics.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1486	In contrast to the previous speakers, I would like to pay tribute to the Council of State for today's decision to stop the proposal to extend the Wolfey Act outside the wolf zone. By extending the hunting period, one could risk shooting genetically important wolves, as happened during hunting outside the zone earlier this winter. My question is the following, because on the Left's website we can read that the Left will "increase the stock target of all predatory game species based on professional recommendations": Why then does the Left vote against the proposal to increase the stock targets of the four major predatory game species in Norway – which intends to ensure viable populations – in the Stortinget today?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1493	What you vote for must be the answer to, but the Left has opted for the description that is, and we have negotiated a government platform to ensure that we have viable populations of the large predators in Norway – while dealing with international conventions, the Nature Diversity Act, the 2011 agreement on predators and the 2015 majority wolf decision. It sets the framework for the policy we are going to pursue. There will, of course, be a discussion about how management to achieve this. And there are several things. One is the condition of predators. The second is that we continue the reduction in loss rates, with which we have had good success from 2013. And it would be an advantage if we were able to bring down the level of conflict in this field. It'll also be part of the problem we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1500	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1507	A great many speakers from the Scientific Committee do not choose to talk about the concrete proposals at all. They talk about predatory animal policy in general, and they get one to ask questions about whether it has at all been the Committee's willingness to go in and evaluate the concrete proposals presented in this case. It seems like you've just decided that the Center Party is so hopeless that in sum you choose to reject everything in a bunch. The point is that many of these proposals are rather moderate proposals, and everyone is not dealing with wolves at all. In particular, points of the proposal. 1, clarifying the two-part objective of the forest game management, should have been of interest to all those who have participated in the Stortingen robber settlement from 2004 until today. It is quite strange that not the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Workers' Party can participate in such a proposal. Our proposals do not just deal with wolves, they deal with much more than that, because we know that soon it will be grazing season, and soon it will be domestic season. The calving season for tamrein and wildrein has been very problematic over the past few years – not all over the country, it is to be said, not at Hardangervidda, but the entire southern Saami region from the Femund and northwards to the Nordland has suffered great losses during the calving season for tamrein. But not a finger is the Right, Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party willing to lift to address that issue. They also later, as if they did not exist, are hiding behind statistics that apply to the whole country, not to those areas that are most vulnerable to problems. I understand so much that the Greens and Greens have a different view, and I respect that. They mean something quite different than that, for example. Me and the Center Party believe in this matter. I respect that. I'm not going to use unfamiliar words about other parties that have different views, as opposed to some others who are on the pulpit. But I'm just so surprised that both the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party – especially – go up on this pulpit and say that we must have respect for the reconciliations that have been concluded. But they don't have any questions about what the state council chooses to do today, where he chooses to strike a line over the extended hunting time of the wolf that the government decided before Christmas – he skips a line today. In violation of the intentions of the similarities we have concluded, he strikes a line over it, and none of the parties react. Nor do they react to the fact that an allowance of 17 animals is left outside the wolf zone, without taking it. It is remarkable that the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party do not react to it, because it is in conflict with the similarities that they have been in, and that they also say we must all respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1516	The majority of the Economic and Social Committee, the members of the Labour Party, the Right, the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the Christian People's Party, assume that the wolf population is managed both outside and within the management area of the wolf, in line with the four-six-year-old population targets set by the Storting, three of which are helnorphic juveniles per year. That's the core of the debate, and that's the core of the fact that there's been a lot of conflict in recent years. Unfortunately, the lack of response from the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment made it clear whether the government has actually planned to follow a government in line with this stock target of four to six young people per year, with great likelihood of continuing conflict over the next few years. We have a management area for wolves, not a wolf reserve. It must then also be managed within the management area in line with the stock target – once it has been achieved. The lack of management in the management area is the main reason why the stock is now significantly above what has been democratically adopted and what many demonstrated for implementation. Unusually, demonstrations tend to go against decisions made by the Storting, but here we have seen a demonstration to get it carried out. It is therefore the responsibility of the government, and in particular of the Minister for Climate and Environment, to follow up the agreed policies that we have decided to apply to Norway jointly in the United Kingdom. That is the essence, and that will be the core of the debate in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1535	In my office here at Stortinget I have a picture. The picture was taken on the Salt Mountain in February last year. The sun has finally come back, and she shines at the top. And on the white, snow-covered wide fuse there was a small reindeer. The picture looks very nice – for those who don't know better, and that's actually most of us. The young reindeer who sent me this picture was completely hopeless. I have used this image afterwards to ask many politicians if they see what's wrong with the picture. No, most people don't, but some people make suggestions, for example, that it's wrong that the biggest reindeer goes last. No, that's not what's wrong, that the biggest sim comes last. The picture is of a reindeer flock of 15 to 16 Simler. State Council Elvesu has probably not seen this picture, but I'm going to tell the council what's wrong with the picture: there are no calves in the flock. This picture is the situation of reindeer farms in Northern Ireland. Here, access to calves after losses is lowest in Norway, and it has been for several years. Young Lars Nikolas Kuhmunen, who sent me the picture, also asked a question that I would like to pass on to the Council of State Elvesuen today: Is it life-ready to drive clean on the Salt Mountain? I believe that the Elvesu State Council, which has most of its political experience from Oslo, needs to participate directly in the reindeer's experience skills. That's why I've invited him to be with the reindeer owners in the mountains in Northernland, and that's of course done in cooperation with reindeer owners and the head of the reindeer families' counties. Unfortunately, the council missed that invitation, but now the reindeer have invited themselves, and I hope the council accepts the offer to be in the mountains. Because I think the Council of State shares my view that it should be possible to operate cleanly in Northernland. Traditional and sustainable grazing shall be possible in the Nordic region, and Northernland is actually one of the best grazing areas. We have the best slaughter weights on clean. It's not too much pure. Clean is not in bad condition.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1546	In the previous case, which was a management plan for the Oslofjord, Carl-Erik Grimstad was in the pulpit and said he was very pleased that the Council of State in this matter is adding up to an inclusive process. I really hope that the Council of State will add up to an inclusive process in the management of predatory game in Norway too — because it is necessary. It is necessary because some of the important things in the area of the management of wild game are to take action to mitigate conflict, i.e. to try to mitigate the conflict as much as possible. I can't, with my hand on my heart, say that the previous Council of State contributed extremely much to that. What is important is that management is done in such a way that we avoid the major conflicts and that everyone is included in this process. Then I believe that you also have to include those who live in the districts, who live in the areas, who know the problem, who have the problem, and who know what this is all about every day when they let the sheep out on the pasture, and when they're going to follow the kids to the bus stop to send them to school or kindergarten. It is a fact that grazing is a challenge in the field. But it's also a challenge to send their kids to school and be afraid that wolves or other predators will attack and take the kids. It hasn't happened yet, but it can happen. The horror that the parents then feel, it's important to take seriously, because such a fear is real. There's nothing they're just imagining. I think those who live outside of Ring 3 know better than those who have no particular relation to what this is about. Another thing is that those who live in the districts produce something that we all depend on, namely food. They should be able to do so even if we have predatory game in Norway. If you're going to have a chance to do that, you're going to have to fix it and make sure that what we're dealing with now comes true. Then there can be no doubt that the stock target we have is to be followed up, as the Council of State has now done in its intervention by saying that it is important to take care of the genetically important individuals. This raises doubts about compliance with the stock target. Such a doubt is involved in creating conflict. Therefore, it is important that the Council of State now says that the stock target should be met, even if we are to care for the genetically important individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1555	The Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party have built up most of their argument about why they are not on our proposals, that the Robbery Agreement should apply, and so it must be. The representative of Storehaug, for example, indicated that the predatory game agreement is good, and that he expects and assumes that it is followed up, and that when the stock targets are overfilled, withdrawals are made. But that is not the case today. As we've heard repeatedly in the hall already: it doesn't happen. I live in the wolf zone. Now we have 13 coals of wolves that have been registered so far this year. There shall be four to six total young people, three of whom are genomics. Nevertheless, the Council of State does not take any action at all. It was announced an extended license hunt, but it withdrew the Council of State, with the subtle justification that there may be a risk of loss of genetically important wolf. The Council of State has said several times in the debate that he believes the Central Party has a description of reality that deviates from reality. Then I wonder what reality the Council of State lives in. It would have been nice to know, because then it would have been a little easier to accommodate his argument as well. When the Council of State has been confronted with today's number of juveniles, he begins to refer to how many individual animals it has been, and we have heard quite a number of different numbers of it also from the Council of State in the debate. But it's 13 coal. If you take the factors 1 for helnorphic coal and 0.5 for border revir, that's going to add up to 8 juveniles. 8 kids is 100 pst. more than 4 young people. It's going to be four to six kids. I wonder if the Council of State really knows how many withdrawals must be made to get down to the stock target. Can we get a clear answer to that? That's a number. Recently, I also asked the Council of State why the sheep farmers who lost 591 sheep in Rendalen in 2016 have not been fully compensated for their losses and extraordinary costs. The answer was, among other things, This was because prevention measures had to be taken in advance. You couldn't compensate for the loss in retrospect – yeah. In our proposal, we propose inter alia: to make scheduled take-offs of wild game as a precautionary measure to avoid damage and to do so before grazing. Why is the government not willing to consider such a proposal? I hope the Council of State can answer that. It's a very good proposal and good action, which means that we don't wait until the damage has happened and we have to see massacres after massacres every summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1571	First, I would like to thank the Minister for the climate and environment – for the second time today – for today’s warning that he is refusing to extend the period of licensing for wolves. The proposal sent out at the hearing would extend the ulway act into the breeding season. So the government listens to the many skeptical hearings and refuses to extend the time of the fall, is a small point of light for anyone who is concerned about taking care of Norwegian predators. Some words about the Yurve proposal: we have to be able to comply with normal ethical hunting principles also for the other predator species. Respect for breeding satisfaction is important both for the animals themselves and for the general acceptance among people of predator management and hunting in general. Many animals are thus taken out today as well, and the Greens expect the government and Norwegian environmental management to be able to manage Norwegian predatory policies in the framework of normal hunting principles for the other predatory species in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1578	I'm also going to re-examine the question of the stock of wolves, because there's also some sort of confusion strategy, trying to provide new types of numbers all the time. But let's stick to the coal: it was 13 wolf coals before the hunting season started. It's 11 now, after it's finished. There shall be 4-6 coal after the size laid down and 3 of them shall be whole Norwegian. It's probably now after a hunt for 5 helenorsian and 6 border reverencies. Let's stick to it, and let's think about it, it's going to mean that you're going to have to take a big share during the next harvest if you're going to go down on the goal of the Stortinget – if you take that stock seriously. In such a situation, when we are so far above the stockpiles target, the Council of State therefore chooses to change the wolf policy of the government by removing the expanded wolfact out of April that the previous climate minister offered, so that there are still 17 quotas that have not been taken out, outside the wolf zone, and at the same time introduce a new concept, which surely the civil service has been willing to help, namely ‘genetically important individuals’ outside the wolf zone. It is a concept that none of us have heard before in any big document or otherwise in a big deal. In this debate it sounds as if the Workers' Party is two different parties. I want to challenge them to get together and decide, because when I hear the Sandtroe and the Aukrus, respectively, I get the feeling that there are two different parties. But it's not just about the Workers' Party, it's about the jam, it's also about the Advance Party. It sounds as if there are two different Progress Party, one in the Business Committee and one in the Energy Committee. I think it's an advantage if we all speak with the same voice, at least from the same party, in this case. When the Christian People's Party says here that they are very concerned – and that is deserving – that they have to follow the similarities they have been in, as the only center party, and that once the goal is reached, it has to be taken out: Yes, but the goal is reached on the wolf. We are far above the stock target on wolf, and we are far above whether we interpret it as Norwegian stocks or as border stocks. I respect those who think we have to take animal welfare considerations related to predators. But we also need to take animal welfare considerations into account for the grazing animals and for domestic animals and for wild animals. It is the balancing that lies just in the two-part goal, which obviously no one is so much concerned about anymore, but which I think it would have been very sensible if we had gone through more closely. It was also the first and most important proposal of the Central Party in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1593	The centre party and SV agree on a lot, especially in agriculture and district policy. The representatives Borch and Arnstad know that very well, and we're going to stick together in the fight for those interests. But in predatory questions, we separate layers. I think it's a Norwegian agricultural bear service that the Center Party creates a bridge and split against the nature protection organisations in this matter. If there is a need for Norwegian agriculture, there is cohesion — to take care of the districts, for Norwegian agriculture, especially the peripheral farming, increased self-sufficiency, short-distance food, etc. Here, nature conservation organisations have been largely meeting in the 1970s, 1980s and 1990s. We know about that. The distance has after each session, for example: because of this case. The major threat to Norwegian agriculture is the WTO, the EU, the EEA and the agricultural policy of the government. It's not the predators' attack on sheep. I would like to hear – if the Council of State has some speaking time left, and I think he might have – whether he agrees with my view that the research shows that we don't get greater loss of sheep with seven-eight helen flocks within the zone than with three helens within the zone. We have clear research results on this. We know that Norwegian puppies migrate to the east to a great extent, into Sweden in central wolf areas. We also know that it is mostly Swedish Ungulfs who go west and, to say the least, make devilishness in Norwegian sheep herds. I would also say to the Center Party that it may be a bear service to shoot wolves if flocks explode. This is elementary ecological and biological understanding. The pack with the conductive animals in position – I have seen this myself on close quarters many times – is kept together within a territory of 500 – 1000 km2. We know where they are at all times. They are even the best inspectors of the population. Other wolves are not allowed to establish themselves within that territory. What is important in our administration is knowledge, knowledge and knowledge. I could spend the rest of my speaking time repeating it. But that knowledge is to be used to illustrate what we're going to have of viable populations, what's going on at the stock level to achieve viability. It shall explain whether there is a cause for fear and shall be used to describe the ecological role of predators.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1608	I want to follow up with some more facts. Camilla Risvoll, researcher at Nordlandsforschung, has pointed out in his work that predatory game is a prominent and critical factor in reindeer management in Northernland. The access to calves after losses in Northern Ireland and Troms is 39 p.m.-40 p.m. That means that about 60 pst. there are no calves, they are not there. Many of the calves that stay away are left between marking and harvesting, and there is a period when the calves are traditionally very viable. A few more facts: One third of the sheep herds in Northern Ireland are at risk of loss to predatory game within what the Food Authority calls a red zone. Nordland county – and here I would like to stress that it is the county council, not the Nordic centre party, as it has been stamped in a way that it is the centre party that wants to look at the predatory wildlife population and the reduction – has twice in the last few years sent opinions to the climate and environment minister demanding to evaluate the stock targets in order to reduce predatory animal pressure on the grazing industry in Northern Ireland. The Rovvilt topic in Northern Ireland has also given clear messages – also in written form – that the stock targets must be down, both for you, gloat and bear. In addition, there must be a real possibility of extracting eagles that do damage. Note. I'm not saying we're going to open up for eagle hunting. I say it should be possible to take out eagles where it specifically damages grazing animals, the newborn reincalves and the small lambs. To make a small impression: the Eagle Project – that on Fosen? – showed that the eagle took eleven reincalves for a period of time. But what was even more surprising was that the eagle also took nine adults clean. The king eagle is vital, so it must be extracted. The clear messages about the need to facilitate predatory pressures in Northern Ireland are being followed up, including professional assessments. They're thoughtful. With regard to the clear zone management, NINA researcher Odden, in advance of a new management plan in Northern Ireland, said that it is almost impossible in a long, narrow state. In terms of main objectives, the minister says we have a two-part objective. At the same time, the website of all statesmen says that the management of the four great ones is the main goal, and that grazing animals automatically become a secondary goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1623	There's been a lot of questions. I'll try to answer someone. First to Arnstad, it's not like I've pulled a line over the change in hunting hours. What I've said is that there won't be any change in this year, because we need better time to evaluate the recordings and hearing statements that have come in, and I've given a reason for that. So to Sandtrøen: We have to deal with the Stortingen decision on stockpiles, but I have to deal with all of the Stortingen decision, and it is also the Stortingen decision that we should follow the Berne Convention, and that we should follow the Nature Diversity Act. It is the framework within which the administration must take place. Nor can a large number of people oblige the government to break a law that the Storting itself has passed, without amending the law. The framework is there, and it is within which the administration must take place. So to Mossleth, in terms of loss of tamrein, we have to be able to improve the policy so that we continue the reduction in losses that we have, because there has been a reduction of 27 pst. In Norway, there has been a reduction in the loss of domestic animals for predators of 27 p.m. It's the best available numbers that I have. Then the challenge is to continue that work in order to be able to continue that reduction. Yes, it is true that I have received an enquiry from reindeers in Northernland to get there. I have said yes to do so. It'll be a purely practical question when we can get it done. Today, we have eight heroic juveniles. Two of them are already taken out, so then there's six left. There are five border relays, which then have to be counted as one half after the predatory agreement. This will be the basis for the decisions to be taken under the administrations in the future, both the actions of the predators and the decisions to be taken in the ministry. It's not right that sheep eggs in Rendalen are not compensated. They are compensated according to the current legislation that we have. They are not compensated in the same way as on Toten and Hurdalen, but there was a special situation in which pre-clearance for compensation was provided before action was taken against the sheep owners. I think it's a situation that doesn't have to be made a general norm. Then there will be no limits.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1636	The party of progress is part of an agreement on predatory game. We're also part of a deal with wolf management, which is the wolf settlement. It was said earlier that the left now disagrees with increasing the stock target, and was criticised for it. The Progress Party is opposed to reducing it. That's because we're part of a deal, and we actually have respect for the deal we're part of. It is not a secret that the Progress Party would have liked to have seen a more stringent predatory game management in Norway, but once we have reached a settlement, we will deal with that agreement. It's that simple. And I'm assuming that the other parties that are involved in this deal are doing that. I also assume that the government with the Council of State is at the head of the agreement and of the decisions taken by the Stortinget. It's a little interesting to hear the debate on the number of wolves in Norway. It's now said that there are 64 wolves here. Each wolf eats approx. 2,25 kg of meat per day if they are to be able to reproduce. If you take 2.25 kg and multiply by 64 wolves, it's 144 kg per day. If you multiply 365, you get 52 tons of meat a year. It's about some meat. It's about a lot of sheep, it's about some elk, and it's about some deer. So it's all about some game and livestock being wolf food. This is important to bring with it. It's not just the wolf we're talking about here; we're talking about you too – as to those degrees is a predator – and we're talking about bears and gloats, all of which are carnivores. It's important to take with us when we're going to discuss governance. That's why we've made a decision on a stock measure in this house – to be able to keep the stock down to such a level that we take care of all the interests. We need to have a stock of wild game, but it should also be possible to feed both domestic animals and through the industry that landowners around the districts have as part of their livelihood, namely the management through the hunting of deer. If we don't do this in a good way, we're going to get what's been the challenge across the board, a level of conflict that's high and that's going to escalate. It is therefore important that the Ministry and the Council of State do the job they are to do and deal with the decisions taken by the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1645	I have noticed in the debate that many representatives believe that these proposals are drastic proposals for a new predatory policy. No, they're not, because most of the proposals are a follow-up to the looting game comparisons, which today are not followed up by the government. I have also noticed that both the Workers' Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party are concerned that the two-part objective should be given equal consideration. Unfortunately, this is not happening today. Today predators are given priority over grazing animals. It confirmed former State Council Helgesen in reply to a question from the Central Party. So then my question becomes the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party: why can't you join in today at least on proposal No. 1, which just specifies the two-part objective? Many of these proposals are, as I said, not a new policy, but a follow-up to the agreement reached. The Christian People's Party says to follow the goals, but you don't do that today when you look at how many wolves there are. This year, 13 puppy coal was born and the stock target is 4-6. The stock is far above what it should be. When I hear the representative Sandtrøen on the speaker's chair and his commitment to follow up the robberies agreement, I wonder why the Workers' Party cannot participate in the proposals that are just clarifying and following up the looting agreements that have been concluded, and I hope the Workers' Party can give an answer to that. At least the voters in Hedmark are very interested in that. Many hide behind statistics that predators have fallen. If you go to Hedmark or Uppland, you can see that the number of farms has fallen, many because it is such a heavy burden to have grazing animals in predatory areas. It is important to include all the statistics in this debate. Then I heard the representative Ørsal Johansen. It seemed to me that he could vote in favour of all the proposals of the Central Party today, but it is quite clear here that the Advance Party and the Right have had to bow down to the Left in the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1660	We received some answers from the Council of State, and I appreciate that, but I am not quite satisfied. The Councils of State said, among other things: that it was not enough to deal with the Storting's decision on stockpiles, at least as I understood it, he had to deal with all the decisions Stortinget has made, for example. to accede to international conventions and therefore to do nothing. Does this mean that the Council of State believes that the stockpiles of wolves are breaking the Berne Convention? Does that mean that the Council of State has no intention of following up the stock targets at all? I hope he can clarify that. The farmers in Rendalen have been compensated very little in relation to the loss they actually had. They had over 1.3 million. in exceptional expenses incurred as a result of the predatory attack. The government's comment on this was that if they were to be fully compensated, if it had become a general norm to have compensation schemes like in Hadeland, then there would have been no borders. But is it okay that such an attack is made into a general norm? It's not the compensation system that's the problem, it's the attack, which causes the farmers to lose. It should only be lacking that society has not replaced the costs of sheep farmers when they are subjected to extensive predatory attacks that result in extra work, loss of animals, supervision – there are substantial costs for farmers, and I hope that the Council of State will understand and rectify in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1669	The representative, Marit Arnstad, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1674	First, I must be allowed to say that I am constantly surprised when the case rapporteur for a matter is not in the Chamber. I hope that is not an expression that the rapporteur is not interested in the matter for which she is the rapporteur. I just have a little comment. It is unclear from the Council of State when he says here that one can not only take account of young people, but must also take account of the Law of Diversity and the Berne Convention. Does this mean that the Council of State does not recognise the objective set by the Stortinget? We've been through that debate. We have been through the debate on both stock objectives, the preparation of the law, the amendment of the natural diversity law and the relationship with the Berne Convention. The size has been thoroughly reviewed. Is it true that the Council of State considers the changes made to be insufficient? It may seem like the Left, but I'm counting on a government council from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left not to mean it. In this way I think the representative Ørsal Johansen was very clarifying.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1681	The representative Siv Mossleth has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1687	I am pleased that the Council of State is going to Northland, but when the Council of State claims that there has been a reduction in losses, he needs to look more into the details. The resource accounting for the reindeer industry refers to a crisis in the supply of calves following losses in Norway’s very best grazing regions, Northland and Troms. That's 39 pst. and 40 pst. access to calf after loss. It is the lowest share in Norway in Sami reindeer farming. At the same time, the slaughter weight of the Sami domestic farm is the highest in the country. So it's not a bad condition that's the basis for this crisis in reindeer operations. I want to say something about gaupa: the stock numbers are too low. We can refer to weaknesses in the documentation of family groups. The Council of State will be able to hear more about this when he comes to Northland.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1694	There is a need to nuance a little bit of the debate that the Central Party is drawing up. I understand the need to use the opportunity. When you have everyone against you, you have a great opportunity. In 2016, a small number of sheep were injured by wolves in the wolf zone. This is probably an example of how the administration and the comparisons work. If you look at the replacement figures for the last ten years, they show a huge decline. So there's no doubt that an active predatory game management and zones are working. The big challenge in terms of the number of losses is in my areas, where we don't have a wolf zone, but where you can say that there's wolf on the way. It happened last year, on Totenåsen and in Hurdal, it has happened in Skåbu and in Ringebu. It's a challenge we have to live with, that's the unforeseeable we have. Therefore, it is important that we also have good hunting teams and methods to extract predators where there are no zones, for example. for wolves. In Uppland, the yerven is the big challenge. It's also the one that takes the most sheep in total. Jerv and glope account for more than half of the predators' losses. Another side of this debate is that it's not just predators that take. The biggest losses are the second. As far as you're concerned, previous sinking of sheep in the york areas has been very successful. That is the kind of action we need to continue to develop. The representative Sandra Borch said that the number of farms in operation in Uppland is falling. Yes — the decline has now stopped considerably, as the agricultural economy has clearly improved. It's a little bit more optimism, there's more kids who want to take over. It is definitely not because of predators that the uses become standing empty. There are generational challenges; there are noble people who will not take over. It's very small because of predators. There are completely different challenges one faces in agriculture than just this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1707	I'll try to answer something more. The first is that when I say that the loss of tamrein has decreased by 27 pst, it's related to the national numbers. I don't know the variation in Norway, I need more information about that. It is clear that the sheep owners who have lost will have compensation. We have good compensation schemes in Norway, and they have been improved over time. So to the representative Arnstad: the Berne Convention and the Nature Diversity Act are about more than just population size, they're about one having to have a reason for withdrawals. The reason for withdrawals must be present within the law we have. Then the framework for the administration of these three are: the Berne Convention, the Nature Diversity Act and the decisions of the 2011 Robbery Agreement – and the decision on wolves taken by a majority later. Within those limits, management shall take place. It's my job to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1716	The representative Arne Nävra has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1721	I still have the keywords of knowledge, knowledge and knowledge on the block here. The one who made me react a little bit was the representative Ørsal Johansen from the Advancement Party, who summed up the number of tons of meat, where he mentioned the most sheep, but there was also some elk, he thought. Of course, the wolf is meat eaters, you never get a wolf to become a vegan, that's not possible. But the wolf doesn't take sheep, at least not the Norwegian wolf. It's the wolf that's doing the least damage, we know that. I didn't get the council to answer the question of what it meant to have three or seven flocks within the zone – but it has to be. What I want to point out is that we're probably the corner of the world that's the richest, at the same time we're the corner of the world that shares the least game with our fellow creatures, that is. the predators. Think about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1730	The representative Emilie Enger Mehl has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1735	The representative Kjeseth has a different starting point, a different reality, than at least that I experience. He talked about the wolf on the road – it happened once in 2016 – and that the wolf zone is working. Has the representative, Kjenseth, really thought that someone lives in the wolf zone? They'll probably describe it in a completely different way. These are the ones who have taken the consequences of having the wolf close to each other all the time – not only when the representative Kjeseth experiences it when it comes to a wolf on the way in Uppland. The representative Nävra has put great emphasis on knowledge, and I'm also concerned about knowledge. He has been concerned that there has never been such little loss to predators in the wolf zone as now, and that the wolf almost does not take sheep. Why? I don't think that's because the wolf doesn't like to get wool in his mouth, that's because there's no sheep left in the wolf zone. People have stopped sheep, because it doesn't work with sheep when there's so much wolf.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1742	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1758	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1767	Today, newborns are examined for 23 rare and serious congenital diseases. This is called the neonatal screening. It is a voluntary scheme based on informed parental consent. As children usually do not show any signs of disease at birth, testing is the only possibility to detect those diseases early enough to receive treatment. This gives us the opportunity to start effective treatment quickly and thus prevent the adverse effects of the disease. Once the analysis has been completed, the rest of the blood sample, which is a stain of blood on a physical filter card, is stored at the premises of the New Birth Screening at the Rikshospitalet. It is stored in a freezer. This storage makes it possible to repeat the study in case of doubt as to the diagnosis being made, but it also makes it possible to supplement other studies that were not available at the time of birth. The samples may also be used for quality assurance and the development of new methods of analysis. This is important in order to improve investigations. In addition, if one is approved by the Regional Ethical Committee for Medical Research, the biobank may be used for research projects. Today the samples must be deleted after six years. With this amendment to the law, these samples will be stored without a time limit. This will improve the ability of screening to use samples for quality control and method development. The diseases screened for are very rare. Therefore, in order to develop tests in a good way, more than six years of coal is needed to obtain a large enough patient base. The proposition shows that severe combined immunodeficiency is one example of such a rare disease. It was also introduced in the screening as late as this year. Each year it is born approximately once a year. two children in Norway with this disease. In six years the neonatal screening will therefore only have 12 samples, which are again spread over at least 40–50 different pathogens. Therefore, opening up permanent storage will be essential to improve the screening of the rarest diseases, so that patients can also receive the best possible health care. It is a pity, therefore, that there are some misunderstandings in this matter. Newborn screening biobank is not a DNA registry. There should still be only a few of the samples being tested, the remaining samples stored without any information on DNA. It is also not relevant to discuss whether blood samples stored in a freezer can be subjected to a hacker attack. Prior to the examination, it will still be possible for parents to refuse the storage of the samples in addition to the storage necessary to carry out the examination. Consent to retain the blood samples may be withdrawn at any time, even after the examination has been carried out. At the same time, there is a need to improve the privacy of the screening system. This is done by sending information to all parents about the possibility of withdrawing consent one to two years after birth. The same information shall be provided to parents and children when the child reaches the age of 16. If the samples are to be used for research, it is not the law we are changing today that is being used. The use of the tests for medical or health research remains governed by the Health Research Act. No changes are being proposed to this Bill in Stortinget at this time, and it has not been notified. In addition, parents must be informed in advance that the tests are to be used for research purposes so as to allow them, where appropriate, to reserve themselves against such use. So a use other than newborn screening is consent-based. The right is therefore pleased that today there is a majority of these changes, which will improve neonatal screening, but also enhance the privacy of the persons involved. As I said, there has been a debate on privacy on the occasion of this case. That is why we have put ourselves behind a loose proposal, which I would like to raise now. It reads as follows: ‘The government is asked, by the end of this ageing period, to exercise administrative and information responsibilities relating to the registry of the neonatal screening and which adequately respects the privacy, the system and the right to reservation after the age of 16.’;» I hope that the parties who disagree with the amendment can support our proposal in a subsidiary way. It would have been nice if we could agree on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1793	The representative of Sveinung Stensland has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1798	All births in Norway are offered an investigation into whether the child has 1 out of 25 serious hereditary diseases. These are diseases that are easier to treat if they are detected early. Newborn screening is a diagnostic biobank, and the blood samples are given for medical diagnosis. The neonatal screening has great confidence in the population, and so to speak, everyone meets with their child and gives blood tests. Now the government is putting the entire newborn screening at risk by opening up for permanent storage of the blood samples taken in the neonatal screening. Oslo University Hospital, responsible for neonatal screening, states that they do not need to store the samples beyond the age of 10, possibly 16 years. But the department does not listen and suggests permanent storage, without a time limit. The government itself reveals why in the proposition: it is not to improve newborn screening, but to make the blood tests later useful for research. It is not wrong to want to create a national biobank for research, but then it must be made open, and not camouflaged as an improvement in newborn screening. The criticism of the way this is done is clear. The Data Protection Authority believes that the proposal does not adequately reveal the ethical and privacy challenges that need to be discussed before establishing a national biobank with blood samples from the entire population of Norway. They also say that it is not discussed whether we as a society accept the risk by collecting all the blood samples for the inhabitants in one place, thus facilitating the next generation of a national DNA registry. It is also not discussed whether the need for such a register is a matter of fundamental rights and freedom for the population. External trusts are not discussed. The legislative proposal does not take into account the fact that health care and research are two different objectives and that it is only the last objective that requires eternal storage. Data protection disadvantages are negligible when the objective is health care, but when the objective is research, there are entirely different requirements for the protection of individual rights before it can be concluded that social benefits clearly outweigh the privacy consequences for individuals. The centre batch may be used to extend the storage time for neonatal screening by 10 to 15 years, in line with the needs of the screening, but this is not what is proposed. In our view, the question of establishing a national research biobank must be discussed as a separate legislative proposal. The centre party calls for a debate focusing on the privacy of the baby and the child, the right of self-determination of the individual citizen and the right of each individual to assess whether it is safe and justifiable to give his or her child the DNA to a national biobank for research purposes. The size should be more honest that the need for eternal storage or storage for an indefinite period is only justified by the fact that this is useful for research purposes. Preventive health care is perceived by most people as necessary, but it is, and should be, up to the individual to decide whether one on behalf of his or her child wants to give a blood sample to a national biobank for research purposes. We are calling for a debate in which questions are asked about the ethical defence of the state to decide that we maintain something that we consider valuable for research purposes, because we have already collected this material for a completely different purpose, simply lifesaving, preventive health care for newborns. We call for a debate on what happens with confidence in the neonatal screening if parents realize that by meeting up to the test, they at the same time accept research on the child forever. These are the reasons why the Central Party is today going to vote against proposals for the amendment of the Biobank Act, and for the same reason we want to vote in favour of the clarifications that strengthen the privacy interests of the loose proposals in the case – both that of the Christian People's Party and that of the pluralist parties Right, the Progress Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1815	Almost all mothers and children are in the neonatal screening. That's good and important. It will reveal early whether the child has a hereditary disease, so that treatment and help can start immediately. They're in, and they're still reporting, because they know that the purpose is to help their children, and that the blood samples with DNA are treated safely – and not stored forever. Now, with the support of the Workers' Party, the government will transform its purpose and have it as a research base where biological material containing DNA from almost every person born in Norway is to be stored. DNA samples from all of Norway's population should not even be erased when we die – the DNA base over us all should be stored forever, at least as long as one clears. There has, of course, been great resistance from the professional community to the proposal, which is an attack on the purpose of newborn screening – to help sick children – and an attack on privacy. Oslo University Hospital, Health Directorate, Data Protection Agency, Norwegian Medical Association, Biotechnology Council, University of Oslo, Medical Faculty – Centres for Medical Ethics, Norwegian Immunodeficiency Association, Norwegian PKU Association, Norwegian Church and – those we really should listen to here, the National Treatment Service Reference Group for Newborn and Advanced Laboratory Diagnostics in Congenital Metabolic Diseases – are all opposed to the proposal. The good trade unions are opposed to this proposal. Still, you won't listen. SV is for research. We're also for extended storage time, but we're to do it wisely and thoroughly, based on the professional advice. Today the blood tests are destroyed after six years, but new technology allows us to get important information even after six years. The values of the samples may be up to 16 years. It offers new opportunities to find new information and to follow developments over time. It's just this Newborn screening itself asking for. A research bank may be wise, but then it must be dealt with more thoroughly than this, for a clearly modified purpose, a separate matter, it must be limited in storage time, and that storage time must be based on knowledge and needs. As a party, SV has a proud tradition of taking the fight for privacy and our legal security. Many of my party veterans were themselves monitored by the state. We know how important it is to set limits on the power of the state in order to ensure personal freedom. Building up a database that provides access to DNA from all of Norway's population is unwise. SV will vote in favour of a law on research, but only if the samples are destroyed after 16 years, so we don't get a bank with blood samples of DNA from all of Norway's population. Because our proposal is going to fall – as it is announced – we will vote against the law. I would like to take up the SV's proposal with this, and I would like to inform you that we will vote in favour of the Christian People's Party's loose proposals. So we believe that it is very good that the government parties now see the need to change course, following strong criticism from among others. Central Party, Christian People's Party and SV. We will support their loose proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1832	The representative Nicholas Wilkinson has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1837	I'm familiar with the presidency's scepticism for using props on this pulpit, but today's theme, neonatal screening, is best illustrated by showing this card – a 23 x 11 cm cardboard piece that adds up to 3 microlitres of blood from a newborn child in five rings on the top of the sheet. This sheet contains biochemical material that is analysed shortly after birth, i.e. not a DNA. The card is frozen after the test. About one in a thousand children in Norway are born with one of the 25 – not 23 – states in the screening panel. The screening is carried out only after written consent, and close to 100 pst. the parents accept the testing. The neonatal screening is a very successful medical innovation that has saved many children from suffering and, in some cases, premature death. Annually, between 50 and 100 families in Norway are deeply indebted to the work of the Department of the National Hospital. Only in very few cases will the blood be sequenced to produce the genetic material. As has been said, today's debate is about whether it is possible to hold such a card for more than 16 years. I fully support those members of the Committee who believe that storing the cards without a time limit raises ethical issues, but I do not share the fear that these cards could help to develop a Norwegian biobank where the genome of each citizen born in Norway can be stored. Until then, the consent procedures and our legislation are very precise, precisely in order to avoid abuse. In addition, the cost of a total sequencing today is approximately. $1,000 a sample. Although it is true that costs have been falling sharply in recent years, overall monitoring is, in any case, a very demanding task — and probably extremely low cost-effective to build up a digitalised DNA register. The newborn screening is far from the only treatment biobank we have in Norway. I don't think there are any people today who know the exact figure for these, but in Sweden there are 450 of them, after a count done recently. To the best of your knowledge, it is not linked to the same strict requirements for the storage of these that are now proposed for the neonatal screening. As stated by the representative of Stensland, the representatives of the Government Parties in the Health and Welfare Committee will present a resolved proposal asking the Government to clarify the rules on administrative, data protection and information responsibilities relating to the storage of the cards. In a recent conversation with the Newborn screening at the Rikshospitalet, I was concerned that the biochemical material might be transferred to other institutions after 10–16 years, and that other than the Newborn screening would have the right to ownership of the samples. There's a concern I think there's reason to take seriously and to the Council of State to notice. In the debate that has taken place, it has been stated that Sweden – which has for a long time stored similar material in a so-called PKU bank – used the test to a suspected person after the murder of Sweden’s Foreign Minister in 2003 to find a match between this and the DNA material on the knife used during the attack. The procedure led to strong debate in Sweden and resulted in two major public investigations to assess the consistent use of the screening cards. The last investigation resulted in a recommendation to deny any such use of the cards by criminals. As far as I can see, this is a far-reaching expression of a legal state we already have in Norway. However, there is first and foremost reason to note that the testing carried out in Sweden was not a mass sequencing of the cards in the PKU base, but a drawing of one card based on information about a suspected person. This test also seems to me to be very unnecessary, since the police already sent the samples to the United Kingdom for analysis had got DNA from the suspect – without going the way about the PKU cards. As I interpret our Norwegian legal status, such use of material from the neonatal screening could not be allowed. A 2006 Supreme Court judgment following the Novas case also emphasises that Norwegian legislation has very strict rules on uniformity of use. It is also worth mentioning that any use for research on biochemical samples will in any case require the active consent of the person concerned. Once the experience from Sweden has been gained, it must also be mentioned that the PKU base was used in a very effective way to identify deaths after the tsunami in Southeast Asia in 2004. There's a use I guess there'll be a broad consensus in the Norwegian population to allow in similar circumstances.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1858	We all agree that neonatal screening is important. Detecting serious illness and ensuring the right to timely treatment are incredibly important for a sick child. But the Christian People's Party fears that the decision of the Storting today in this matter weakens the newborn screening instead of strengthening it. The neonatal screening at Oslo University Hospital does not want permanent storage. Nevertheless, it is proposed and adopted. The Christian People's Party fears that confidence in the program can now be weakened. If people start to say no, it may have the consequence that sick kids are actually not caught, because the trust has been destroyed for this. The government proposes and the Stortinget adopts a proposal that involves the creation of a national biobank with biological material from almost all of Norway's population, obtained when we are in the most vulnerable situation, and we accept that we have had a child and we would like to see diseases for which good treatment can be provided. Where, then, is there a risk of misuse of privacy, ownership of the material? All of this needs to be investigated and assessed if you should be able to rely on this. Heavy hearing bodies ask for investigation and strongly warn against this. I'm really quite surprised that the government now, with a huge majority, will adopt this without looking at an investigation. The Christian People's Party also strongly responds to the government suggesting that samples already taken, with the consent of storage for six years, are now stored for all future purposes if the parents do not withdraw their consent. It is an important principle that the consideration of individuals must always take precedence over the interests of society. Authorities may not require access to the biological material of individuals, but active consent may be given to granting access. So we believe that the government's proposal violates such a prerequisite for active consent, and we cannot see that the government in the proposition proves such an intervention in the individual's privacy and rights. The Christian People's Party believes that blood samples collected during the six-year period of destruction must be destroyed after six years, as the parents have agreed. If the blood samples are to be stored for more than six years, the Christian People's Party believes that active consent must be regained. The Christian People's Party believes that the right to require destruction in combination with information measures does not safeguard the individual's privacy. It is consented for six years of storage. Any storage beyond six years shall require new active consent. The Christian People's Party does not support the government's proposal to amend the Biobanks Act that provides permanent storage of the blood samples in the neonatal screening, and therefore we will vote against it. But we also have a loose proposal that I would like to quote, proposal No. 4: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that parents who have consented to the storage of blood samples prior to the entry into force of the Act actively consent to the permanent storage of biological material obtained in the genetic screening of newborns for serious hereditary diseases.’ In addition, we will support the proposal of the Right, the Advance Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1876	The representative of Olaug V. Bollestad has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1881	The Government has proposed that the blood samples taken in the neonatal screening be stored without a time limit. The purpose of storing the blood samples is primarily to facilitate the proper conduct of neonatal screening. Another reason why we want to store the blood samples is that they can be used for medical and health research, so that we can get better knowledge of why we get sick, and develop better diagnostics and better treatment methods. For example, blood samples taken just after birth provide the opportunity to study factors in children who later develop a serious disease, and we can develop more personalised treatment for rare and serious diseases. The government believes that the benefits of storing the blood samples exceed the privacy challenges. We believe that blood samples can potentially be of great value for the implementation and extension of neonatal screening and for other medical and health research. Although the biological material may give rise to genetic information on the individual, it is important to stress that genetic information on all newborns should not be collected and stored. Of the vast majority of newborns, only biochemical samples are taken. However, if these tests suspect a serious disease, genetic testing is carried out. I believe that it is not enough to extend the storage period to 16 years, for which part of the committee is in favour. Such a solution will not fully exploit the large potential of the tests for medical research. Nor is it a good solution to demand active consent from the child when he or she reaches the age of 16. There is reason to believe that it may be difficult to obtain such consent from a sufficient number. This need not be an expression that those who do not respond are opposed to storage. Many do not respond to such enquiries for reasons other than that they do not wish to consent to storage. In reality, such an active consent requirement may be the same as a limitation of storage time to 16 years. Some hearing bodies are concerned that the proposal may weaken confidence in the neonatal screening. This may mean that some parents will not allow the child to be examined because they are unsure about what the blood sample can be used for. Most parents are concerned about doing what is best for their children, and the government believes that there is little danger that parents choose not to examine the child for this reason. The parents shall be provided with good information on what the samples may be used for and on the possibility of withdrawing their consent and requiring the sample to be destroyed. Parents shall also be clearly informed that there will be no consequences for the health care of the child if parents do not agree to the permanent storage of the blood sample. The proposal has also been criticised for obtaining consent shortly after birth — in a situation where parents are most concerned with other things than the question of storing blood samples. The government has proposed that parents be reminded of the possibility to withdraw consent and require the destruction of blood samples between one and two years after birth. This information is to be sent to each parent, e.g. via SMS and healthnorge.no alert. So parents should get information before the blood sample is taken, and one year later. When the child reaches the age of 16, he or she will also receive information. It shall be easy to have the sample destroyed. Today we destroy the blood samples in the neonatal screening after six years. That means that we throw away valuable material -- a source of knowledge that can save lives and provide better treatment for many diseases. The government wants to do something about this. I am therefore very pleased that the majority in the Grand Duchy today adopts a change in law that allows for the permanent storage of blood samples, but also adopts a better regime around neonatal screening, which, in my opinion, just strengthens privacy compared to what is the situation today. Today, samples will be deleted after six years, but in the new regime, parents will receive a reminder one to two years after the neonatal screening on the possibility of reservation. Young people themselves will be informed about this at the age of 16. It will provide a completely different opportunity to actively use the reservation facility that exists today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1903	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1908	The council itself said in its intervention that consent is given in a vulnerable situation where parents prefer to think about other things. This is also the case in today's situation when a sign on the form. Then the solution to the council is that one after one to two years will have a reminder and the possibility to withdraw. My question is whether the Council of State will not make the vulnerable situation less vulnerable by parents, for example: during pregnancy control, information about this form is given, that a person is not first presented in the birthplace after a birth, so that one was more prepared for the consent of an actual giver, and that one does not simply make it easier to withdraw from it afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1913	In this area, we've just chosen to continue what's today's system, and then we've reinforced it through what's now available, that parents get a reminder after one to two years that they can withdraw their consent through a reservation. That way, we think that we give parents a bigger chance. I feel well that the vast majority of parents want the very test to rule out these diseases, and that reservation will primarily be about post-storage. There is something that you have time to decide after the test has been taken, and after some time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1918	I have another question, and it concerns the proposal of the Christian People's Party. One gives this promised retroactive power, so that for parents who have signed up for storage for diagnostic purposes, the storage should be permanent without any new consent being set up. I would like to ask if the Council of State did not think that the proposal of the Christian People's Party is reasonable, that we give the laws retroactive force, but that one should then require the consent of the parents who have previously given consent for a completely different purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1923	I believe that it is reasonable to give these parents the same opportunity as any other parent, namely an opportunity to withdraw their consent. It will provide a few information about and the possibility of, and that means that if you are against the storage, a consent may be withdrawn. If we went out and asked for new active consent, we would actually come up with the same problem that an active consent at 16 years of age implies, namely that there is good reason to believe that quite a lot of people had not responded to it, not because they were against permanent storage, but for many other reasons. It again reduced the value of the registry.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1928	In the hearing, Oslo University Hospital, Health Directorate, Data Protection Agency, Norwegian Medical Association, Biotechnology Council, University of Oslo, Medical Ethics Centre at the Faculty of Medicine, Norwegian Immunodeficiency Association, Norwegian PKU Association, Norwegian Church and National Medical Screening Service Reference Group for Newborn Skeptical to the Government’s desire to adopt. Several in the hearing supported SV’s proposal to open up extended storage to 16 years. SV wants extended storage. So the Council of State said in its statement that the benefits outweigh the privacy challenges. I am very pleased that the Council of State acknowledges that there are privacy challenges here, but I also wonder whether the Council of State can say what concrete benefits it is that counterbalances these privacy challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1933	The concrete advantage is the basis for medical research and quality assurance that storage beyond 16 years of age provides. It is quite right that the quality assurance of newborn screening as it is today, with the methods currently in use, would be ensured with extended storage to 16 years. But I'm pretty convinced that as you approach the 16th year limit, the medical development of the neonatal screening would very likely have meant that there was a need for an extension beyond 16 years, and one had the same discussion then. In addition, storage beyond 16 years will provide a completely different basis for medical research, not least for the smallest patient groups. The government is working on a strategy related to the rare diseases. It is clear that for rare diseases there is a need for long-term storage in order to have a large enough patient population to carry out both quality assurance and medical research. It could mean a permanent storage.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1940	I thank the Council of State for the answer. If I understand correctly, we may need an extension beyond 16 years once in the future. Then SV would like to be willing to discuss it, but we can't discuss that we might get a need and open up for it once in the future. It is not a concrete positive advantage that balances privacy concerns. So the Council of State said that there is a basis for medical research and quality assurance. That's what outside this building is called political language. I ask again: What concrete benefits outweigh privacy considerations? SV wants extended storage, and we have said that we can vote in favour of this law if it had been tighter in terms of the destruction of samples. We're willing to look at this, but we haven't heard anything concrete about who needs storage beyond 16 years. For this reason, I ask the Council of State once more: can SV be informed of one or more concrete advantages that outweigh the privacy challenge to which the Council of State itself referred?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1947	It may well be that SV believes that medical research is a politician’s language. I don't mean it. Medical research is essential for the development of new treatment methods. Not least, as I pointed out in my previous answer, we have some patient groups that are small, simply because they have rare diseases. They already face challenges in reducing medical research into their diseases because they are more complex. SV would like to call these patients political language involvement. I have a real commitment to those patients, and introducing permanent storage involves a greater possibility of solving medical questions related to their disease. This means that there is a greater possibility of quality assurance of the diagnostic tools currently in the neonatal screening process which, hopefully, will come. SV has to label this as a politician's language. I think this is a real commitment to patients who need better treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1952	The Council of State gives many practical arguments that it is a good idea to do this, but I support the arguments that it is of great benefit to the community that the principle of privacy is being ignored, and that the rights of the individual are not so important only the objective of the community is being respected. Does the Council of State really feel that it is more important to safeguard the community than the privacy of the individual?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1957	No, no, no. That is why it is not right, as the representative claims, that privacy is overlooked in this matter. On the contrary, in my opinion privacy is strengthened. Data protection can be properly protected in ways other than through complete deletion, including: through a more active follow-up of those who have given their consent, better booking information, simpler booking options. I believe that strengthens privacy in this area. We need to be aware that some of the background for this matter to appear at all is that the tests have been stored beyond regulated time because the professional communities realized that they had a strong need to have these tests. I believe that it involves a significantly greater privacy challenge that it happened. Therefore, I believe that this is a completely necessary cleanup that establishes a better regime and greater security around each one of us, so that we can have the opportunity to handle what is our right, namely a right to reservation if a change in the view of storage along the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1963	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1968	The government is proposing changes to the treatment biobanking law. I believe that the matter is well informed in this debate by both the case rapporteur, the Council of State which has submitted the proposal, and more. Of course, the Labour Party will continue the amazing thing that we have built up a screening offer for newborns in Norway over many years – which enables early knowledge to save lives and provide treatment, and which brings great benefits to these children when it comes to serious illness. It's important to insist, I think, that access to research on this biological material will be as strictly regulated as today. No changes are proposed in the proposal that change it. It was said in the debate here that the concern for individuals must always be ahead of the interests of society. Well, almost all the medical treatments have been developed because individuals have said: Yes, you can research the material I have provided in connection with healthcare. This is how our society has been able to build a good, common healthcare service for the treatment of disease, damage and suffering that helps just individuals. We in the Labour Party support the proposed amendment of the law, and we will also vote in favour of loose proposal No. 3, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1979	Privacy is incredibly important for the Advance Party, we are committed to ensuring the privacy of the individual. I believe that the offer of newborn screening that we have is incredibly good and important, and that it is important to have confidence in those who actually say yes to this. I think you should listen to what the council says, that this is something that actually strengthens and cleans up a part of what has been. I am very pleased that the government parties have now made a proposal – which is supported by the Workers' Party – that concerns precisely privacy, which many are concerned about. It is important, and it is important to provide information on the scheme and the right to reserve even after the age of 16 years – as contained in the proposal. I am very happy that this actually means that one should be informed one to two years later, which gives parents the opportunity to say no to the information being stored. When you become 16, you should also get a chance by actively contacting someone to say that this information has been stored, and it is up to you if you want to keep the information. For its own part and for the Advancement Party, it is important to look at the opportunities available to help people to recover or to research to ensure that in the future people with different types of disease can be helped. That is what underlies this case. That is why I am pleased that data protection is now well maintained, while at the same time we also take care of what is actually important: to be able to help children who get sick, and to get information that can ensure that in the future you can provide even better health care.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1988	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e1993	As politicians, we have a special responsibility to speak up this newborn screening. I think we all agree on that, and I am pleased with the relatively low-level debate we have had here, which does not allow for large headlines in the newspapers. It was something else when the representative Wilkinson called this proposal ‘the worst nightmare for everyone concerned with privacy’, in the VG quite recently. In this case, Denmark has been living in this nightmare since 1982 and Sweden since 1975. I also register that SV now sets a best pre-limit for this nightmare. SV goes in to keep these tests until you're 16 years old. Of course, if you have resources, you are interested and have the law on your part, you can create a rebank for the Norwegian population up to 16 years. There is nothing in the way of that, except for the reservations I have mentioned. I notice that the Data Protection Authority is sceptical about this – as the representative Wilkinson rightly said – and that is of course something we have to take seriously. However, in a newspaper interview, a representative of the Data Protection Authority said that she felt ‘it must be possible to guarantee that the material is not being diverted or used contrary to the wishes of the donor and society.’ In that case, the Data Protection Authority would be able to accept this. Of course, that's okay, because that's what we're proposing today to adopt. The representative, Toppe, said this would weaken the confidence in the neonatal screening. I do not agree with that. On the contrary, I believe that the decision we are making today will lead to that the importance of newborn screening will be strongly prioritised in the future. It will have a much greater significance in research, as it has been mentioned. What kind of research is this about? In Denmark, significant progress has been made in disorders such as autism, bipolar disorder, schizophrenia and other mental disorders, and research is now being carried out on cancer, infectious diseases and neurological diseases, probably on an individual basis, just to meet the representative of Bollestad. It's diseases that affect individuals, not society as a whole, we're also talking about here.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2004	I was just thinking of correcting a little misunderstanding. The left thought it was so strange that SV wanted storage for 16 years. It's simply because the Newborn screening itself, those who administer this, have asked for storage for 16 years. The destruction of the tests after that means that you don't get a bank with blood and thus DNA from all of Norway's population, which is the same council that very many have given in their answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2009	This is a very important matter, which has a very important role to play in future health. By saying yes to saving blood, we will enable future researchers to develop medicines or other methods to treat a number of diseases. In 10, 20 or 30 years, we politicians today are going to see us in the mirror, look back and know that the election and the decision we are making today have helped to strengthen the health of the future. The worst thing that can happen is that the people of the future turn around and say, "Why did you prevent us from getting rid of diseases or getting medicines that could benefit us?" With regard to privacy: this is something to be stored physically and not in a database. The representative from the left showed how to store it. Of course, employees who work in that particular department may be able to find such a test and exploit it in a way, but already today many health professionals can access personal data. That risk will always be there, but we also need to trust the individual. We have to have the utmost confidence in whoever's working out. Then, of course, we have to have control functions that take care of security. In the past, SV has called for increased efforts to develop public medicine in Norway — in the light of the Spinraza discussion. By refusing to store blood samples, they also refuse to allow Norwegian researchers to develop medicines that can be produced in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2024	The representative Carl-Erik Grimstad has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2029	I just want to add that I have talked to the Newborn screening about this and about the concerns they have. I have already mentioned that in my first post. The fact that the neonatal screening is not concerned with the storage of material over 10 years has just to do with the fact that there is a neonatal screening – there are bounds for newborns – and that they are particularly concerned about where this material is to be stored. It is obvious that the ownership of this material is something we need to assess, and hence the proposal that we – the Right, the Advance Party and the Left – have promoted today, as a loose proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2034	The representative Nicholas Wilkinson has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2040	Sorry, we have to clean it up again. It's quite right as Erlend Larsen from the Right says, that SV is concerned with drugs like Spinraza, but claiming that SV says no to the development of drugs because we don't want a biobank, is a pretty extreme statement. There are many medicines in Norway, new drugs are being developed every day. I haven't heard of one of the drugs being developed on the basis of a biobank. We can agree that there may be some exciting research. But when one claims that a party says no to the development of drugs because we are in favour of privacy as the professional experts, among other things. Oslo University Hospital, Data Protection, the Biotechnology Council and all the others we've already mentioned agree with SV in, it's a pretty extreme accusation to say that you're against the development of drugs.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2049	I was actually going to say exactly the same thing as the representative Nicholas Wilkinson. I thought it was an unnecessary criticism that came to the end, that the party that is voting against this law today is against future research and new physicians in Norway. That's to draw this well far. I would like to make it clear that the reason why the Central Party is voting against is what has been said, among other things. by the Data Protection Authority - that is the way this is done. If one wanted to change the purpose of collecting these blood samples, it should have been produced in a separate law and not camouflaged as an improvement in newborn screening. That is the point, and I ask for that to be respected, and that we are not added to other intentions when we vote against this proposal. Make a proposal to create a national biobank for research purposes, and we'll take that debate. But that is not the debate we have been presented for, and that is why we must vote against this proposal today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2058	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2074	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five series of replies be given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2083	The Ministry of Health and Health proposes in the proposed proposal amendments to the Medicines Act. The proposal deals with the legal bases for fees and charges in the field of medicinal products and with a restriction on the right to appeal against decisions on a pre-authorised reimbursement of medicinal products. These proposals have been at public consultation. The Committee has no specific comments on the amendments proposed by the Medicines Act with regard to the legal bases for fees and charges. As regards the right to appeal by decision on a pre-authorised reimbursement, it is proposed to amend the pharmaceutical law so that it will no longer be possible to appeal against the professional discretion on the basis of which the Medical Products Agency has decided to include medicinal products in the prescription system. After the proposed change, it will only be possible to complain about procedural errors. This means that the professional judgement of the Agency will not be subject to review by any other than a court of law. The reasons for the proposal are that the Ministry does not consider that it has sufficient professional competence to review the professional judgements of the Agency and that it would be relatively resource-intensive to establish competence in this area. On this issue, the Hearing Officers have been divided and the Committee has been divided. The majority of the Committee, who are the members of the Labour Party, the Right, the Progress Party and the Left, consider the matter to be balanced against the significant cost of building up the competence of the Ministry, the legal certainty of industry and the trust of society in administration will be adequately safeguarded by the fact that the application of law and the procedure cannot be appealed against. The majority prioritise the use of resources for the most effective procedure to ensure that the objective of using new medicinal products is followed up as quickly as possible. The majority believe that this is in the patient's interest. Minor numbers ended up with the opposite setting. With this, I present the matter with the proposals that are in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2098	Today, the Stortinge will adopt a proposal from the Government to restrict the right to appeal to the Agency for its decisions on the use of a medicinal product for use in the manufacture of a prescription. Under today's legislation, it is possible to complain about all aspects of such a decision. The Ministry of Health and Health would like to amend the pharmaceutical law so that a person can no longer complain about the professional evaluations of the Medical Products Agency, for example. on the relationship between the benefits and costs of a medicinal product. Thus, only procedural errors or incorrect use of laws and regulations can be filed with the Department. The body of the centre is inconsistent with the government, which will eliminate the possibilities for substance testing and quality assurance of the decisions of the Medical Products Agency. We suggest that the government submit a new scheme that will allow the professional evaluation of the Swedish Medical Products Agency to be reviewed. The general principle that all decisions taken in the administration should be subject to review is in breach of the law. This happens at the same time as, in my view, there has been a development in the pharmaceutical policy where power is more concentrated and several decisions are taken behind closed doors. Through the notification of medicinal products and prioritisation, Stortinget has given the Swedish Medical Products Agency a great deal of power over the pharmaceutical policy. It's a responsibility. I think that will sharpen the Medical Products Agency if they know that there is a possibility that they can be put in cards. I am owed by a medical officer in Right, Sveinung Stensland, today's Medisin to speak the pharmaceutical industry's case in this matter because we want to maintain today's appeal. It's a pretty special debt. I could as well have been guilty of speaking the Health Directorate's case and of speaking the University of Tromsø's case – they're also critical of this change. I understand that the pharmaceutical industry is concerned about this. This may mean that companies are given reimbursement decisions which could otherwise have been overreached. But I have also been contacted by several patient groups who have stuck their head in the wall against the Medical Products Agency, and which I think has a good case. It may be especially important for small patient groups where decisions are taken on an uncertain basis of knowledge, and where there is a great deal of room for professional understanding. The government believes that one would be required to build up more bureaucracy if there were to be a real complaint about the professional evaluations of the Medical Products Agency, and that we do not have bodies today that have the necessary competence to try them out. We're supposed to be in the setting to argue to build a new body that has such a competence, and that there's a wrong use of resources. But it is also such that using the judicial system as a review body will require resources. Many, as I said, are critical of the removal of appeals, and several of the hearing authorities indicate that it is possible to establish an alternative appeal body without leading to more bureaucracy. The Health Directorate says right away that they recommend that we take a closer look at how such an alternative can work. The University of Tromsø points out that professional competence in the existing professional environment can be used for substance testing and quality assurance in a new body. For this reason, we are in favour of a proposal asking the government to give its opinion and to propose a system to ensure that professional knowledge and priority decisions in the field of medicinal products can be subject to substantive testing and quality assurance. We're voting against Section 6, fifth paragraph, second sentence. Or we're going to vote for the other changes in the proposition. I refer to proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2117	The representative Kjersti Toppe has drawn up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2122	The Agency is a professional and supervisory authority in the field of medicinal products. The Agency is currently financed mainly by fees and sectoral fees paid by the medicinal products actors. The Agency’s responsibilities and tasks are changed over time. Therefore, in order to function properly, the formal basis for fees and sectoral charges from time to time must be adapted to the changed circumstances. One of the tasks of the Agency is to decide on a pre-authorised reimbursement of medicinal products. These reimbursement decisions have a major impact on public health, on the pharmaceutical industry and on the social economy in general. The management of the area is subject to considerable requirements. Reimbursement proceedings require considerable and specialised competence in several disciplines. This is established at the department of the Swedish Medical Products Agency. The Ministry of Health and Health does not have that kind of competence and should not have that kind of point competence either. In my opinion, the regulation of the role and responsibilities of the Board of Appeal when handling the reimbursement decisions must take this into account. I am pleased that the Health and Welfare Committee has unanimously joined in the proposal to amend the provisions of the Medicines Act on fees and sectoral charges. The legislative proposal provides for the basis for fees and sectoral fees in the field of medicinal products to be adapted to the current tasks of the National Agency for Medicinal Products and the Ministry of Finance’s circular on State fee and sectoral fee financing. This ensures that the political leadership for the financing of the medical authorities adopted by the Stortinget through St.prp. No 1 should be followed. In line with the legislative proposal, I will come back to setting the rates for fees and sectoral charges in connection with regulatory work and the annual budget proposal. Prop. 35 L also includes a proposal to limit access to appeals against the Agency’s decision on a pre-authorised reimbursement of medicinal products. The proposal means that the right to appeal is limited to the application of law and to the procedure. This means that the professional judgement exercise underpinning the reimbursement decisions can no longer be tried by the Ministry in the context of the review procedure. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee subscribes to this proposal. I understand that the right of appeal is important for the pharmaceutical industry, but weighed against the considerable cost of building up adequate professional competence in a department, I believe that the legal certainty of the pharmaceutical company and the public confidence in the administration are adequately safeguarded by the fact that legal application and proceedings can be challenged. The proposal does not interfere with the right to appeal against the application of the law and proceedings. This will continue to be subject to appeal by the parties to the proceedings and by others with a legal interest in appeal. It is therefore not right, as the Committee's minority points out, that the government's proposal means that only procedural errors can be brought to justice. I have noticed that the minority of the Committee believes that it is unfortunate to remove the right of appeal that can provide substantive testing and quality assurance for the decision of the Medical Products Agency without proposing an alternative right of appeal. In my opinion, the establishment of alternative complaints mechanisms will pose similar resource challenges to those on which the government's proposals are based. I therefore believe that such a solution as these Members raise is not appropriate. In my view, the regulation of fees and sectoral fees in the field of medicinal products, which is now proposed by an overall committee, ensures the political leadership of the financing of medical authorities. I believe that the regulation of access to appeals for reimbursement decisions proposed by the majority of the Committee balances and takes care of the Ministry's resource situation with regard to transparency, reprobability and trust in administration in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2141	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2157	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines of reply be given to the members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2164	This is my first case rapporteurship. So let me start by thanking the Committee for a generally good and pleasant cooperation – a cooperation that also applies to the consideration of this proposal for a representative, which is about setting up today's decision-making forum for new methods and, as it says, ensuring transparency about the pricing of medicinal products in Norway. The background to the proposal is that the National Health Priority Council was not re-appointed from 2018, and the proposers believe that this weakens public vocabulary and advice on priorities in the sector. Decision-making forum for new methods was established in 2013 and consists of the heads of the four regional health establishments. The representatives who have promoted the proposal believe that the decision-making forum must be set up and replaced by a new body as part of the government. They also ask that the government submit a case to the UK to ensure transparency in the prices of medicinal products in Norway and, in particular, to work towards increased Nordic cooperation in this way. The proposers believe that the four health regional directors, with financial responsibility for the specialist health service, should also be responsible for decisions on the introduction of new methods and medicinal products in the country. There is an overall committee that supports the need for transparency around the priorities of healthcare. This is reflected, inter alia, in: in Meld. St. 34 for 2015–2016, the so-called Prioritisation Communication, to which the Stortingen joined. The Committee emphasises that before the establishment of the decision-making forum, there was no national coordinating body to introduce new methods, and that there were therefore situations that led to differences in treatment provision in the country. A Joint Committee also believes that there should be a high level of transparency in the setting of Norwegian pharmaceutical prices and that, with our culture of transparency, we have special conditions for active work within international forums, so that as little price negotiations as possible are hidden from the public. On the other hand, a unanimous committee recognises that in some context we must be able to accept secret pricing. A majority consisting of the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party and the Left consider it wrong to set up today's Decision Forum for new methods. I therefore agree with this and believe that the so-called unfortunate mix of roles to which the proposers refer should instead be described as 'necessary coordination' – a coordination of the financial responsibility with the care-responsibilities of regional health businesses. There is a line from the establishment of the business model to the current decision-making system to introduce new methodologies, new tools and new medicinal products. A national health system cannot be based on access to new methods depending on where you live or how well the individual hospital or county administration manages its finances. The procedure — from a new method to the methodological assessment, until the case is dealt with in the Decision Forum — has been substantially reduced, and there is ongoing work to improve the effectiveness of the case. This is reflected, inter alia, in: in the number of cases dealt with by the Forum. In the start-up year 2014, the figure was 37, and this has increased year by year to in 2017 to be a total of 121. Until 2015, a queue of new medicinal products was waiting for authorisation, but from then on the queue is gone. All of this indicates that this is an effective way of organizing. It is the view of the Ministry that if the decisions were to be added to an administrative organ in the future, this would have to result in new methods being allocated a framework or a mandate limit. This sounds reasonable. In other words, one separates the care-for-responsibility from the financial responsibility and thus violates the principles of the governance model that is built up and that there is a broad consensus in the Storting to maintain. In addition, I believe that this would most likely lead to a more heavy and bureaucratic decision-making process, something that no one has earned. Transparency and transparency of state decision-making processes are particularly important for the Left. Therefore, our view in this matter is that the system New methods have just been built up in order to address these concerns – and the system is working. There is transparency about the principles underlying the decisions and the way in which the decision-making processes themselves are organised. A bonus effect of this system is that, as indicated in the 2017 Annual Report of the Forum of Decision, public debate has become more widely accepted in order to give priority to choice between methods and medicinal products. Avoiding our political system being exposed to spontaneous decisions based on pressure from pharmaceutical manufacturers, lobbyists and non-professional stakeholders can prove very valuable in the years to come. For this reason, too, there is reason to suspend the decision-making forum for new methods.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2183	I also want to cheer on a decision-making forum, but it's a different decision-making forum than what exists today. Health care priorities have considerable consequences and involve many, and it is important that priorities are based on open processes, where the principle and arguments are known and can be discussed and understood by the general public. It's just how people and professionals can trust the priorities and what happens, that one sees that they're fair. We believe that the processes that follow the system of today's decision-making forums lead to a lack of openness in priorities, and that the four managing directors of the regional health authorities in the country, which form decision-making forums, have a mix of roles that are unfortunate for the legitimacy of the decisions. It is important for me to stress that the proposal for a representative is not about whether we need or should have a decision-making body for introducing new methods in the specialist services, but about how this should be done, and what framework should be in place, and that there are significant democratic weaknesses in the current decision-making forum for new methods. A new decision-making forum for new methods must, in our view, be set up to give legitimacy to the decisions and priorities that are being made. We need to create a broader forum, including: representatives with medical competence are better represented. The directors of regional health care agencies may still be represented in such a new forum, but the point is that they alone should not have the power to decide on behalf of Norwegian patients, at the seventh and last, and that a new decision-making forum must, of course, take decisions on the basis of the principles adopted by the Stortinge when dealing with the prioritisation message and the methodology used by the Medical Products Agency, as is the case today. It will be a broader forum. Although regional health professionals have a care-for-patient responsibility in their area, there is an overarching public health priority at group level. It is also a political responsibility. That is why we believe that a new decision-making forum must be removed from healthcare professionals and placed at the administrative level. It's to avoid an unfortunate mix of roles. So for the secrecy of drug prices: the centre party believes that the secrecy of drug prices violates the principle of openness and trust, which are fundamental values in Health-Norway. When decision-making forums were set up, drug prices in Norway were not allowed to be kept secret. Developments in retrospect have led to even more closed processes, where price, as it usually is, cannot be discussed in the public domain. Therefore, the price is charged in the case manufacture, and therefore the meeting is closed. Today, drug pricing is not only practised in decision-making forums for new methods, but also in regional health services. The decision on the secrecy of supply prices for medicinal products in hospitals was taken by the regional health authorities in February last year. A working group has on behalf of regional health care providers now figured out how to handle secret prices in hospital pharmacy. Their conclusion is that the pharmacies now have to keep the prices of hospital drugs secret for patients, and Lige is required to keep prices secret. They are only allowed to report price differences between medicinal products. In the winter of 2018, statistics on drug use were first published for which turnover figures for active substances are not included. It's a rather strange situation we've come into in a very short time. I mean, this can't go on. When even a proposal to increase Nordic cooperation for the purchase of medicinal products and for openness on medicinal product prices is also going to be voted off internationally, it shows how bad this is. The Government has also decided that the National Council for Priorities in Health Services should be reduced. I fear a less open and narrow priority debate, and that one in practice now has a priority debate in Norway that is just about medicine, without knowing the price. By doing so, I take up our suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2206	The representative, Kjersti Tope, has drawn up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2211	Norway should have a free public health system in which all contribute according to their ability through taxes and receive where necessary when they are ill. It's a health care system for the many, not for the few. The increasing prices of medicinal products demonstrate the importance of public health. The Spinraza medicine for SMA disease cost almost 1 million. kr per dose. Edaravone for ALS disease now being treated also costs millions per patient. It's amazing with new drugs that can save lives and better lives. But the price of some drugs is becoming so astronomical that even the public is struggling to finance the drugs. Medical firms are pushing for profit with people's lives as efforts. The biogen, which sells Spinraza, greatly increased international profits due to this one drug, with very few users. The pharmaceutical industry has now resumed the financial industry, and Forbes believes they typically have profit margins at 19 p.m. per year. The market has failed when people's access to drugs is threatened, while the pharmaceutical industry is making world records profit. In the years to come, we will have more and more issues with expensive medicines. In a democratic country like Norway, there should be transparency about what is happening. Citizens must have the same right to knowledge as health directors and politicians, and they must be able to participate in the debate. But instead, the government secretes the information to its own people. Only the pharmaceutical industry, health directors and top politicians should know. Why? Because the pharmaceutical industry itself has asked for it, and some politicians think it should give us cheaper medicines. To believe that the pharmaceutical industry wants secret prices because they want cheaper medicines and thus make less money is as naive as believing in Christmas. They're going to make money and push prices up internationally. It's their job – and they can do it. Norway lodges obediently and keeps the information secret. Prices are being pushed up internationally. Differences in Norway are increasing. Then it is extra important to use public money wisely, as much as possible to get the help they need. The money goes to the many, not the few. Therefore, SV proposes opening up pharmaceutical prices, opening up health businesses, and more Nordic cooperation for cheaper purchases of medicines – because we can use our power to create more and better competition around drug prices, instead of the majority now in favour of, that is, continuing secrecy, as the pharmaceutical industry itself has requested.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2228	Drug prices in Norway are initially open. List prices, negotiated when a new medicinal product is introduced into the market, are open. What happens when a lower price agreement is concluded, i.e. discount agreements? That's what's important. In the debate here, it sounds like there's a secret around everything. In some cases, we have drugs with astronomically high prices. Spinraza has been mentioned. I was probably one of those who went the hardest out against that company, precisely because of the price. The question is: does one believe that it is easier to bring down the price – so that more people can access the medicine – through closed negotiations with the parties around a table, or through a public debate on what the price should be? That question separates the lots. If you go in and look at what the parties thought about this when we dealt with the prioritisation message, it's quite obvious, as Grimstad said earlier, we want the most transparency possible, but we also want the most possible access to medicines. If the decision-making forum and the processes and negotiations around it can provide lower prices and better agreements for the Norwegian population, we are in favour of it. So it's interesting: now we've dealt with two issues where there's been a question of building up more expertise in the department, and whether we're going to have a prioritization board. There is reason to remember these debates next time the opposition criticises the government for employing more bureaucrats, for increasing staff in Oslo, and for having more public employees. When we say that we don't need a prioritized advice, we also say that we should have fewer employees and less activity around it, because we have adopted a prioritized message where the Storing crystal has clearly said what should be the basis for the priority decisions. And then the big attention the directors of health companies get because they make decisions is interesting. They're set to lead and make decisions! They make decisions all the time! They decide quite a lot differently about hospital operations. Why don't we have a debate about all the other things that hospitals are doing? Finally, it will be in open public debate – all decisions taken in a system with 145 billion. kr on the market? I think it's a little sad that we're being added to motives like we're doing this to stay for the pharmaceutical industry. No, we mean what we mean, because we want the most out of the health funds, we want the most treatment possible. The Spinraza case, which SV has brought up today, just shows that through tough negotiations, we have managed to put Spinraza in place for them under 18 years of age, where one has now documented the effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2239	For many years, national advice on priorities has contributed to good and open discussions on priorities. However, in recent years, priority mechanisms and systems have been set up that have resulted in a significantly smaller role for the Council. The size has, through the prioritisation notice, adhered to the principles of priority to be applied in the specialist healthcare service. A sample has also been appointed to look at the priority of municipal health and care services. That is why, in my opinion, there was no need to reappointment the council. At the same time, I am open to the need for a national advice on priorities related to the local government sector in the context of the forthcoming investigation. But we have to look at that when the investigation is complete. Systems for new methods are one of the tools for ensuring knowledge-based practices and prioritisation in line with the priority criteria. The aim is to ensure patients equal access to new and often costly methods that are safe and effective and where the decision to use a method has been assessed against the principles of priority. Health regions use the system as an instrument for the task assigned to them by the Stortinget, namely to provide specialist health services to the population. Pre-responsibilities mean that health regions are to determine which treatments are to be provided to the population. In addition, decisions must be taken within the framework also decided by the Storting, both through the requirement of soundness and the economic and legal framework. Prior to the establishment of the system, decisions on the use of methods were not always sufficiently knowledge-based or coordinated across regions. This led, among other things, to: different access for patients with equal needs. Today, patients across the country have equivalent access to new methods through the adoption of four co-decision decisions by health regions through the decision-making forum. My assessment is that it is not a good alternative to add decisions to an administrative body – this is because it will break down the leaders that form the basis for hospitals, where the responsibility for treatment and funding is to be grouped together in one place. I see that the system of new methods has contributed to a proper and necessary development where processes and decisions are far more transparent and visible than before the introduction of this system. There is full transparency about which medicinal products and therapeutic methods are being evaluated and what decisions are being taken. Anyone interested in finding good information will find new methods on the website.no. Despite this increased transparency, we still have a challenge of transparency around prices and discounts. The pharmaceutical industry is demanding to keep discounts hidden. This is an ethical dilemma, but in my view, the disadvantages associated with a curious requirement for transparency of discounts are greater than the benefits of transparency. In the worst case, it is the patients in Norway who will have to pay a very high price if Norway is to unilaterally demand transparency about prices, which will in reality lead to the medicinal products not being available in Norway unless we pay a price that is probably not paid by anyone else. That is why I agree that it is important to develop cooperation at both a Nordic, European and global level, and that is something that both I and the government are working on. It is therefore not necessary for the Storting to adopt this as we are already doing. It has been working for several years to strengthen Nordic cooperation on medicinal products. Among other things, a working group has been set up by the Nordic Council of Ministers, and there is informal Nordic cooperation referred to as the Nordic Pharmaceutical Forum. Norway is actively participating in both of these. The Ministry is now investigating the possibilities for formalised cooperation at political level. At the same time, these groups look at the possibility of closer cooperation. This could be done, for example, by: be carried out through joint methodological assessments and joint price negotiations. This is a theme that I am still addressing with my Nordic colleagues at the Nordic Ministerial Meetings. I take it up with my European colleagues through the informal ministerial meetings in the European Union, and I also discuss it with my colleagues internationally, among others. through the meeting points we have at the World Health Organisation Health Assembly. These are issues that need to be solved at an international level, and Norway will be a driving force for this. Norwegian patients cannot pay a high price for Norway unilaterally making this principle more important than all other health care considerations.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2264	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2269	A year ago, the national health authorities decided that the offer prices for medicinal products are to be considered business secrets and are to be kept secret, and they have also now forced hospital pharmacists to keep pharmaceutical prices secret. At the same time, there is now to be a ban on talking to a patient about the cost of a medicinal product. I have to ask the Council of State: Is it such that the Council of State is behind health professionals' decision, and does the Council of State think it is right that secrecy has been so widespread that even now, if they are at risk of calling a price to a patient, they can be corrected?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2276	This is the decision of the health regions. They must assess which contracts must be secret and which must not. The aim is to ensure the best possible price with industry so that as many patients as possible in Norway have access to treatment, that we use the health funds so that as many patients as possible are treated. I think it's a little strange that the representative uses the term 'force hospital apothecists', because the health regions own hospital apothecaries, this is part of their business. The doctors who work in the public hospitals are employees there. As with employees elsewhere, I expect that one also expects doctors to deal with contracts made by their employers, for example. purchasing agreements. So there's nothing special about doctors compared to other employees in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2284	In any case, I found that there is a very special situation that has come up in due to demands for secret medicine, both in the pharmacy and in the patient situation. Jon Magnussen, who was behind the Priority Committee, the Magnussen Group, and who is a professor of health economics at NTNU, has written a chronicle where he goes hard against the secretiveness of drug prices. There he says that the situation today makes us hostages by the pharmaceutical industry. Now there are not many to work for openness, although only a few years ago – it was with the civil government – that secrecy was introduced. Does not the Council of State listen to important voices out there saying that secrecy is a danger to democracy and the legitimacy of the decisions taken?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2293	As I said in my post, I fully agree that Norway is going to work for transparency in this area, and so are we. I do that on all the international arenas where I have the opportunity, and the representative knows that. But what I disagree with is that Norway is going to break that principle alone, because the consequences will be so great for Norwegian patients that I am not willing to pay that price. The representative also knows very well that if Norway had not accepted the secret of discounts, for example. on the medicinal product already mentioned in this room, Spinraza, the consequences would have been that we had not had the opportunity to apply that treatment. It would have been, in my opinion, too high a price to pay, because all other countries accept secrecy of this kind of discounts. So the solution to that question is exactly what the government is doing, working for international solutions, and we have to admit that it takes time, because here the countries have different views.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2300	It was with the State Council as a health minister in the previous period that a Stortingen agreed to accept the secrecy of discounted prices. When we learn from the Council of State that the solution now is to work internationally to seek a comprehensive solution to demand openness, then my question is: how is it in these international forums when Norway, under this Minister of Health, is the country that has introduced secret prices – what is the understanding in the other countries of the world so that one should work for openness at the same time, when a secret has just been introduced? Is that credible?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2305	I have several times in Stortinget informed about my work internationally at open prices, so it should not come as a surprise to the representative. Moreover, when I meet in international forums, I do not meet any colleagues who operate with open prices. My colleagues experience exactly the same situation as Norway, and they also operate with secret prices and discounts. In addition, not everyone internationally shares my commitment – and the involvement of the government and Norway – in this area. We have to recognise that countries will have different interests here, and that is also one of the reasons why this is a demanding work. We only see it at the Nordic level, Norway and Denmark are the most willing to go the farthest in terms of cooperation in order to stand together and work with them, for example. agreements with the pharmaceutical industry in order to bring prices down. So even in a Nordic perspective, there will be different assessments between countries in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2310	Secret prices have grown because the pharmaceutical industry itself has wanted it and lobbied it internationally. The pharmaceutical industry in Norway wants its own secret of pharmaceutical prices. What does the Council of State think is the reason why the pharmaceutical industry wants secrets from these prices? Is it because they want lower prices and less profit, or is it because they can even take higher prices and make more money on medicines?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2315	I heard the representative in his post using the concept that the market had failed. But the challenge is that in this area we do not have a functioning market, and that is the situation in which we stand. Had we had a functioning market, we would have had several suppliers with the same product that competed internationally. Then we had been in a completely different situation. But internationally, we have agreed that in order to develop new medicines, we accept, among other things. patent time, allowing a company to be exclusive in a monopoly situation with a medicinal product over time. It doesn't create a perfect market. This means that we are facing a situation where the industry says that they operate with a price – open – that is often extremely high, but is also willing to make discounts if they are kept secret. Norway may choose to say no to that, but then we will also choose to say no to offering our patients that type of treatment. For Norway, we must recognise that we are an extremely small market for this industry internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2320	One of the things that makes the job of Stortinget difficult is when you ask completely concrete, simple questions, and then rarely get an answer. So I'm just trying to ask the exact same question again. Secret prices have grown internationally because the pharmaceutical industry has lobbied and asked for it. The pharmaceutical industry in Norway wants its own secret of pharmaceutical prices. What does the Council of State think is the reason why the pharmaceutical industry wants to keep the prices of medicinal products secret? Is it because they want lower prices and less profit, or is it because they themselves believe that they can then set higher prices and thus make more money? I hope I can get an answer to the question this time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2325	I think maybe what has become a new experience for the representative Wilkinson is that even simple questions may have complicated answers, because the world is not always as simple as the representative Wilkinson wants it to be. So my answer is the same thing as the previous one. This is a complicated question. We fully agree on the principle, but unfortunately the world is not as simple as Wilkinson wants it to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2330	The cord shift is over. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2348	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines of reply be given to the members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2357	We all know that the police reform is not a great favourite at the Workers' Party. Therefore, it is not very surprising that we are once again gathered to discuss a proposal that actually intends to to torpedo the essence of police reform. Some of the proposals that have been put forward today are quite simple to join. These include: proposed strengthening the remaining office structure. It is also suggested that the government be asked to ensure that the Stortinge leaders are followed up. Strengthening the remaining police is precisely the central point of the reform. It is a natural consequence that when one joins a number of offices and is to strengthen the professional environments to support them, it will, of course, mean real strengthening. In addition, the reform we are now in the process of implementing has made it possible that year after year we can strengthen the appropriations, i.e. the transfers of funds, to the police. There is clearly also a strengthening of the remaining office structure. So I'm not going to spend many seconds saying that it's a matter of course that proposals and statements that we ask the government to follow up on Storting's intentions, it's quite obvious that we're joining. Representatives in this room have been doing that for about 200 years, and we are happy to do that today. On the other hand, what is entirely irrelevant is the proposal for Decision III, which requires that each member's office should have a local waitress and staff to be able to perform all types of tasks. It looks like a very nice wish on the paper. In reality, it is grossly irresponsible. First of all, Norwegian law enforcement agencies have never been able to solve all police tasks on their own. Nor has it ever been the intention, nor should it be now. If you're going to follow this intention in its wording, there are calculations from the Police Directorate that say we have to hire between 25 and 30 police officers per member's office in Norway. It has a price that I believe the proposers have not fully taken over. It would have been a massive waste of police resources that should have been used elsewhere. It also involves political detailed management of the police who are not police professionals but who have to be characterised as a marker policy. Secondly, this creates uncertainty at an enormously critical stage in the police. This has also been expressed by a number of police officers, including the police. in a large contribution to the VG. Political upheaval is actually directly harmful to the police in the situation we are now facing. What they need is stability and not changes in the midst of a difficult process that is in progress. Thirdly, this proposal will damage the strong professional environments that are being built up. The police analysis was very clear: what we need are larger professional environments with competence to deal with complicated crime, for example. online assault. The proposal of the Central Party will mean breaking up these trade unions, splitting them up and spreading them around the Länsmann offices instead. Finally, I would like to say something about the intention of the conciliation. It is my clear view that the proposals for Decision III in this case are directly contrary to the intention of the conciliation and that the parties which join it are also guilty of violating the settlement that was concluded. It is true that the new county councils are to be managed by the county councillors. We are clear on that in the agreement. It has never been the intention that each office should be run by borrowers. That was a reason why we said the County of Länsmann, non - office. My message is very clear: we want the police reform to work. It has to be implemented, it has to be completed, and then it has to work for a few years. Then politicians on the Storting and otherwise have some ice in their stomachs and let this process be completed. The Norwegian police are not served by the fact that from Stortinget's side, we put our heads in the wheels and create confusion around one of the biggest and perhaps most important reforms in the history of Norwegian police.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2380	I want to begin by congratulating Tor Mikkel Vara as the new Minister of Justice. I look forward to good debates, dialogue and cooperation on what we can only talk about, and exciting vocabulary on things where we may not be as many. There is a lot of good work going on in the police — a lot of good, hard and intensive work at a time when police action is at the heart of a comprehensive reform. The Justice Committee recently visited – on Tuesday and Wednesday – the Northern Police Districts and Bodø. There we got a good insight into how they are experiencing both the work on reform, implementation and what is most important in the Nordic police districts right now. There is reason to say that there is also a lot of good happening in the context of the reform that is now being implemented. We see enthusiasm and optimism relating to new methods, police work in the city and the establishment of joint criminal proceedings. There is a great deal to be done with this reform, and I think it is important that we in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights both say, point and acknowledge. But at the same time as we say it, we must not be blind to the completely open challenges that lie there too. There may be a party that has a government seat for a while, that one becomes a little reckless when it comes to its own projects and reforms, that one may not or may not want to see the challenges that are also in such a great transformation as the police are currently facing. It is a major challenge that the reform and reconciliation of which the Labour Party is also a part are underfunded. It's too little money. We get feedback from the trustees and add it to the police across the country that it is above average demanding to keep up the day-to-day operation, the daily police work – local preparedness, prevention and security work – while reforming the department. I have a great deal of understanding of this and I believe that the promises made to the reform and the police districts are not in the vicinity of being able to respond to the challenges facing the districts. The Labour Party has both proposed and repeatedly pointed out that police districts need more space for action and increased operational budgets. There is also a feedback many police districts give us. That's why we're proposing $300 million. kr more to the police and prosecution in free means of operation for 2018. We see a lot of places in the country that there was a lot of need. The representative Frölich is very busy with the Labour Party – and I take that as a compliment. But it's not right that we don't like this reform. We're behind the equation and the intentions we've been able to figure out. I mean, on the contrary, if there's someone who's broken with the intentions that we've been through, it's the government party that's doing it. The proposals that the Central Party is making today should have our totally unnecessary. We should not have dealt with such proposals here today if one had followed the intentions that lie in the agreement. In the notes, it comes from the Right and the Advance Party that one of them opens open doors. I'm afraid one doesn't. It is not the case that a local police force around the country is now being strengthened. The fact that one manages to gather about the first two proposals from the Center Party today, I thought I was good, but it is totally wrong that it is opening doors. There's a lot of concern about this, and I think that's what I'm going to take seriously. We believe that this is entirely in line with the agreement, and we think that it is regrettable that we must once again adopt what is, of course, in Stortinget. There are also claims that we broke the agreement. I want to encourage the representative Frölich to come to this pulpit and read the text from the agreement where he thinks we're breaking. There was never a discussion about whether there should be a loner in a loner's office. In my opinion, and in the Workers' Party's view, there's not a loner's office without a loner. Then you have to be more honest and say, "There will be many structural changes, they and they will be brought down. On Vega there shall be no loner's office. There's supposed to be a police post. It would have been much more honest and real than saying that it should be a loner's office that really doesn't. The proposals that the Central Party is making today are important. We support them and also expect those who get multiple numbers to be followed up in a proper and good way, for the best for the police and for the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2397	I would also like to take the opportunity to welcome the new Minister of Justice to Stortinget, and I look forward to good cooperation. I would like to say to the post that the Labour Party representative held here, that police reform is one of the greatest tasks that the Minister of Justice has to deal with, and with which there are major challenges, but where it is incredibly positive. Then it's important to look at what's positive in the police reform. It is probably not possible to put under the chair that the proposal from the Center Party is an attempt to change a case that they lost a year ago. I am surprised to note that the Labour Party supports the proposals, even though they were part of the agreement on police reform. That's special. Close police reform is the result of a broad settlement. It is historically both in scope and content, and a major effort has been made to implement the reform by 2020. A proposal like what we are dealing with today is a little constructive, all the time it is working hard to introduce the reform. Those who are busy listening to the districts, and those who are in the middle of it, can read the chronicles of the VG from the police officers in the Northland, Troms and More and Romesdal. It is worth reading: ‘There is good reason to make the new structures work, before we discuss the need to redefine the offices of local officials.’ ‘The size must not hinder the job of creating a modern police force equipped to deal with today’s and tomorrow’s crime.’ The objectives set out in the proposal are what we all want for the Norwegian police, and that is also in the agreement on the near-police reform. The aim of the close police reform is to strengthen the remaining officers' offices, to organise the police in an appropriate manner, and not least to strengthen the competences of each office, and to ensure that they are also adapted to the crime scene that exists today. The government is following up the near-police reform. I would like to remind you that there are more than 2,100 new annual works in the police and relief service, and that in 2017 it was granted more than 300 million. kr in free resources, and not least that this was continued in 2018, in addition to 100 million. Extra kroner. There are funds allocated to 12 police districts, which the police officers themselves are to distribute according to local needs. An important consideration behind the laying down of 125 LEN's offices was to strengthen the remaining offices. The Progress Party will, as the Right said, support I and II in proposals for decisions, even if it is looking up open doors. However, I would like to warn against III that there will be local loners in each county office, for the organisation internally in a police district is something that is negotiated and decided locally, after a good dialogue between the police officers, the employee organisations and with involvement in the relevant municipalities. When the centre party is so concerned with the local self-government, it should be a good signal to send. It is these actors who have the best knowledge and knowledge of local needs and conditions. There is also another point that may not have been mentioned in this case. The core of the police reform is building up a larger trade union environment to meet today's crime scene. The police analysis was very clear on the need for a wider professional environment with different and broad competences in order to deal with today's challenges. I'm worried that III will lead to that one having to move and distribute professional resources into smaller offices, just to achieve what is referred to as a sufficient crew. When we know how important it is to investigate, with the ongoing investigation promise under way, it is important that this, which was a central part of the reform of the police, be fulfilled. I fear that if III gets a majority, it will go beyond the work that the police are doing today, especially in combating violence and abuse against children and net crime, which we know requires both knowledge and competence and greater professional environment to get in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2421	This case is about the development of the cannon seat in Norway. We depend on having a close, good and competent police force to take care of important aspects of our society, such as security and trust in each other. In the case of today's debate, we in the Central Party are excited whether we could have multiples for all three of our original proposals, which are now I, II and III in the vote. It's like we're only getting multiples for the first two. Even the government party, the Right Party and the Advance Party, have decided to stand behind the first two proposals, and I would like to welcome them. But when I read what the Right Party and the Advance Party write in their comments, I understand that support from them is most intended as a damp hand around the shoulder. The first proposal we presented in the Central Party is as follows: ‘The government is asking for a real strengthening of the offices of local officials that remain after the implementation of the police reform.’ The second is like this: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the leaders of the Great Britain are followed up and to ensure that police stations are adequately staffed to be active where people are.’ The right and the step forward parties make comments on the matter in their committee, is to redefine what these proposals mean. They state freely that the proposals ‘press open doors and are obvious’. So they make fools of the whole goal of strengthening the offices of the locals by claiming that ‘between 25 and 30 police officers must be employed in each place of employment to achieve the intent of the Central Party’s proposals’. I wonder how the Right and the Progress Party can perform such a logical failure as they see here. On the one hand, they will vote in favour of the proposals containing formulations on the real strengthening of the agencies that remain, and on the fact that the offices must be adequately staffed to be actively present where people are. The two government parties are doing their best to establish that they can support this because it doesn't matter anything in addition to the policies they already run. On the other hand, they think that III will mean an enormous uplift in many offices. They even refer to calculations from the Police Directorate. There's our formula that the janitor's offices should have sufficient staff to solve their problems. We can think about what the state council will do when the disarmament is over in the hall. Will he follow up on the Right and the Progress Party's interpretation that the government can continue to weaken and, in practice, lay down more offices than the police reform provided? Will the Council of State feel confident that many offices with the benevolence of the Storting can continue to be riveted for settings and resources, and reduce their additional opening time? Or will he follow up on what I feel is that the plural meaning, that all the remaining loner offices should actually be strengthened in the form of resources and added? The point for us in the Center Party is simply not to achieve a massive increase in police posts at many LEN's offices. What we want to achieve today is that the Storting gives the government clear notice that they cannot continue to take resources and settings from many loner offices. Remember, more than 120 loner offices are being closed. The argument for this was that fewer loner offices would make it possible to strengthen the offices that were left, and that one could achieve more police patrols. More police on wheels would help to ensure not only as much police as before, but actually more police — even closer police. Now we feel that the government is struggling to prove that they are achieving a strong police force. A part of the officers' offices to be left after the reform, which have a legitimate expectation of having something more added than today, is told to reduce the opening time. They will not be strengthened, but the settings will actually be moved to other cannon offices. This is the beginning of new closures far beyond the scope of police reform. We in the Center Party are happy that several parties view this as a problem and do not do as the Right Party and the Progress Party, which expounds that more police patrols mean so much. When asked just how many more police patrols the police reform has led to in the country, former Minister of Justice Listhaug was unable to respond to this in February at the latest. The government doesn't have an overview of how much more wheel police there may have been. They don't intend to get such an overview either. This is the much more eye-catching than it is trusting. Of course, Länsmannskontoret will cooperate on e.g. Watch and patrol. It should be obvious that there should be a loner in a quarter of a man's office as well. This last goes against the government and the Christian People's Party. The question we finally have to ask ourselves is if the government party and the Christian People's Party think there's a problem if every county office should get resources to solve its problems. They are at least voting this way down today, and the government parties are so strangely adding to the first two proposals that I hope the Council of State will take care of the great majority and not the wording of his own representatives in the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2453	First of all, I must be allowed to congratulate the new Minister of Justice on the job. I know him as a wise and serious man, so I delight in exciting discussions with him. But over to what we're going to discuss now. Today, the Stortinget will decide that we should strengthen the police in the districts – but only in the districts. It seems that the majority will support the first points on strengthening the lenght offices, but not the last points, on strengthening the police in the cities. So the size of the city will not decide that the police should be strengthened in the cities. Unfortunately, countries have been set up against the city, and the police needs of districts have been assessed without looking at the needs of cities for police resources. And it's not the Central Party's fault, which is usually very concerned with the districts, because they actually support SV in a more holistic approach to how we're going to allocate police resources. It's the government parties, even with the support of the Christian People's Party, that in this way actually fail the cities. The SV share concerns related to the centralisation of police resources. That is why we have also supported the first points here and strengthened the resource allocation of the police to the districts along the original loner structure. It's important to have a near-police where people live. The presence of the police creates local security, helps prevent and, of course, contributes to a positive development in the districts. But we can't look at it without looking at the evolution of cities. So I'm glad that the Central Party and the Workers' Party support our proposal to strengthen the police in the cities and in vulnerable urban areas, but I'm disappointed that the Christian People's Party chooses to secure a majority that does not go in to strengthen the police in the cities. We have to have a local police force in the cities, too. When this proposal came up, SV could not sit and see that Stortinget instructed more police resources to the districts without caring for the needs of cities, especially in vulnerable urban areas. With this proposal – unless the last points are also adopted – we are therefore at risk of redeploying police resources in this country away from cities and districts. I think nobody really wanted that. The town of Søndre Nordstrand has 37 000 inhabitants, and had a little since then a separate police post at Holmlia. It's now shut down. Many of the residents who are concerned and feel that the police are not present in their everyday lives. The area is characterised by riots and increasing juvenile delinquency. However, while the response time in cities is short, a close police department is needed, which knows the cities and urban areas — a police force working on prevention, to which the population can turn. We have not wanted to give detailed instructions on how the police will work in the districts. It's not necessarily that reopening a police post is the best way to ensure police presence, we have confidence that the police can find out for themselves, but we've wanted to give a clear signal when we're dealing with this matter, that we also need to secure police resources for the more vulnerable areas of cities, especially in vulnerable urban areas. In fact, the crime scene is different in cities than in districts. The image of crime is more complex and often requires more complex resources and competences. In some vulnerable neighbourhoods, we have experienced repeat crime with dramatic violence and shooting, including in the last few days. We've seen an increase in juvenile delinquency. We see more drug-related crime. We also see a high proportion of immigrants, and – which is known to most people in this room – some immigrant groups, not all, commit something more criminal than the average. Therefore, the Swedish authorities wanted the Stortinget to give a clear signal that the Ministry and the police should also give priority to cities, and that the crime experienced in cities should also have attention and resources. Today, the majority of the population in cities are failing. They set up a country against the city and give a clear signal that it is more important to secure police in the city than in the city.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2470	I will be allowed to start by congratulating the new Minister of Justice, and I look forward to good cooperation. I want to remind the Storting about the background and the backbone of the police reform. When discussing the various proposals for representatives that are being promoted, we must not forget 22 July and the clear recommendations made by the Gjørv Commission that something had to be done – precisely to improve the ability of the police to solve their societal mission. When the Christian People's Party in its time chose to engage in dialogue with the government parties and the Left to seek reform, it was with a desire to ensure the best possible police. Those negotiations did not take place in due course. A proposition was put forward by the ruling parties of the time and the Left, and together with the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party made a settlement in the Stortinget. We did it because we were concerned with a wide lashing in this room around an important reform, but also because we got important breakthroughs. We raised culture, management and prevention, which was important to us. We promised that there would be a police contact in every municipality, i.e. the presence of the police in every municipality. And we realized that there would be good political processes, processes with the police and the municipalities, where one would discuss what kind of resources were needed, what the individual municipality actually needed for police action, and how to solve the challenges there in the best possible way. I could say a little about that it might not be as good as we wanted, but at least it was important for us because it was also about having a local ownership to ensure the best possible police. For the Christian People's Party, there is a difference between whether there is a police presence or not. For me, it is obvious that where there is a presence, the police can also do a better job. There will be better prevention, more local knowledge — and that’s positive. That's why we were, and we've been all along, champions of a lot of loner offices. But the situation was, with physical offices that really didn't have any content or employees, that got confused -- one could say polemically -- under the red-greens, we thought it was better in those cases that police patrols, with actual, physical presence of police force, because it's the police force that's crucial -- not the physical office itself or the local management. As far as the reform is concerned, we have been busy with good processes. As I said, there are several things we think should have been done differently – especially in the involvement of the municipalities, the documents we were working on in order to see in retrospect whether with the actually promised new presence or the way to solve criminal challenges, we would have succeeded in the best possible way. We could say a lot about that, but when we stand here and discuss the proposal today, I also have to remind you that it was important to do a lot of work, to give more trust to the police, to ensure a locally anchored police force – that was an important element – but also a stronger research environment. The Christian People's Party has been very concerned with the fight against violence and abuse, especially in close relations and against children. It's our biggest social problem, and we have to get a better environment. We succeed in getting the police to demand that it be given priority, and the possibility of prioritising it. At the same time, a strong close-up should be ensured in a better way than what we experience with the reform today. So when the Christian People's Party supports proposals for Decisions I and II in the vote, which refer to the purpose and intention of the reform, it is absolutely essential that the wording of those decisions be actually followed up, and it is about the fact that at the offices that were elected, where there is an office, there should be a strong presence. I also share the concern with more people in this room about whether that actually happens. It is a challenge that the Minister of Justice must follow closely. With regard to the proposal for Decision III, on local management, I basically agree that there should be locals in the various offices, but I believe it is a police-professional task to prioritise within its territory. He/she knows his/her territory best. I think it's getting too detailed. I believe it is unwise and expensive to interpret it in the worst sense, as Mrs Frölich has also pointed out, but in the best sense, I think it is well taken care of in the proposals for Decisions I and II, just to secure the resources of the offices that are. To items IV and V: When I heard the representative Petter Eide from SV, there is a funny contrast between the centre party and SV in this room, and one should give the cities even stronger priority and the districts even stronger without having money for it. I believe that consideration here has been taken into account. For example, through the budgetary agreement, we secured. 350 new posts. It is the most important thing to give police power — in both city and country.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2489	The President would like to welcome Mr Mikkel Vara to the Chair!
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2494	Thank you very much, Mr President and representatives, for the warm welcome. The close police reform is not a bad start in discussing the issue in Stortinget for the first time in 25 years. It gives me the opportunity to debate important and necessary changes in the police. The structural debate – the near-police reform debate – has received a lot of attention in the years that we have left behind. It is complicated, demanding and a necessary job to do. However, it is only the beginning of a work on developing a police force that is equipped to meet the crime scene of the future. This government has a historic promise for the police. Last year we passed 17 000 employees; more than 10,000 of them are police trained. This year, a further 350 posts are allocated to the police districts and special agencies. This means that we have received over 2,300 more annual police work since this government joined in 2013. So we want to reach the target of two police officers per 1,000 inhabitants. This is together with the 3.36 billion budgetary increase. a significant commitment to the police. I believe that the proposal that every cannon office should have a local loner undermines the intention behind this near-police reform. Firstly, it weakens the flexibility of police management to dispose of resources where they provide the best response to crime. Secondly, it discourages the building of stronger professional environments that have the capacity and competence to handle complex and serious criminal cases that the individual County Office or the individual police station cannot handle itself. Thirdly, the proposal violates the broad agreement reached by the Storting on two levels. I also recall the decision of the Storting on civil justice on the basic level, which requires specialised proceedings concentrated in fewer places of employment. The police are already using disproportionate resources to keep offices open. The population demands less opening hours, and some offices may have as few as three requests from the public over a week. It is now being put in place to make it possible for the public to operate more efficiently on networks and by mobile patrols and devices. Police themselves must have the ability to dispose of resources as best they can in order to prevent and combat crime. If all police duties are to be resolved at each office, it will require a new and comprehensive allocation of resources to the police. The Directorate of Police considers that crews should be at least 25 to 30 persons in order for a place of employment to have a reasonable prerequisite for the performance of its duties, i.e. on its own. prevention, investigation, watchkeeping and preparedness, as well as local administrative services and civil law tasks. In that case, the police will have to redeploy considerable resources from cities and large agglomerations where much happens, to smaller places where little happens. Nor, for the purpose of preparedness, are the staffing of the offices of the local civil servants good use of resources. Even after the structural changes, many loner offices will be so small that they will not be able to provide a 24-hour response on their own. If a lenner's office is to have a day-old patrol, 18 police officers are required, and 9 officials are required by a 24-hour security guard. This crew is necessary no matter how many tasks the office has. In addition, the staff comes to keep the office open. Few Länsmann offices have a task portfolio that requires so much staffing. This is therefore a poor use of society's resources. The organisation in a county or police district is negotiated locally after prior good dialogue between the police officer and workers’ organisations, involving the municipalities concerned. These are the actors who are best acquainted with local conditions and challenges. Leaders in the State budget, letters of allocation and the objectives and priorities of the National Attorney are clear that it is the serious crime that must be prioritised. The new organisation of police districts is precisely to facilitate enhanced efforts to combat serious crime. As regards the question of permanent presence in the town of Søndre Nordstrand, I believe that it is a professional assessment that must be made by the police officer in Oslo and not by the Stortinget. It's the police chief's responsibility to provide the best possible solution. Specific funds have been allocated through the 2018 State Budget for an effort in Greenland and the south of Oslo. I believe that this will facilitate good efforts by the police in these areas. Finally, I would like to remind you that we are in the midst of a reform with the highest priority and that it is important that we implement the reform before we close it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2517	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2523	Again: Congratulations as new Minister of Justice! We have great expectations for the new Minister of Justice. Together with the Christian People's Party, the Labour Party – as we know – entered into an agreement on the police reform. We had clear premises – conditions – for that reconciliation. Unfortunately, we feel too much that the implementation of the conciliation has not been taken seriously enough. This is particularly true of the local processes, which the representative Robstad was involved in, but it also involves a real strengthening of the local police force and the work on culture and leadership. I hope that the new Minister of Justice will take this more seriously than his predecessors have done. My question is: will the Council of State in its work be loyal to the agreement we have made here in Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2532	Governments will be loyal to the decisions taken by the Stortinget. That is why I also think that the debate that has been here today has good intentions and objectives, but we must distinguish between two rounds: one is the reform itself, and the other is the budgetary decisions to follow it up. We know that budget decisions are a matter for the Storting to deal with in budgetary procedures. But, of course, the Council of State will be loyal to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2537	Already there we're probably a little bit disunity. I don't think we can look at the reform entirely detached from the state budget. It is the annual budget that will decide whether we are able to carry out the ambitions we are some about. One of the main criticisms we have made over a considerable period of time is that the reform is underfunded. A large number of police districts have a markedly sluggish space for action. For this reason, my question is simply: does the Minister of Justice think that there is a need to increase the level of police districts' rights in order to implement police reform in line with the intentions of the conciliation?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2542	We will carry out the reform in line with Stortinget's intentions, and we are on track. There has been a significant strengthening of police budgets during this government — more than ever before. We must constantly evaluate how far we have come and set new goals, but the reform is not finished. I think it's early to say that it's not well funded enough. I was, of course, going to want more money, but I think we've done a lot, and I think we're on the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2547	I join the congratulations when it comes to the new Minister of Justice. The proposal to keep a bilgeman in each of the bilgemen's offices is a lot to blame for. I would like to point out that this does not mean that one should add additional settings to a loner's office, but that one of the people working there should actually be a loner and a lessee. Representatives from the Government Party claim that the proposal violates the agreement on police reform. My question to the Council of State is quite simple: how does the proposal for a city-based lease break in the quarter of a man's office, with the agreement that the majority of people had reached in 2015?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2556	If we go back a little bit and think about what the challenge was, it's that we're facing a crime scene that changes a lot and continuously. When I was a representative in this room 25 years ago, crime was different. It's changed now. This means that we have a reform where we put a significant responsibility on the police officers to assess the situation continuously. I don't think we in Stortinget's room are able to control the police in detail to hit the crime scene. In this respect, the reform must allow the police officer the freedom of action and the opportunity to change the manning process as the crime scene changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2561	I just have to say hello to the new Minister of Justice and say that I am impressed by how he has managed to get involved in many details in one day. I think we should be kind to him and not ask too many detailed questions when he is so fresh in the job. I noticed one thing he said, and it was that these proposals would move significant police resources from cities to districts. Then my question is: why has the Minister of Justice not then given advice to the representatives of the government in the Chamber who represent the parties, to support the SV's proposals to strengthen the police resources in the cities, so that we could achieve a more comprehensive balance in the allocation of police resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2574	We must distinguish between the two proposals for decisions supported by the Government parties and the third proposal on the Office of Lone Commissioners. But the main reason here is also – as in the last proposal on the Länsmannskontoret – that we want this to be a police professional decision that is left to the police chief to take, in this case the police chief in Oslo. Oslo has also received a significant boost in economic efforts in recent years, but prioritisation from the Stortinget Hall also means that there is a need to reduce priorities. Then it's interesting to know what the police chief in Oslo is not going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2579	I believe that the Minister of Justice is at the heart of the matter at the end: this is also about giving priority to something, and we are not in this Chamber who know the different issues around this country at all times. When I follow the news picture and visit the Oslo police, I see extreme challenges, including: gang crime. There's a lot that's pretty scary. The same thing can be seen when one goes into the other of the suggestions here, that there are things that one initially shares the intention behind. So my question, even though, after the representative, Petter Eide's call can be very detailed, is, what does the Minister of Justice think? If the Stortinget is not to instruct, does the Minister of Justice have enough dialogue meetings and various opportunities to recall the different challenges? The majority of people in this room have been on a deal that had good intentions, and that we want to be followed up. How does the Minister of Justice want to ensure that? And how will he address, for example, the challenge we see in Søndre Nordstrand now?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2588	Governments have two possibilities to secure it. One is in the letter of assignment to the Directorate of Police, and the other is in the follow-up to the budget in Stortinget. Although at one point in history we have an opinion about what should be done in one place in the country, it is not certain that it is the reality that requires the highest priority the next time. The Storting and the Riksadvokat have asked for the highest priority to be given to serious crimes. It's also named which crimes it is. Then it must be up to the police chief in Oslo to see how he can follow it up. So far, there's no reason to believe that he's not following up on what's the Big One's priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2594	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2601	As Vågslid was at the outset today, the Justice Committee was visiting the Northern Police District two days ago. Chief Tone Vangen had a clear message for us big-time representatives before the reading today: Give us work peace and trust. We need to work long-term, and we're on track, she said. She believed that police reform has already strengthened the police in Northern Ireland. There is a need to remember that the near-police reform in these days is being implemented at all levels of the police, and it is demanding. The organisation shall be in place, the division of labour shall be in place, the recruitment shall be carried out and the working methods shall be carried out. The organisation shall then be in place by 1 June 2018. Parts of the proposal for the centre party simply put joints in the wheels of an already well initiated process and will create a high level of unforeseeableness. Furthermore, the work done by the police, the municipalities and the Ministry of Justice and Security in the development of new local structures needs to be resumed. Then it is mildly alarming that the Workers' Party and the Center's party are now going in to control the police in Oslo, too. It is stated in the V proposal for a decision that we want the police to ensure a permanent presence on Holmlia. Well, it's the districts that's been assigned to organize the police. It's the police officers and the police districts who know where the shoe prints. We don't do that here in Stortinget to such an extent, so I'm surprised at such a detailed management. I am also amazed that the proposal is not being discussed against the changes we see in the crime scene. Instead of binding funds to the county offices and county councillors, we would rather use them to strengthen professional environments in the fields of child abuse, labour crime and environmental crime, among others. We can't now think that the lenient is what gives us the best count, as the crime scene has taken shape. We therefore want to listen to signals from various police officers in our country. We want to give them the confidence to continue the process without interference.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2614	It is a very important proposal for a representative to be discussed today. It is important to strengthen local police work. The local police, close to the population, do an important job in prevention, but also by investigating and solving large and small issues in everyday life. The centre party has helped to put money on the table to strengthen local police work. In the state budget for the current year, we proposed a re-priority within the police budget. We proposed an extra half a billion kroner to the police districts just to strengthen the local police work. Police reform resulted in massive centralisation and closure of well-functioning labour offices in Norway. In Rome, in my own county of Akershus, several offices have been closed. Sørum, Fet, Rällingen, Nannestad, and Gjerdrum are laid down. Then one would at least think that when one has closed 125 LEN's office, the remaining LEN's offices would be strengthened. For example, once again in Rome, an area that is in strong growth and with almost 300,000 inhabitants, where one has closed several canal offices, the remaining canal offices have not been strengthened, they are clipped and gradually emptied of content. In a well-functioning labour office, it must be cut during the opening hours, it must be cut off in service provision. It's not a strengthening of the lumbarist offices, and that's why our proposal is important. I record that the tone from the Right and Advance Party this year is that our proposal to strengthen the remaining LEN's office is to open open doors. Well, when we proposed the exact same thing last year, with the exact same wording, the Right, the Advance Party and the Left voted it down. At the time, it was not reasonable to adopt that proposal, but when the three parties have come into a minority in this Chamber, they redefine what the proposal actually involves. Of course, the proposal is to strengthen all the remaining offices after the reform. It is not about, as the rapporteur tries to give the impression, that it is about strengthening the support functions of the lumbarist offices, for example. Kripos or the Police Directorate. No, it's about strengthening the lumbarist offices – not just for strengthening the lumbarist offices together, but for each lumbarist office. That is why I would ask the Minister of Justice to confirm that he understands what is the majority's opinion here – that each Länsmannskontoret should be strengthened, that Eidsvoll in my own area should be strengthened with more staff and more resources than they have today, and that the Länsmannskontoret in the Years, which the Christian People's Party and the Center Party and several others have fought for, should be strengthened and not weakened in the future. That's what the majority's opinion is in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2625	When it comes to strengthening local police, I am glad that there is also a theme that needs to be strengthened in cities. In fact, I don't think there's any place in the country where it's more important that the police are close than in areas in the Oslo East where there's 40-45 pst. high school dropouts, where there are many low incomes and many who have backgrounds from countries where you look at the police more like an enemy, and where around the corner there are criminal gangs waiting to lure with thousands, criminal status, etc., and who next time face threats and extortion if young people who go into this do not agree with what they are asking for. I believe that if the young people who are in this danger zone know their local policeman, if they have one they're used to talking to, one that's around, one that they like, one that's an existing counter-pol, it's clear that the danger of being drawn into these gang environments will be much less. I can tell from my own experience. More than ten years ago, I began to wander out on Holmlia in Søndre Nordstrand together with a local policeman who I can call Jon. He was a nuclear. He liked to talk to the kids, and the kids liked him. Everyone knew who "Jon" was, and I don't think anyone could think of throwing a stone at "Jon" out there. For many of them, he acted as a buffer when it came to getting involved and "Jon" said, "Keep away from this." I was with him and met young people in the danger zone, and I saw how it could work if you were close enough. He left three to four years ago. I would like to say to those who wonder what is in the ‘permanent presence’ and whether it is a detailed management: if you had talked about the permanent absence of policemen in some way in a city in Norway with 37 000 inhabitants, people would stagger violently. Sdr Nordstrand is a town in Oslo with 37 000 people. Porcelain root has 37 000 people. What we're talking about here are policemen who are regular crews, who become familiar with the population, who meet fast in their areas, and who are safe, able to talk and have the contact area that you're going to have. It's not about an office or how it should be done. Permanent presence gives mass room for professional assessment. The size has priority of $30 million. kr for special police action in this area, and if a minimum signal from the Storting was to be something that gave the population a sense of security out of this, now we can think that we should feel safer out here, at least that had to be a form of permanent presence as part of the 30 million bet. kr. There is no wrong detail control. The size has asked for a special bet in that area. Part of that effort must be that the people, the young, get policemen they can get to know.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2636	I think this debate is a rather peculiar notion. First, the Right Party and the Advance Party together with several parties choose to outsource perhaps the biggest administrative reform and centralisation reform we have had in the last 10 years – or 12-15 years. First, they choose to outsource it to a directorate. Afterwards, the rapporteur comes and says that the Stortinget, the national parliament of the country, cannot have, should not have, should not have views on an ongoing administrative reform in the Directorate. So we should not be allowed to propose improvements or changes to what is going on in a directorate, in an administrative reform. As the national parliament of the country, we should not have the opportunity to do so, because – in the words of the Right – we then put our heads in the wheels for what is going on. So the size has to keep the fingers of the barrel and preferably not discuss the matter because we can interfere with a directorate in work. But it must be allowed to have views about being able to have a responsible waitress at the offices that are now left. It must be allowed to have views that Holmlia must be able to be cared for with local presence. I must also say that I find it sad that the Right is once again trying to put the issue of combating crime against children or environmental crime up against the issue of local presence and prevention of crime. There's no need to put the two things up against each other. As was also pointed out in an article by the Workers' Party: The government has helped to break the deal — with lack of resources, with insufficient staffing. This also means that the government’s support for these changes is becoming increasingly thin. I must also be allowed to say that the Gjørv Commission cannot be used as a witness of truth. The majority have to stop doing that. It never gave a clear signal to the closure of 120 LEN's office – there is no room in the Gjørv Commission's report. On the other hand, there is a lot of talk about the culture and leadership of the police, so maybe you should be careful about using the police officers as truth witnesses for what's good or bad in the districts. They are not the voice of the districts in this picture. The Christian People's Party will not support the proposal. After all, they have become the government’s support staff on this issue now — the government’s only support staff. The left does not even take the floor in the debate today. They say very nicely, but it is called to wash their hands – in a slightly different language theme – when one chooses to do what the Christian People's Party does today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2651	I'd like to stay a little bit while talking about 'conservatism'. Conservatism can be good as long as a evnar takes along what is good, and scrapes what is wrong. My party, the Center Party, is a party that can act as irritating conservatives in some fields, because we, among other things. centralisation is not the solution to everything possible. The Right Party, on its side, would like to stand out as conservative, but has made radical changes in the structure and organisation of its main policy instrument – including when it comes to police reform. Paradoxically, they use this tool in a country with large distances, a disputed geography and many local variations, where centralisation over time causes us to gradually get a different type of country. It's just as if they want to make Norway less Norwegian, in close cooperation with the Progress Party. The centre party is conservative also in the case of borrowers. In the third proposal in this matter, we state that the office of a member of staff shall have a member of the staff. It's about securing local rentals at all the cannon offices. Former Minister of Justice Listhaug said that he proposed to us that we should state that every county office should have a gunman, was a threat to the work against pedophilia – of all things. Even the leader of the police management team believes that it is a problem if we are also to be able to track down a lenner in the future at every single office. There may be a whole bunch of bottoms in a misconception of what we in the Center Party think lentils are going to do. Of course, they should not only be managers, they should be able to participate in the day-to-day work, like the others in the office. However, having a local rental is of great value. The gentleman plays an important role not only in the society he occupies, but also in being a leader towards the others added to the office. In order to ensure a strong local police force, it is also important that the local leader has the necessary powers to take decisions locally. This may mean a lot, for example: in a crisis situation. The position as a grenademan is now to be converted into a police officer. This is basically the same human being. They're going to have the same pay, so economic considerations don't seem to be governing to remove the lenner from the lenner's offices. In addition, the retirement age will be lower for an overreacher than for a bilgeman. The representative, Angell Gimse, said earlier in the debate that the government parties have listened to police officers. Yeah, they probably have, and maybe there's something of the problem, because there's a lot more in the police action that has a sense of the police reform and what kind of direction it takes, and I don't think the government party has listened enough to that particular group. It has been said many times that culture, restraints and leadership should be high, that there should be a lot of police action, more openness, etc. I believe that this reform should also be open to the critical voices of the police action in its implementation if one is to be able to close the reform in place. That willingness doesn't have the government party, as it looks today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2668	Critical voices are not missing, and the Justice Committee is well aware of them. Many of those who have participated in our budget hearings have been very clear about what they have said about the police budget, for example. When we travel around the country, we don't just talk to police officers. We also talk to the trusted ones and with added ones. There will always be differences of opinion about a major reform, we do not get away from it. At the same time, I have to go back to a little bit of what we had in the line change here instead. I very seriously believe that the state budget, the annual budgets, must be associated with reforms that are being implemented. We have seen, under changing governments, that major reforms are having trouble because one does not intend to allow the resources to be allocated. For this reason, it is not quite as the representative Solvency Horne says, that the police districts got 100 million. kr more for 2018. Then she just takes the plus. One has to look at what's down: when one takes away the ABE cut, when one takes away the wage and price increase – the list is long – one comes to a cut that is well over 100 million. kr. Then there will be no room for action again – if one says it is important that the police officers have room for action, and I actually think everyone is some of us to delineate the detailed management. But there's not much to deal with, you can say, if you're sitting around with the opposite problem, that you have to add, that people who are sick don't get laid off. These states are familiar to us, and it worries the Working Party as a conciliator. Therefore, I sincerely hope and believe that we will receive a better proposal for the 2019 police budget. Otherwise, I am deeply concerned about the overall feasibility of this reform. Some of what we heard after the police analysis came in front of the police reform was that this should not be a savings reform. What I still think is very important. Then the representative takes up a promise to the inhabitants. One of the important areas of the agreement was that one should have good local processes and produce documents, to which Roppstad refers. It wasn't done. But, fortunately, it's not too late yet. I expect that when the structure is set up, they will draw up the documents in line with the agreement, so that you can actually see if you follow up the decisions we make today. Because there's one who wants to see it, and now there's another that's been in here once and for all. I don't think we can agree on several occasions that we should follow up on the agreement and that we should strengthen the local police. The only way to get this to work is to actually follow it up, and I have a clear expectation and hope for it to happen – for the good of the police, but also in respect of democracy and the decisions we make in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2677	The police reform was first called the ‘near-police reform’ by the government, but has subsequently been called the remote police reform on the population’s mouth. The reform has strongly centralized the police. 122 offices are to be closed down or have already been closed, and we are left with 225 offices on a national basis. Many of the offices that remain have lost local management and have been placed under other offices, which are partly far away from themselves. As a result, local police have been weakened. The local offices that are now left unmanaged and subject to other offices have lost room for action and the possibility of being present in their own areas, and some of the offices that are left now are as small as offices that have been laid down with the argument that they were too small. So can we trust that there will be no more closures? I think no. The government is once again trying to figure out the situation. But they know just as well as we do that police reform has encountered strong opposition both in the police and in the population in large parts of the country. I think it's funny that we have a debate here now where the government parties are trying to give us quite a lot of strange motives for the proposals we have made. It is not such that there should be a bilgeman in each office and nothing else but to wash the thumbs and open the door when there is an opening time at the bilgemanskontoret. But local loners mean that we can get a local police officer present in society. The policeman may be involved in the daily work of the police — may also be operational — and may use resources in an appropriate way for his area. I also support the repeated argument from the Minister of Justice and the government that the local police apparently do not need that much, because the crime scene has changed. But everyone here should know that crime is taking place in ordinary municipalities – in my municipality and in their municipalities. There are killings, child abuse, labour-life crime and fraud, drug production, import and trafficking, and child pornography. The local police don't always solve these challenges on their own, but they're actually dealing with a lot of these issues both alone and with assistance. Often, local police are crucial to prevent, to detect, to pursue crime — yes, to move out when emergency situations occur. The police reform that the government has put in place will be difficult. The local police are really not able to carry out these tasks in many places. It's bragged by new positions, it's bragged by a lot of money. We know from many debates here that it's not real. That's why I'm very happy that we get a majority for the first two points here, and I wish we also got a majority for the last time. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2692	The number is out.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2697	I realized that the question to the Council of State – it was possible it was rhetorical, but I choose to take it as a real question – was whether the government will follow up what is being adopted. Of course, the government will. It is intended that a proposal for real strengthening will be adopted and that a proposal for adequate staffing will be adopted. The government will follow up on that. So I'd like to add that it's not necessarily the same thing as a given frozen crew at some point in the history. The point is to have enough staff, and the point is to get a reinforcement. So it's important to put the quality first and then move resources, so that we get the real strength, and not count the number of heads. I understand very well the representative Arnstad's desire for some sort of conservatism in that way, and in many ways I would also have wanted some kind of conservatism, especially from the criminals. The problem is that they've become very innovative. It's a completely different type of crime, and it's other types of criminals, and it's what the change near-police reform has to answer to. It is still the case that this reform is not fully in line, but I believe that we are well on track, and I should like to discuss it again at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2704	To the post of the Council of State: the Council of State does not respond specifically to the questions asked. It's just to be clear whether the Council of State understands what the majority of the population believes, whether he's understood better than what his party traps and government colleagues in the Right, the Progress Party and the Left have done when they've written their comments and been to the pulpit here. Therefore, once again, I would like to ask the Council of State to come up here and state that the proposal for which there is a majority today, on the real strengthening of the remaining Länsmann offices, means that all the remaining Länsmann offices should be strengthened, whether he can confirm that when the majority of the Stortinget has said that all the remaining Länsmann offices should be strengthened, it means that all the remaining offices should actually be strengthened after the reform – not just that a total should have a strengthening, but that all the remaining offices, each office, should be strengthened. So to the representative Angell Gimse, who says that it is we who have promoted this proposal, who contribute to uncertainty. No, on the contrary! After all, we are basing on the structure adopted in the context of police reform. Although we disagreed with the reform, we have not proposed reopening offices or changing the structure. But we are concerned that the offices that remain should actually be ensured, that one should strengthen the remaining offices, that they should be adequately staffed. It is precisely the uncertainty that the Right Party and the Advance Party in the Chamber have contributed to. As far as the structure is concerned, it's not fixed now either. On 24 May last, the Ministry of Justice wrote that the map of Police Norway has now been drawn. Then you came a few months later, and then all of a sudden it's not finished drawing anyway. For example, from my own area: In my neighbouring municipality of Aurskog-Høland a final decision was made on 24 May, confirmed by the department, to strengthen the Länsmannskontoret at Bjørkelangen, and that Sørum and Fet were to be included there. So, all of a sudden, a few months later, you're going to have to rethink the question because there's been municipal mergers, with new structures, which makes you play the question again. The same thing happens elsewhere in the country. So the structure that one said was laid is in play. That's exactly why it's important that someone from the Grand Duchy, the elected representatives, show the direction here and not just let the Police Directorate continue its work on the ever more centralization of Police Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2716	To answer this question, if the Storting decides on a real strengthening of the remaining loner offices, the government will follow it up. If the Storting decides that there will be sufficient manning, the government will follow it up. The specific things that will then be followed up can always be discussed, but this is of course a matter of course: What the Storting decides, we intend to follow.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2721	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2737	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2746	First, I would also like to congratulate the new Minister of Justice. I look forward to cooperation and good debates on important issues. I will now briefly present the draft representative that we are going to debate. The case concerns the liquidation of the rental of prison sites abroad. The proposer refers to the agreement between Norway and the Netherlands on the rental of prison capacity concluded in March 2015 and approved by the Stortinget in June 2015. The reason for setting up a Norwegian prison outside Norway’s borders was to bring down the housing queue. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left, refer to a number of challenges in this system. Among other things, the Ombudsman has determined in his visit report on Norwayrhaven prison that prisoners transferred to Norwayrhaven prison are not adequately protected by Norwegian authorities against torture and inhuman or degrading treatment. Furthermore, it is a challenge that prison inmates in Norway do not have zones close to their family or their network and have a limited ability to implement ordinary leave. In addition, prisons have a lower educational provision than most Norwegian prisons and too poorly adapted rehabilitation to the Norwegian community. The work offered in prison offers little experience that prisoners can take advantage of outside the walls of Norway. In addition, the majority point out that forced transfers to settlements outside the country’s borders are a strong additional burden on individuals and can be perceived as a form of additional punishment. Therefore, it was good news that earlier this year, following massive pressure from the trade unions and the opposition on the Stortinget, the Minister of Justice stated that the contract for the rental of detention places in Norwayrhaven prisons in the Netherlands is not being continued and therefore the rental situation will cease from September 2018. This naturally invalidates the initial proposal to terminate the lease. The majority of the Committee therefore now considers that the Storting should decide, on a principle basis, whether to rent foreign prisons in the future. The question of renting prison places cannot only be re-assessed as a result of the winding-up of settlement queues in Norway. The majority point to the fact that the protection of fundamental rights for prisoners and the follow-up to the principle of subsidiarity argue that Norway should not in future rent foreign prisons. The majority believe that the civil ombudsman’s objections to prison in the Netherlands and the fact that prisoners do not have sufficient protection against inhuman treatment are equally central if it is to be re-assessed to rent prisons in the Netherlands or other countries. The goal of criminal care is for people to return to our society as our good neighbours. We have now learned that housing abroad can lead to a lack of contact with the society to which the prisoner is going to return. With it, both the rehabilitation of the prisoner and the goal of a safer society are at risk. The majority of the Committee would therefore now like to state once and for all that all compensation should be paid on Norwegian soil for Norwegian nationals. Under the government, led by the Right Party and the Advance Party, criminal services have been cut by over 200 million. kr. In addition, when the government has spent as much as 1 billion over the course of three years. kr for a prison project in the Netherlands, it shows that the money has also been used incorrectly. Yesterday, the Justice Committee was visiting Bodø prison. The feedback we received there has also been received from several prisons around the country. They show that the cuts in the ABE reform have affected the employees, it is cut in content, there is more violence and threats to employees, and there is more isolation and coercion against prisoners. This is going on in social security, and it's very serious. It's time for the money to be paid for the crime scene. When they are no longer to be used to send prisoners to the Netherlands, we hope they can go to strengthen the content of the prison. The majority of the Committee wishes to put an end to this type of negative action in the future and will ensure that the focus is reversed on the content of the settlement and the proper rehabilitation of prisoners. With this, I recommend to the majority that the Stortinget ask the government to present a legislative proposal laying down the principle that compensation should be paid on Norwegian soil for Norwegian citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2769	I would first of all also like to join in the congratulations to the new Minister of Justice and look forward to cooperation in due course. I would like to remind you that the foundation for concluding the settlement agreement with the Netherlands in 2015 was that there was a temporary solution to the acute capacity challenges that we had at the time in criminal custody. The condoms were well over 1,200 people, and the prison covering was close to 100 p.m. – an unsustainable situation for them to add, for them to commit and for society in general. The high coating made it almost impossible to implement the necessary maintenance and rehabilitation measures at prison. In addition, the maintenance capacity was very challenging. The government has in the period of the settlement agreements been in force, agreed on a historic capacity report for the Criminal Service and agreed on a record high expansion of closed prisons in Norway. This work has already produced results with the consequence that the government has now decided not to extend the temporary compensation agreement with the Netherlands. The Directorate of Criminal Welfare, KDI, is now working on a plan to phase out the renting of places in Norway’s prisons and measures to implement a relatively large duplication in Norwegian prisons. Capacity utilisation in Norwegian prisons is now slightly under 90pst. This is entirely in line with the aims and strategies of criminal services. A capacity utilisation of about 90 pst. provides an optimal balance between capacity use and potential for rehabilitation. In addition, criminal services provide the necessary flexibility to adapt and adapt to the best possible situation for individuals, and this flexibility has been developed as necessary and very positively from several levels of criminal justice. The critical lack of custody sites we saw in 2013, which suspected serious crime had to be released as a result of the capacity challenges, has now been resolved. Without agreement with the Netherlands, this would be very challenging. In general, I would suggest that prison sites in the Netherlands were a necessary and good temporary substitute for the lack of closed settlements in Norway. An in-depth assessment of each individual operation was carried out before a decision was taken on the transfer to Norwayrhaven. Health, training and family situation have been some of the points of assessment. They have been able to keep in touch with friends and family through Skype, and the inmates have been happy with their contact with the family. In Norway, prisons have been offered a range of rehabilitation programmes, including those in prisons. Alternatives to Violence and Lifestyle. There has been a Norwegian teacher in charge of Akershus County, and a range of in-depth programs. English, mathematics and data have been available. The prison has had its own libraries where it was set up for Norwegian content, activity hall, gym, art and crafts, fish competitions and sports tournaments. With the legacy that the red-greens left behind in 2013, I'm very surprised to experience the criticism that has emerged from the opposition in this matter, when one sees how quickly one has achieved the goal, to reduce the restitution queues and to start rehabilitating prisons in Norway. We would like to stress that from the very beginning it has been clearly communicated that the agreements with the Netherlands have always been meant to be temporary. Until the 300 new closed settlement sites in Agder are ready in 2020, we need to understand that the termination of this settlement agreement will result in an increased need for duplication in Norwegian prison, and – as mentioned earlier – KDI is in the process of planning. The budgetary implications are reflected in the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2790	From 2005 to 2009, I was a member of the Justice Committee. I guess there were no issues we debated more than the rising reconciliation queues, and how little the previous government did with it. One of the measures was well, except for Ullersmo, to introduce foot-link soning. When the government took over Solberg in 2013, we had a record high pay queue of 1,100–1,200 people. The cover in Norwegian prisons was over 100 p.m., which we know created major challenges for both the custody capacity we had, legal certainty and not least the rehabilitation and the work to be done for the prisoners. When one looks at this matter, one might wonder if the most important thing for individual parties in this room is the principle of where the criminals are going to zone, than of the zones. Getting rid of the atoning cows, getting the individual who has done a criminal act, is what's important – not where you son. This is why the Progress Party has fought to put in place temporary detention centres in other countries as well. We were very happy that we were able to put this agreement into place with the Netherlands. Temporary rental of detention facilities in the Netherlands has been absolutely necessary to bring down the housing queues, and that agreement has helped us to see that the housing queues have been removed. The agreement has also provided a room for action for criminal services to expand capacity here in Norway, and we now see that we have a capacity utilisation of 90 p.p., which provides an optimal balance between capacity use and the possibility of rehabilitation. Everything shows that renting prisons in the Netherlands was absolutely necessary, but it was also temporary. Therefore, I am glad that the government does not extend the prison agreement we have, as it is no longer necessary. And as the Council of State itself also responds in the letter to the committee, there is therefore no plan in the near future to conclude a new agreement. That's how no one can predict the future. For this reason, the Progress Party and the Right will vote against the proposal under consideration. There's probably been a failure during the surrender, because there's, as I said, no one who knows what the future is going to be like. Promoting a legislative proposal to establish a principle that compensation for Norwegian citizens should be provided on Norwegian soil will be wrong for us. I would also like to remind the proposers that in their proposal for a representative they also refer to 78 pst. of those who have sons or sons in the Netherlands, are non-residents and that 64 pst. of which they have been transferred on a voluntary basis. So having a principle that Norwegian citizens are going to zone on Norwegian soil is still going to be wrong for us. For the Advancement Party, it is important that those who commit a criminal act be promptly given their sentence. And if in the future settlement cows would arise, it's important for us to have the opportunity to make use of agreements with other countries, so that we can get rid of the reconciliation queues. I hope that I won't be necessary, but if that happens, we want that opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2809	The original proposal was to wind up the system of renting prisons in the Netherlands. Luckily, it has become superfluous to adopt because the government itself has gone in to cancel the lease, following strong pressure from the opposition, including us in the Center Party. Nevertheless, the proposal for a representative is important, because it gives the lead to the absence of such rentals of foreign prison sites in the future. The practice of sending Norwegian prisoners to housing abroad has been problematic, both because of the economy and because of basic principles. Crime prevention in Norway has been thinned to the gap with budget cuts over several years through the red tape and efficiency reform, which has gone directly beyond the first line and service production in Norwegian prisons. The Directorate of Criminal Welfare has warned that the budgetary situation for 2018 is almost unmanageable. At the same time, the government has maintained the rental of 242 foreign prison sites at a cost that finally reached over 300 million. kr annually. This money should have been used to build up prison capacity in Norway, to strengthen staffing and to improve the situation and rehabilitation in Norwegian prisons rather than to be sent out and financed foreign jobs. Then it's the principles. In principle, it is problematic to send Norwegian convicted persons for compensation abroad, and especially when it comes to Norwegian citizens – and Norwegian citizens who are sent there against their will. Detention through prison sentences is a serious intervention in a life. It is one of the most serious sanctions that the State can impose on a human being, a resident, and that sanction is reinforced when the prisoner is sent to a settlement in a country to which he is not linked. It makes visits by family and friends considerably more difficult, it provides poorer rehabilitation, it provides language challenges, it provides less educational provision and too poor access to health care and Norwegian specialist health services. We have seen many examples of this during the lease with the Netherlands. The Civil Ombudsman has made many critical points about the settlement conditions in Norway. It can be done, among other things: that the Norwegian authorities have waived the right to investigate criminal offences against Norwegian prisoners. In other words, the Norwegian authorities do not have the authority to investigate whether there is a breach of the prohibition of torture or inhuman treatment in Norway. The Netherlands authorities have also been given access to coercive measures against prisoners in emergency situations, and Dutch prison officials are responsible for implementing and enforcing the Norwegian Penal Code. The subsidiarity principle of the Penal Code is a very central principle when it comes to criminal enforcement. Prisoners are expected to zone in the vicinity of their place of residence as far as practicable and expedient. The Norwegian Penal Code also applies to prisoners referred to the Netherlands or another country, and there is reason to ask whether the practice of housing abroad is compatible with the principle of subsidiarity. These are issues with which we have experience from the Netherlands, but there are also issues that will arise if we send Norwegian prisoners to settlement in other countries in the future. Penalty enforcement is one of the fundamental responsibilities of Norway as a legal State. The central party believes that sending Norwegian prisoners to settlement in foreign countries is incompatible with several basic principles that it is important that we, as the legal state of Norway, must protect. That is why we are going to support the proposal that, in the future, no leases are to be entered into for housing abroad for Norwegian citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2826	First of all, thank you for the last article. I thought it was very good, it was as if I were going to say it myself. Those were very nice arguments. This case was initially about prison places in the Netherlands. Now it's turned into a fundamental case of whether we're going to have prison places abroad. In the government platform, the government agreed to have this scheme until 2020, at the time with the support of the Left. So much was the surprise when we heard in February this year that the government will not continue with this scheme, but will wind it up during August this year. It's a little funny that when we protested against this before Christmas, we got a response from Peter Frølich from the Right that one ‘can’s disposal the Netherlands when the time is ripe, but it’s definitely not now’. He said that in December. Two months later, the Minister of Justice went out and terminated the scheme. It is very good that the scheme has been terminated. In my view, it is a victory for our proposal, but perhaps not a victory for our arguments. The Minister of Justice and the representatives of the government parties argue exclusively in a practical way in this matter, and I think that is a bit outrageous to hear – as if prisoners are only practical packages and goods that can be sent here and there. It's ridiculed by a question of whether they're going to zone, or where they're going to zone. We're talking about people, we're talking about principles, and we're talking about fundamental rights. That's why we want to move this case away from the practical and a fundamental fundamental discussion about how we're going to treat people. Prisoners convicted in Norway shall zone in Norway. In my view, it is obvious and a basic premise. It is little thoughtful and little principle that the government parties will send prisoners unpacking from the country according to the need we have at any time to regulate the reconciliation queue. Norwegian institutions for Norwegian residents shall be in Norway, with Norwegian culture, Norwegian jobs, Norwegian tax revenue, Norwegian laws, etc. Although it is both expensive and there may be few employees in Norway, we need them here. This applies to children's homes, old-age homes, asylum receptions, etc. We have them in Norway because we think it's right to have them in Norway, but they're not prisons. For everyone else, the institution must be in Norway, but not for convicted persons. The government parties believe that we can send them to foreign institutions — with non-resident employees and foreign laws, away from close and dear ones, away from the criminal welfare trend that has prevailed in Norway for many decades. What kind of attitudes are these to the most marginalized in society? The question of the rental of detention centres cannot be transformed into a practicality, because it is about principles, and it is about human rights. That is why this proposal is correct and important. It's about not being able to send Norwegian citizens to make a living abroad. We're making an exception for non-residents who, after settlement, are not going back to Norway. And we can make a solution for that. The most important fundamental arguments are about what we can call the Human Rights Guarantee. It is the State that judges, who is always responsible for safeguarding the rights of the convicted person. This cannot be done when these persons are sent to another country. We have the same arrangements within the torture convention, for prisoners of war, etc. – it is the country that judges that has the responsibility of human rights. It is not possible for the Norwegian State to control the human rights of prisoners as zones in a prison in another country. In particular, I am surprised that the Right does not see and support this fundamental rule of law. The second point is the principle of subsidiarity in criminal custody. After all, prisons must facilitate the return of prisoners to a life of freedom without falling back into new crime after an atoning end. Then they must have contact with their loved ones and their old networks during the settlement. Everyone understands that it is absolutely impossible to son in another country. It's a fundamental violation of the principle of subsidiarity. The principle of subsidiarity is a principle which is also supported by the government parties, but in this case they believe that it is not right. The government parties are willing to break fundamental principles in terms of both human rights and proximity, and we are fundamentally opposed to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2843	The Christian People's Party was involved in the agreement to rent prisons in the Netherlands in its time. There were several reasons for that, but first I want to distance myself from the fact that it is a human rights violation to have to zone in the Netherlands, and I'm going to come back to it. One of the important arguments was that there was a long queue. It was a long queue, and one of the challenges is that there are people who should be allowed to start over. They have life on hold in many ways. The fact that we got a lot of places available in the Netherlands made more people get the zone faster. And as many people have been involved, the vast majority of the sons in the Netherlands are of foreign origin. So in terms of the principle of subsidiarity, it might have been closer to where they lived. In any case, it reduced the waiting time and allowed people to get on faster with their lives. Another major challenge was care places. In my own region, Agder, it was a big challenge that people who should have been put in custody couldn't be because the capacity had been blown up. We did something about that by freeing up capacity, and thus giving people who were at risk to society a place of refuge. A third argument that I think is at least important from the human rights point of view is that we had a lot of overshoots on smooth cell. There's a common agreement in this room that we had to do something about it, and Norway got scratched for it. But it was by releasing several spaces that we actually succeeded with a drastic decline, so that one now almost has no overshoots. It's not that the Christian People's Party thinks that renting places in the Netherlands was a fantastic good move, or that's how we're going to solve the criminal code. It was a short-term measure with a government commitment to start building new sites to meet the long-term challenge. That is why I would like to commend the government, and not least the Left, who, when they entered the government safely through negotiations, agreed to press forward that as soon as possible the agreement with the Netherlands would be abolished. It was in line with the Christian People's Party's thinking. Now we've freed up spaces, we've built spaces, and there's lots of spaces under construction, and then we can use them. The Christian People's Party has programmed that when the capacity is now built up in Norway, we do not want to rent more places abroad, precisely because it was a short-term solution. If the government chooses to conclude a new agreement, in any case, the Christian People's Party will vote against that agreement in Stortinget. But the Christian People's Party differs from the rest of the opposition in this matter. The Constitution gives the government the right to conclude an agreement. That right we don't want to constrain. There is something else to vote for an agreement in Stortinget, which is dependent on magnificence, rather than restricting a constitutional right, which I see far on the way that the majority of the Judicial Committee chooses to do when I read the vote. That is why we want to vote against the motion for a resolution. I want to address the resolution of the Christian People's Party, which concerns Easter Island prison. We are aware that it is planned to be closed, and we are also aware that it is on the basis of the fact that the foundation that owns the island that the prison leases wants to sell the island. For us in the Christian People's Party, it is important to make it clear that the fact that we are promoting this proposal, which means that any closure of the prison must be taken into the concept selection investigation, is not an obligation for the state to have to buy the island. It's an important premise. But that means that you get a comprehensive treatment of the case, you get it in connection with the needs, and then you better come back to how to solve the settlement capacity when the concept selection inquiry is available. But it is important for me to clarify that there is a long way from being a liability for a purchase.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2860	The representative has addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2865	I think it's worth recalling the situation we had in 2013. The cows for atonement were too long. As of 31 December 2013, 1,176 persons were present in housing queues. It was an increase from 768 one year earlier. I believe that was both wrong to the victims and sent out the wrong signals to society. There was also no good situation for those who had to wait a long time to start their atoning. Today there are fewer than 140 in the queue. Renting of Norwayrhaven prisons in the Netherlands, with 242 prisons, has been an important measure to meet the need for high-security sites. The measure was central to achieving a good situation with a minimum queue and a better transition from police detention to custody, which we now have. Of course, renting by Norwayrhaven prison has not been a goal in itself, but a useful tool to bring down the housing queues. Since the need for additional places is now smaller, it is decided not to extend the agreement with the Netherlands. That is to say, the rental relationship ends on 31 August 2018. There will still be a need for additional facilities in prisons with a high level of security when the tenure ceases. Until new prisons in Agder are clear in 2020, this need known to be met by doubling cells in prisons in Norway. The home of criminal enforcement in another country, Section 1(a) of the Penal Code, shall be repealed on 1 September 2020. Without this provision, it is natural to interpret the Penal Code in order to apply it only in Norway. Thus, it would not be appropriate for Norway to rent prisons abroad. At present, there are also no plans for new, similar agreements with other countries. In my opinion, the establishment of a principle of housing on Norwegian soil for Norwegian citizens would be an unnecessary measure. The recommendation of the Judicial Committee is limited to Norwegian citizens. In the context of the introduction of today’s penal code in another country, the prohibition of discrimination was assessed. The Ministry of Justice and Defence then concluded that the legal provision had to apply equally to Norwegian and foreign prisoners so that one would not conflict with the principle of equality in the Constitution, Norwegian legislation on discrimination or with the provisions on discrimination in the international conventions. Norway is bound by the conventions concluded. In view of this, I would like to say how a principle that will only apply to Norwegian citizens would be based on the fact that a cause for discrimination would have to be considered very carefully. Let me briefly comment on the solution that concerns Osterøy. I have considerable sympathy for wanting to assess Osterøy as well. On the part of my department, we feel that that assessment has been far on the way, even if we are going to review it if it becomes a majority. The situation is that this is a building and property that the state does not own. So it's a prison state doesn't own it. Furthermore, those who own the prison and the island have cancelled the lease. And it looks like we'll get overcapacity in that area. It's on the basis that we've decided not to take Osterøy in this round, but if the Storting wants it, we'll of course evaluate it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2887	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2892	The Labour Party believes that a prison structure that also maintains the small and unique settlement offers is important to our country. Does the Council agree with this assessment? So I'm going to ask myself another question. How does the Council of State think that this money, which is now no longer to be used for housing in the Netherlands, can be used to strengthen the provision of housing in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2899	To start with, there is still a need to invest in the prison sector, and there is a need that we will of course come back to in the various budgetary processes. So to the question of small units, and let me say it this way, given the previous debate: I have so much considerable sympathy for the desire to spread police people all over the country. It's hard to understand this desire to spread prisoners all over the country in the same way. Here it is also important that the offer itself is good enough. Just as crime has changed, and the criminals have changed, it is important that we have prison services that are adapted to this, both in terms of repatriation, repatriation to society, and in terms of security.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2906	Yesterday, as mentioned earlier, the Justice Committee was visiting Bodø prison. The feedback we received there — and as we have received from several prisons around the country — shows that the consequences of the ABE reform in criminal care are that it is cut in the number of employees. It is cut in content. More violence and threats are reported against the prison staff and more isolation and coercion against the prisoners. This can ultimately lead to social security. It concerns us in the Workers' Party. How does the Council of State address this concern?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2913	The government is also concerned about the safety of employees and the current situation, but not least about the situation we have had. It is true, as the representative says, that the crime scene — and therefore those who are admitted to prison — is of a different kind than before. It's harder, it's tougher, and the government will, of course, take this seriously in the assessments we're going to have, when we're going to make an assessment of both the need for prison places and the resources we need to ensure that the settlement conditions are good for those who need to zone, and for those who have to work there.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2918	As we have already heard, the resource situation in many prisons throughout Norway is a little poor. The reform of red tape and efficiency has led to a reduction of nearly 200 million in prison budgets. kr, and it's gone beyond the first line, that is, those who work in prisons with the inmates. It's not just administration and organization. In the budget agreement concluded between the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party last year, 89 million were allocated. kr to extend the lease with the Netherlands in 2018. However, when the agreement is not to be extended, I hear that the Council of State says it is a budgetary issue. My question is whether the Council of State can guarantee that these funds will be redeployed to the police in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2925	We are continuously forecasting the capacity we need, and the most important thing we can now remember is that precisely for this type of high-security housing, we are waiting – and hope – for a new prison to be ready in 2020. There will be a significant strengthening of the measure for reconciliation and for employees just for this type of criminal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2930	This is money that is in criminal custody, which has been spent on a lease. But criminal services need money to be able to mannify, to have sufficient staff, to be able to provide rehabilitation services in prisons. So there are many places in criminal care where this money can be spent. I wonder then: does the Council of State see the need for more resources in the criminal justice system for prisoners to have a better offer and for employees to have a better working day? And is it relevant for the Council of State to give a guarantee that this money will not disappear to other areas, but will be in criminal custody to improve the situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2935	We have government budget negotiations in the autumn, and we have revisions of the budget in the spring, and then we set different measures against each other. There is no doubt that I have a desire to strengthen this sector, but we must also respect the fact that the Storting cannot carry out budgetary proceedings all the time. It's also hard for the Ministry of Justice to do. But I look forward to having a debate on these issues at the budgetary procedure for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2940	I record that the new Minister of Justice continues to argue only in a practical way when he talks about convictions. They are counted, and they are assessed from where there is room for them — whether there is room for them in Norway, or whether there is room for them abroad. They are only numbers in a large statistic, and they are moved around solely for practical reasons. So my question to the Minister of Justice is, does he not see any human rights aspects of this system? Isn't he, like the Civil Ombudsman, concerned that the Norwegian State does not have the opportunity to guarantee the human rights of those convicted who are going to serve abroad? As Minister of Justice, it is the prime responsibility of the Council of State to ensure that the Norwegian State guarantees the human rights of the population, no matter where in the world they may be. How does the Minister of Justice want to ensure this?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2947	Although we count prisoners in prison queues and inside prisons, it is not a question that is purely practical. The need to wait for the zone, not to start the settlement, also raises some fundamental questions for those who are going in and out, and it's also a burden in itself. I have a considerable sense of the fundamental questions in it, but we can't break them off from it that we actually also have to have the capacity to do what we want to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2953	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2958	The representative Petter Eide says that the entire government argues very practically and not in principle. I will then join in the whole of the principal performance that Petter Eide had in his post – I don't have to repeat it when I say that I fully agree with these principal arguments. At least this representative – and not just this representative, but the whole Left Party – agrees with the basic arguments against foreign detention. We've been against these prisons all along. I understand that the opposition says that it is under strong pressure from the opposition that the government has chosen to wind up these prisons, without mentioning the efforts of the Left. I can understand that, but at the same time, I think it's right to mention that the Left has made a not insignificant effort to get these prisons settled. We are very pleased that the Minister of Justice and the Government confirm that there will not be any more such leases. That must also be mentioned in this debate. Now I also hear – I will be very brief – that several mentions have a strong need to establish that there are no more prison places abroad. That is why they are promoting this proposal for a decision on a principle. This principle, that ‘The government asks the Government to submit legislative proposals which lay down the principle that compensation should be provided on Norwegian soil for Norwegian citizens’, is not exactly what they may propose. In that case, it might also be suggested that there should be no more settlements in the rest of the world. It could have been a more precise proposal. I am a little uncertain about what this proposal would say – if it is adopted as it stands – for example. for those who are sons abroad today because they have committed criminal acts abroad and have been convicted by other courts. If you were to apply this principle, it means that compensation is to be paid on Norwegian soil for Norwegian citizens. So the Norwegian State is going to start bringing back all Norwegian citizens as sons abroad. At least the wording here is a little bit upresis. In any case, I am very pleased that the Christian People's Party does not endorse this, because it is intervening in the government's prorogatives. Nor do we agree with this proposal, and the resolution of the proposal that the Christian People's Party has promoted will also vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2969	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2974	I would like to comment on the prison on Ulvsnesøy in Osterfjorden. There's a discussion that's come up quickly, and where it might be necessary to clarify the facts. We are facing a situation where the foundation, which is the landowner and rents out to the state, has terminated the agreement. They want to clarify whether the State wants to buy the island and the prison, or whether they want to wind up their business on this island. It's a very fair position, but it's also a tough message to the state: either you buy, or you liquidate. Faced with that dilemma, it has not been possible to find money to continue the operation that is there today. There is no politician in Hordaland who would say that there is no great effort in this prison, but faced with a difficult choice, where you have to buy an island for perhaps less than 100 million. It has been assessed that this money can be used better for other purposes. It is up to the opposition to continue operations, an enormous responsibility when they send out hopes to both employees, prisoners and other people who care about the operation of this island. Now that they have sent out signals that this might continue, all parties voting for this should show that they feel serious in their alternative budgets for next year. It should be noted that a minimum of 50 – probably 70, perhaps less than 100 – million is earmarked. NOK for the purchase of the island. If I don't want to describe it as a fraud against those who are happy in the eye, who work there, as zones there, and who care that it is going to continue operating as today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2983	I wanted to contribute some historical knowledge. The representative Solveig Horne mentioned that she was on the Justice Committee in 2005 and during the period we were in government, but I'm a little unsure whether she didn't follow along well enough, or maybe the representative didn't want to take the whole picture. Because when we entered the government in 2005, the settlement cows in Norway were 2,566. When we left in 2013, the settlement queues were 1,096. It is then both wrong and something special to claim that today's government took over a record large pay queue. It wasn't the government of the day. The reconciliation queue under the Stoltenberg government actually went down more – to 1,096 – than he has done today, and it can be verified and checked for those who want it. Nevertheless, I would like to say that it is very good and positive that one has got the reconciliation queue to say away. It's very positive. But one should not pretend that the only way to get it was to rent prisons in the Netherlands. It wasn't. At the beginning of the previous period, the Minister of Justice, from the Progress Party, was also involved. in Telemark and promise 100 new prison places in Telemark prison. It was fully possible to expand existing prison capacity in Norway with potable projects. That one chose the Netherlands is an honest thing. We debated there a lot in the Storting, we disagreed in that solution, and I also think that the after look at the social economy in it will not necessarily be particularly good either. I would also like to highlight the concerns raised by the representative Maria Aasen-Svensrud when it comes to social security. For now, then, we are in a situation where prisons around Norway are more or less the most active in keeping stakes, more isolation, cut programme activities, which is serious, given that prisons represent a social security institution. In contrast to the slightly good mood we met at the Nordland police district, the moods were not particularly good when we met them and not least the trustees in Bodø prison yesterday. Therefore, it is not quite as the Minister of Justice says that it is obvious that the government should take this seriously. This I think is proven to be one of the government's non-priority areas, and it has consequences. Otherwise, I would encourage representatives from the government to listen to the representative Njåstad from the Hordaland Progress Party, because he said in the debate on the NRK to me that if the ABE cut went beyond the operation in prison, we had to do something, because that was not the case. Yes, good justice ministers and colleagues, that's how it is, and it's going to have consequences that we don't want to like. It has to do something about it, and one has to get a leverage for Norwegian prisons in the budget for 2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e2994	First, thank you to the SV who have put forward proposals to wind up settlements in the Netherlands. Several people have said that it's not important every son, but it is. The decision on housing in the Netherlands was an unworthy decision on gross domestic product which should never have been supported. We know that one third were sent to the Netherlands against their will – even if the Stortinget said otherwise. We know of two known suicide attempts – one in Bergen and one in Oslo – of inserts that were to be sent to the Netherlands against their will. It's pretty serious. So the proposal to introduce a principle that settlement in Norway for Norwegian citizens is to take place on Norwegian soil should be given multiple terms, of propensity. So to the loose proposal of the Christian People's Party on Ulvsnesøy. The centre party supports this, and the proposal from SV and the centre party if the same has been withdrawn. Since 1982, the 95-target island of Sørfjorden, Osterøy Municipality, has had an agreement with the Criminal Service on prison operations. Today there are 31 shelters there, and 9 is set for women. The results of the school are very good. More exams have been taken here than in Halden Prison, which has 250 places. There is already a project running to assess whether one can make Ulvsnessey a clean female prison. It is shown that the need for space is falling in criminal custody. Yes, it may be like this for the whole country, but now we're waiting for a KVU, and it's not certain that this is the same for the West Region. Then it's referred to economics. To the representative Peter Frølich: Is it certain that a closure of Ulvsnesøy will result in savings? What is unprofessional in this matter is to adopt a closure of Ulvsnesøy before a KVU for criminal services in the West Region has been completed. And that's what we in the opposition have managed to gather on: we're asking for the whole natural thing to happen, that when you're going to develop a KVU for the West Region in criminal care, one of course also has to wait for such a sudden closure of Ulvsøj as it is now. There are also questions about the hundreds of millions of people who need to keep the building mass at bay. In 2016, this figure was 44 million. kr. We have to get the consequences on the table, and it has to happen in a KVU. Something else is unprofessional. I would like to thank the other opposition parties for their cooperation on this matter, especially the other representatives from Hordaland, and I am very pleased that we are getting a majority for this proposal today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e3005	I want to follow up the thread from Kjersti Toppe. I think it is very wise and right that a majority in this Chamber today agree that Ulvsnessey should become part of the KVU process that is now to be carried out. As the representative Kjersti Toppe was inside, they have the best school results in the country. They have very good results in terms of return to ordinary society, away from crime. It's attractive places to settle. There have been strong reactions to putting it down as it appears to work very well before implementing the KVU. In this room, it has been repeatedly asked why the KVU for Western countries has not been launched. There are major challenges elsewhere also in the West, both in Sunnhordland, in the Haugaland, in Ålesund and Bergen, and not least there are challenges in places for women. Then to my colleague Peter Frölich, whom I record, has left the hall and who refers to the facts. The fact is that it is absolutely right that there is a foundation that owns the land and the island of Ulvsnessey. They had a purpose: to take care of measures for children and young people, from the time they were sent on the island. Of course, this objective has not been met. But the municipality of Bergen, which today is governed by the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, has been quite clear that there is no pressure on sales, and that the low rent will be maintained until the KVU process is completed. So I don't think that's relevant.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e3014	The Labour Party believes that a prison structure that facilitates the diversity of different settlement options is good and important in order to achieve the objective of good rehabilitation of prisoners and good opportunities for return to society. The small and unique prisons play an important role in this diverse structure. The Osterøy Department of Bergen Prison is such a unique settlement offer. The working party is concerned that the government, apparently with a pen stroke, has decided to close the offer. The fact that this is also done before the notified West KVU is clear underlines our concern that this is a decision that has been made without an adequate assessment of the whole of the West’s settlement offer, without having received the necessary overview of the need and variation of the West’s settlement offer. The Labour Party will support the resolution promoted by the Christian People's Party, and we will also stress the Christian People's Party's explanation and intention that this proposal does not deal with the purchase of the island by the state, as my colleague from the Workers' Party underlined in his statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e3023	The agreement between Norway and the Netherlands on the rental of prison sites was concluded in 2015. It was necessary to bring down the reconciliation queues, and it worked. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and SV did not support that agreement at the time and still maintain that, as a matter of principle, there should be no renting of detention centres, even if the capacity in Norway has been decommissioned. SV's representative Petter Eide today is calling for a fundamental fundamental discussion. The fundamental fundamental discussion is to be given to them. Criminals shall pay their dues and not be released. The representative calls it a little thoughtful and little principle – well, there is the Progress Party and SV disagree. Norway had to rent prisons in the Netherlands pending the expansion of capacity in Norway. The crisis with the lack of custody sites that we saw in 2013, when the Progress Party and the Right took over the government offices from the Workers' Party, has now been managed. The working party is proud to have halved the cows during its reign. I am proud that the Progress Party has helped almost to remove them. Suspects of serious crime must no longer be released due to a lack of capacity. It is difficult to understand why SV is, in principle, more concerned not with renting prisons in the Netherlands than with the fact that the option is only for criminals to be released, or put in long-term cows. The Progress Party is concerned that criminals should be penalised, and is proud to have been removed from the settlement queues. Now the Progress Party is looking forward to completing the prison at Agder. 200 new prisons in Fromand and 100 new prisons in Mandal are now being prepared. Installation and start-up at construction sites is in the process of being completed. The main discussion requested by SV should first recognise the need to remove the cows and the fact that the government has actually ensured the construction of several prisons in Norway. Pending that completion, the Progress Party cannot see that we had any choice but to rent prison places abroad, and the government should have been commended for having shown the power of action in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e3036	It was the representative Frülich who made me take the floor, on the basis of his comments that there is a huge responsibility and a long way to go – I don't remember exactly his words – that we are misleading the people with the proposal that concerns Osterøy. I would just like to quote the first part of the proposal, which says that the government should not put the prison ‘before the Storting is presented with the consequences of any continuation of operations’. That's an important point. The possibility has been revised, where the Council of State may make an impact assessment of the proposal. If that's how I feel, if it's a support for the proposal, it's an important premise. But of course we have a desire to continue the operation, and that is an important point of the proposal. We experience that KDI uses a wish to sell as well as a reason to shut down the operation, and therefore we want to have it as part of the KVU, so that one also sees the whole of the need that is. It was probably the representative Grung who was in on it, but anyway: we have heard amounts other than 100 million. kr, to which the representative Frülich was in – down to 7 million. kr has been said as a price – but one was also concerned that the foundation might be able to imagine further rentals. Therefore, it is important to find out more about the causes, and at least the Storting wishes to present itself with the consequences. Then you might have to consider what is possible after that. As I said, from the Christian People's Party, there is no obligation for the state to buy the island. We want to see the consequences of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e3045	I really didn't mean to say anything more in this debate, but then I got a little rinsing bucket from a Progress Party politician – like I'm in charge of some kind of release-prisoner-free policy. That's not what this is all about. This concerns some fundamental principles of the rule of law. Those convicted of punishment in Norway are to be zoned in such a way that fundamental human rights are respected and fundamental criminal care and the principle of subsidiarity is respected. In this way, we take good care of the criminal community. We get convictions to return to a life of freedom without falling back quickly to crime, and we observe some basic humanist traditions in Norwegian jurisprudence and Norwegian criminal justice. That's what's been the basic thing in this case. Renting prisons abroad is a practical idea. But the practical ideas should not thwart the fundamental principles and human rights aspects of this matter. There's a lot of ways to cut a payoff queue. It is not the case that someone is in the queue for restitution, that all other conditions should be trampled on. And reconciliation queues are definitely not to trump human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e3057	Since SV repeats its arguments, let me be very clear on behalf of the Progress Party: the principal questions are very important, that people who have committed criminal acts should be punishing, getting done, being rehabilitated and moving on in society. We all agree on that. The aspect that is always lacking with the SV's approach to these issues is: What about the principle of victims? What about the relatives of the victims? What about the basic needs of society for security? There is something that is persistently absent when SV's representatives address issues in the field of justice. It's also an important part to bring with it. Secondly, to the historic committee leader: it is enough that the Workers' Party was able to reduce the pay queues. But how did that happen? Well, you gave over 500 years of early release. Then the representative Eide can say that he does not stand for a release-prisoner-free approach. But that's exactly what happened under the red-green government. So you gave over 500 years of early release of convictions so that there would be room for new ones who were going in to zone. This gave rise to a major problem, namely the political review of Norwegian courts. They review Norwegian courts when they have imposed penalties, and they release prisoners early in order to find room for new prisoners who are waiting to son, settle and get on with their lives. It is a development that we in the Progress Party could not sit and watch when we came into government. This has been an area of activity, both for the sake of those who are to zone and settle, and for the sake of relatives and victims of crime and respect for the courts. When a Norwegian court imposes a penalty on someone, it is to execute that penalty. Then you can't do what the red-green government did: to release the prisoners to make room for others. Therefore, it was absolutely necessary to rent these prisons in the Netherlands. It was a good move, and we are proud of that in the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e3066	I thought Mazyar Keshvar drew up an important element that has not been sufficient in the debate here today; it is the care of those who are victims of crime, relatives. I think it's strange that a leader of a policy for Norwegian prisons that weakens prison as a social security institution – when a cutback in the repeater project at Oslo prison, when a cutback in the program business to make those who came in as criminals, less criminals when they come out, when this becomes weak. I think it's a misguided policy not to understand that the work on content and quality in prison is extremely important for victims of crime, for relatives. Some people are sitting around for a very long time, but many of them are going out again. What is it that sends out again in society to cut the quality of the programme? What I mean is completely sub-communicated in many of the debates we have, we often lock ourselves in some structures. There I think there is a great difference between the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party – the opposition in the Stortinget – and the policy that this government has pursued over several years, because one has given priority to others, that is an honest thing. When one now travels around Norway and visits large and small prisons: those who work in closed wards with dangerous inmates say that they are horrified that they are not getting their job done and that they are locking up mentally ill people on security cells. They're as long as 92 days – well documented by the Civilombodsmann. It's a bad victim care policy, because it means we can get more dangerous criminals when they come out. There I demand action. I think it's serious that a person now gets a more dangerous deployment population. It's not just because the crime scene is changing, it's because one actually has cut, the food feed, the criminal services and the contents of it over so many years. Professional organisations – listening to those representing the NFF, listening to those who are trusted – are not just concerned, they are cursed. When we visited Bodø prison yesterday, more people said that the situation we're in now is sick. That's what I mean to be serious. Then I thought it would be a pompous thing to be so proud of a reconciliation queue – as an absolutely fast praise for being gone – when our counter-argument is that one could do it in another way. It would have been quite possible, but I welcome the debate. More focus on those who are victims of crime – it looks like the Progress Party may have forgotten when they now run the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e3075	Petter Eide has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e3080	I take the floor for a brief comment because I think that Mazyar Keshvari kind of ridicules this debate and caricates it a little bit by saying that SV's approach to this is not about focusing on the victims. First, that's not what this case is all about, and second, I would say to the representative Keshvari that it doesn't help victims and future victims that the justice authorities don't care about the rule of law, human rights and good criminal care. It doesn't help the victims. On the other hand, it helps victims and future victims that we have a justice sector, a Minister of Justice and Justice who keep a high level of understanding of the rule of law and criminal justice. Unfortunately, in this debate the Progress Party has not shown that they understand it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e3085	You don't want to listen to the arguments. I have agreed with the representative Eide from SV. When it comes to treating people, we should never just view it as a practical number etc. We're going to look at the human, and I mentioned it, the human by standing in a reconciliation queue and not being allowed to settle. But what I also mentioned is that in those debates – and that is quite right – SV never mentions the victims, never related to the victims, never the basic need of society for security and, not least, the respect for our courts that have sentenced people to punishment they have to execute. Then I heard the representative from the Workers' Party talk about that there were other ways you could do it, and that we're not concerned about the victims. It was a strange post. We know what was the Workers' Party's recipe for removing the reconciliation queues. It was not to be able to act, it was not to use the instruments available under the law. It was giving over 500 years of early release. That's the way the Workers' Party brought down the cows in Norway. Then it's no wonder I say I'm proud. I can repeat that. Both in the interests of those who have been punished, so that they can settle and be finished, and in the interests of the victims, their relatives and society, it is necessary to see the whole chain of punishment together. It's not just useful to strengthen part of it, or start talking about that if we hadn't removed the reconciliation queues by using capacity in the Netherlands, things would have been better. We don't have any reason to claim that. I record that the employee party representative has nothing in his post about how they perceive that they could resolve this in a different and better way. Their approach was simply to release prisoners early, so that there was room for new prisoners. It is an approach to the justice sector from which we, in the Progress Party, are very far away. We believe that people who are being punished should pay their dues.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e3092	The representative, Lene Vågslid, has had the word twice in the past and is given the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e3097	The alternative is very clear, and we have debated it many times in the Justice Committee. I've said it several times today. It would have been quite possible to build up existing prison masses. If one had started a little earlier, it could even have been clear much earlier – it would have been quite possible to do so. And the debate about the Netherlands, one should not pretend it's not controversial. It shows the debate here today, and we are pleased that it will be resolved. Then Mazyar Keshvari is busy talking about "tow the prisoners free." But the history of the representative is not particularly accurate. It was our government that terminated that arrangement. That's good, what I think was right, and then the representative should be something more despicable in his storytelling in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e3104	The representative of Mazyar Keshvari has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e3109	It's strange then – if it's just building more capacity, why didn't the Workers' Party do it? Eight years of pure majority government, and then there were no concrete plans when the new government came and took over as one could carry on. When it comes to being despicable, I'm completely despicable. You can test it and see how the Workers' Party and the Red-Green Government got rid of the cows in Norway. It was simply by letting the prisoners go before time and thus overseeing Norwegian courts, and it is a situation we in the Progress Party do not want to go back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e3116	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e3132	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have subscribed to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e3141	The background for the examination of this matter is a proposal from the SV, which has been subsequently changed in the Committee's proceedings. In the original proposal, the government asked the Swedish Government to come back to Stortinget with a proposal on how criminal law can be changed with a view to defining electoral instruments as sexual relations without genuine consent and in line with international conventions. The proposers wrote in the proposal that ‘existing criminal law should be amended to define that all sexual contact should be voluntary’. In the examination of the cases, the proposers themselves have drawn up that proposal, and SV and the Workers' Party are tabling a new proposal. I would like to refer to the proposal, which reads: «The government asks the government to propose a change that makes it clear § 291 of the Penal Code so that the wording better reflects the prohibition of sexual intercourse without consent. [[involuntary sexual intercourse]] The proposal shall not change the content of the applicable law.’;» All parties to the Judicial Committee are some that the law we have today prohibits sexual intercourse without consent. What we are not aware of is whether there is a need to clarify this in criminal law. But I want to repeat that we are some that it follows from current law that sexual intercourse without consent is illegal, and that's the most important thing. No one should believe that in Norway it is just to get right – that there is a law of sexual intercourse without consent. So it's not. There should be no doubt that today's vote, although the wording does not explicitly state it, is to be understood in that way. In connection with this, we have to go back a little to a decision of a mass collapse in 2017, in which Norway ratified the so-called Istanbul Convention. A total accumulation ended with it at the Ministry's assessment that our national law is in line with Article 36 of the Istanbul Convention, which demands that the states ratifying the Convention have a prohibition against sexual intercourse without consent. I think it is good that it is also fixed by the Council of State in the letter to the Committee. It is good that the Council of State clearly confirms that we already have a prohibition against sexual intercourse without the consent of Norwegian criminal law, all the time it does not appear clearly enough in Section 291. So here are the department and the Stortinget some in the law. It may seem strange to ask for a change of laws when the Department and the Stortinge are some of today's legal status, but the public debate about consent has shown that not everyone out there has come to realize that this is how this law is to be understood. Many people don't know that this is the legal state. For this reason, the Labour Party and SV believe that there is a need for an explanation of the perpetrators of sentencing in criminal law – not to change the legal status, but to indicate that sexual intercourse is illegal today without consent. I think it's important that it's easy for people to understand what's legal, and what's illegal, and I thought that because it's a little strange that not a mass mass today can stand behind what's a pure interpretation of the existing right. It's a brutal crime. It affects most women and is a major problem for real equality. The National Knowledge Centre on Selected and Traumatic Stress found in an investigation in 2014 that one in ten Norwegian women have been exposed to election during life, almost half of them before the age of 18. We know that few people report electoral articles, and the entire committee shares the view of the proposers that much of it may be due to the fact that the rate of deletion of such messages is very high – 80 pst., as the proposers also write. We need to do a lot more to defeat the electorate, and the Labour Party stresses that we fully support the comments of the Center Party on the subject, that we need a mandatory action plan against selection, as we suggest in Stortinget in the previous period, but that did not get multiples. I take our proposal into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e3161	The representative, Lene Wagslid, has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e3166	I share the intention behind the proposal. We all want to combat rape, but such a consent law as the one we are dealing with here today does not have anchoring in reality and becomes symbolism policy, which can even work against its purpose. For many years I have been working in the police with sexual abuse and violence in close relationships and know how difficult the warrants are in these kinds of cases. Words are often opposed to words, and what has happened is rarely witnessed. The last thing we need now is laws that make it even more difficult to prove that a rape has taken place. The challenge in this type of case is the typical evidence situation, combined with the strict evidence requirements of criminal law. It results in a not insignificant proportion of omissions and acquittals. The order rate will not be remedied by giving us a consent-based rape definition. Instead, it could contribute to the focus on insulting consent, rather than against the perpetrator's action. There will be a large backstep for offended people and can make the burden of reporting even greater. In the context of the Swedish discussion of similar proposals, it was also found that there are some elements of such a legislative proposal that could become problematic. These included: said that consent must be obtained for each new moment brought into sexual action. This complicates such a proposal and may also lead to the need to contract sexual acts. The proposal to define rape as sexual intercourse without consent has been investigated several times, but has been abandoned. You'll rarely be able to give good evidence that insults have not consented. Both the Riksadvokat and the Bar Association thought that there was no need to change the existing law. Today's rape regulations also try to circle in those cases where sex is not voluntary. It is done by mentioning in the law circumstances that exclude consent, such as that the perpetrator has committed violence, acted threateningly, or that insulting was unconscious or unable to oppose the act. When the previous consultation around a consent law circulated, no one could give examples of involuntary sexual intercourse that is not covered by applicable criminal law. You have to be careful to change laws and principles just to signal that you're against what everyone's against. Lene Vågslid said it very clearly here instead, that sexual action without consent is actually not allowed today. We agree with today's legal situation. Therefore, we should leave the law as it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e3183	The representative, Angell Gimse, said very clearly what the government's view of this is, but I just want to make a few brief comments. We all have a common goal of combating rape. We are many who are very concerned about the extent of the rape, and that there are so few who report and seek help after a rape. Violence can have major consequences for the individual who is exposed to it. That is why it is important to combat rape. I am pleased that this is a work that the government prioritises. The police have been given more resources. We've also changed the penal code. Prevention measures have been initiated. I also want to mention the establishment of the victim care offices around all the police districts, which have been a battle cause for the Progress Party. We know that it is difficult when you have been subjected to an action, to seek help, to report – and where you stand alone afterwards. I have great faith that the victim care offices can help – and perhaps make more people report and seek help after a rape. But the important thing is to be able to prevent it. We are very critical of the proposal now under consideration. As also the case rapporteur here very clearly said: Rape is a criminal act today, it is very clear. But it's the way one wants us to change, not to change, but to make something clear that doesn't change. We have a good penal code today, and we can't change it for the purpose of sending a signal, when that's not the problem today. The desire to change the wording without changing the content of the current law may also, as others have done, be counterproductive. I believe that today's law in practice covers the cases where a person wants to engage in involuntary sexual intercourse. It's the lack of current rules that's the challenge, but often it's perhaps the unbridled evidence that can be difficult. We have also had the consequences of the Swedish proposal, where we should be able to document each step in such an action. It can also cause the burden of proof to be often passed on to the woman who is being raped. Today we could read about the Bryne route, which has introduced links that one should start filming an consent. When DIXI Resoursenter against rape goes out and says that maybe it's going a little too far to film, but that it's important to document each step, we've come into a situation that we don't want. A no is a no, and the penal code is clear that it is a criminal act when it is not consent. As I started with, we all have a goal to fight rape. For us, it is important that we give priority to improving police investigations. I am pleased that we in the government platform and in the Jeløya platform are very clear that we need to strengthen our efforts against rape and police competence in this area. That's where we have to put in the resources, and not do a symbol action, as someone in the committee here wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e3198	Violence is a serious and unacceptable offence, which unfortunately affects too many women and men in Norway today. Everyone here agrees that sexual intercourse without consent, i.e. rape, must be combated. I'm very happy about that. It's probably a little bit because we live in Norway, that we focus so much on it. As Lene Vogschlid and others have pointed out, there is also complete agreement that sexual intercourse without consent is prohibited today. It is serious that the detention rate is high, it is serious that many rapes are never reported. Action to combat rape is essential, both in order to prevent, to improve the legal certainty of victims and to strengthen the reception of rape or care for victims, and we also look forward to the government providing an obliging action plan against rape, in line with the decisions taken on rape. However, the Central Party believes that the proposal to amend Section 291 of the Criminal Code is not a proper instrument, precisely because the wording of today's criminal law is comprehensive, and is in line with the requirement of international conventions on the prohibition of sexual intercourse without consent. Of course, it must be banned, and it is. The proposal we are examining now is about to change the wording of the provision, without changing the content of the current law. But we're concerned that it can get unfortunate and unforeseen results, and besides, it's basically hard to go in to change the penal code for purely symbolic reasons when there's no problem with the regulation itself. You should be very careful about that. The penal code must be based on clarity and predictable. That is why the Central Party will not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e3217	In this case, therefore, we should not adopt a consent law, nor is it proposed, because we have a consent law in Norway. Nevertheless, the government parties in this room, with the support of the Center Party, will vote against what they are in favour of at the same time. They are in favour of measures to limit rape, they are in order to create a society to secure the victims of rape, they have been in favour of – and voted for – Norway joining the Istanbul Convention, which describes in detail a requirement for consent in the case of sexual acts. It was presented by a Minister of Justice from the Progress Party. Everyone in this room is in favour of a consent clause. Then it is strange that they continue to argue against a consent law, as the representative Angell Gimse did instead, by presenting all sorts of problems that a consent clause in the law would bring. We already have it, and the Right has voted for it, the Progress Party has voted for it, but in the debate on the matter they continue to argue against it. In the notes, it says, among other things. that a provision of consent is ‘anxious to the fact that the proposal will give the provision of rape too much, so that the limits of what is actually to be regarded as a rape are moved and that we are given unintended judgements’. Here they argue against a clause of consent that they voted for six months ago. If they really believe what the comment says, they should have voted no to the Istanbul Convention last May, as I understand it, but they did not. So you can ask yourself if the government parties have changed their vision. Are they no longer in favour of a consent clause? Do they consider that the requirements of the Istanbul Convention are no longer important? They're arguing against this. Fortunately, in a letter to Stortinget, the Council of State has made it clear that we have an agreement provision in Norway and that it is strong. It is precisely this confusion, both among justice politicians and in the public change of words, that we want to live to see. We have a clause of consent through our connection to the Convention, but the representatives of the government parties argue as if it does not exist. They send relatively confusing signals to the courts. I have also discussed this with judges. Although the consent requirement is laid down in a text of the Convention, the consent wording is not necessarily used as the applicable law, or as the legal source, it is used arbitrarily. Therefore, there is a need to clarify this. The SV's proposal, supported by the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party, is only about clarifying something that the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Centre are followers of – and have previously adopted. The requirement of consent is set out in the text of the Convention, but not in the legal paragraph, § 291. We want to strengthen the wording of Section 291. We take the wording from the text of the Convention into the legal text, that's what we want. We're not going to change the current law, and we're not going to affect the limits of what's to be considered rape, but we're going to make it clear, because that's what's needed. Today – two hours ago – I received an e-mail with a message from the UN Human Rights Committee. It emphasises exactly what I have said: the UN explicitly recommends that Section 291 be strengthened with a specific consent provision, just as this proposal states. The public debate, and not least the lack of understanding by the government parties that they have actually adopted a requirement for consent, and the reluctance to clarify the law of rape as it is today, create many misunderstandings outside the people, including in the courts. I think it's strange, and I don't quite understand why the government parties are opponents of clarifying what they're actually for. I don't know why they're opponents of making things visible and making them clear. I think it's nice, and I think it's confusing, but I know they're sending a very bad signal. Whatever we may have to think here of legal point-findings, this will be perceived outwardly so that, with the support of the Central Party, the government parties do not take seriously the issue of rape, that they are leaning back and see no reason to strengthen the law in this area – and even have no suggestions on how we can overcome the problem of rape. It's very disappointing for the thousands of women and men who have been exposed to this, and for the many who are under threat of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e3240	Sex must be voluntary. If it's not voluntary, it's illegal. Prime Minister Stefan Löfven in Sweden said that when he presented the bill there. In the preparatory work before the new criminal law in Norway, it was an argument against consent that no other Nordic countries had it, but now it is no longer the case. Sweden has gone ahead. The UN Commission on Women criticises Norway for not having a requirement for consent, and the Council of Europe recommends that we have it. In addition to the UN, the women’s movement in Norway has required this for a long time. That was a clear requirement in many cities on March 8th this year. It is incomprehensible and worrying that the government will not support the proposal, not least when we know that one in 10 women in Norway have been raped. Half of them were raped before the age of 18. A third has never told anyone about the rape. Behind these figures are thousands of women and young girls who deserve and demand better legal protection than they have today. Nine out of ten raped don't report the crime. Eight out of ten rapes still reported are ordered by the police. In short, most rapes are never reported. That so few things are reported, and even fewer ends with them, is scary, and we can't have it like that. The study carried out by the National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress states: ‘Sexual assaults against women were carried out almost exclusively by men. Also assaults against men were largely carried out by men. The most well-known attacker.’ The conclusion reads: ‘Serious physical violence and gross sexual assault affect a significant proportion of the population in Norway, starting too many in early childhood.’ These figures and the conclusion show the serious situation we're in. With it as a backstop, and not least with all the stories behind the metoo campaign, it's obvious that society unfortunately continues to reproduce gender roles and gender inequality. Real equality requires freedom from violence, rape and sexual harassment. International law requires that the limit of what is considered to be a rape is whether there is consent or not. We see the same thing in the Council of Europe Convention on Violence against Women. It also contains a clear obligation to ensure that rape is criminalised as sexual intercourse without voluntary consent. In its 2012 report, Kripos points out that especially party-related rapes fall outside the current legal definition of rape of the criminal law. Red supports the proposal that existing criminal law should be amended in such a way that the law defines that all sexual contact should be voluntary and will therefore be in line with the Committee's recommendation. Consent requirements are in line with international law, in line with the UN Commission on Women’s Rights and with the demands of the women’s movement. In red, a secondary vote will be in favour of the minority's proposal for clarification in the penal code, so that the wording better reflects the prohibition of sexual intercourse without consent. We are voting in favour of this proposal because it is an improvement, but the current law has to be amended, all the time when legal certainty is not good enough for all victims of rape. A change in the criminal law will also be able to prevent and facilitate the dissemination of knowledge about the ban. It can also have other positive ring-effects, e.g. several complainants who are currently uncertain about whether they are defined as having been raped. This is the message we want to give to young people and everyone else by supporting the SV's proposal, namely that only yes means yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e3269	Violence is a serious social sin that we must combat, but like the members of the Committee from the Right and the Advance Party, I believe that the proposal of the Justice Committee minority is wrong medicine. I believe that consent is absolutely central when the legislator has to assess which acts should be punishable as rape. The purpose of the provisions of criminal law on rape is to prohibit sexual intercourse without consent. Consent, however, is not a precisely defined concept. That means it has to be filled with content. You can't derive from the concept of consent what means are acceptable, and who aren't, to achieve sexual intercourse. There is, of course, a lot that everyone will agree on, for example. that consent obtained through the use of violence cannot be accepted. But as soon as you move away from violence, coercion, threats and exploitation of someone who is unconscious or asleep, it will be far more demanding to pull up the limit. The perception of where the limit goes will be shared, even among people who share many of the same value bases. I believe that in a state governed by law, it is a task for the legislator to clearly indicate the limits on which acts can be punished as a rape. In practice, if the legislator chooses a definition of rape indicating a lack of consent as the only condition, the task of drawing that limit is left to the courts. Such a design of criminal law is worrying, because it increases the risk that the law will not be the same for everyone. I believe it is important that we have an ongoing discussion on how best to prevent and combat rape and other serious sexual abuse. In such a discussion, of course, we must also be able to discuss whether the definition of rape is striking. The minority proposal does not seek to change the current law, but to clarify Section 291 of the Criminal Code on Rape, so that the wording better reflects the prohibition of sexual intercourse without consent, or involuntary sexual intercourse. I see the proposal that the minority does not want to extend the definition of rape. I do not think that is an urgent need either. The question of whether non-consent should be placed as a condition of the law on rape has been examined and sent to the hearing several times, at the latest in a 2013 consultation note. It is worth noting that the feedback during the hearings of key actors such as the National Attorney and the Law Association was that they did not see any pressing practical need to change the law on rape. As I see it, no one has been able to describe cases of involuntary sexual intercourse that are not covered by the current provision, but that should. Nor am I convinced that such clarification as is intended by the minority is the right medicine to report, investigate and prosecute several attacks. I also find it difficult to understand how such a change could remove any uncertainty about how the law is interpreted today, and thus contribute to ensuring the principle of legality in criminal law, as the SV representative stated. On the contrary, I believe that there is a certain danger that a change in the direction that the minority's proposals point out could lead to the borders of criminal liability flowing out and becoming less clear, not more obvious. I will not exclude that such a legal change as the minority requests is feasible. But changing the wording will always lead to a certain risk that the content of the penal code will also be altered by future interpretations of the law, even if it was not the intention of the Stortinge. The problem in rape cases is, as I see it, not the design of the criminal ban on rape, but that it is difficult to give good enough evidence to the court about what really happened. Therefore, when we look at measures to combat rape, it is primarily different from the regulatory approach that should be at the centre. In particular, actions that can help improve the quality of research into these types of issues are important. It is also about important prevention measures, not least in relation to attitudes and respect for borders between themselves and others. At the same time, insulted police and auxiliaries shall meet and be sure that the notification was correct. Such measures will be covered by the government's forthcoming action plan against rape.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e3291	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e3296	I have a short question. I'm wondering why the government said it was right to ratify the Istanbul Convention, like, among other things. prohibit sexual intercourse without consent?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e3301	The provisions of the International Conventions on the acts which States are obliged to criminalise — in general, and all the others — do not imply an obligation to design internal criminal law in one specific way. The central thing is that all cases of involuntary sexual intercourse are affected. Then Norway, and other countries, can choose different ways of designing the delineation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e3306	I thank you for your answer. At the end of its article, the Council of State refers to the action plan against electoral articles to be presented by the government. When we deal with this matter in Stortinget – and I do not expect the Council of State to have all that history with it – the Labour Party makes a proposal for a mandatory action plan against electoral articles. It was put to the right. The decision was an action plan against electoral articles. Would the Council of State be in breach of what extent that action plan should be binding or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e3313	All the action plans that we are making, we want to achieve as a goal. But there is a difference between an action plan and a legislative text or a budget decision. The action plan we are working on will be completed during 2018. Then I am ready to take a discussion about how committed it is – or is not. However, it is clear that there are also concrete measures to improve prevention, the quality of research and to ensure the professional follow-up of the offended.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e3318	Some of the important things we have in one way established in the debate today are that the Committee — and also the Council of State — agrees that, by ratifying the Istanbul Convention, it is forbidden in Norway to have sex with anyone without consent. The letter of reply from the previous Council of State to the Committee underlines this very clearly. Then the question is, what are the consequences of the Council of State being afraid, when we just want a clarification of what we're all a few about.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e3323	I fully agree that we agree on what should be prohibited, and that you need a consent, let it be quite clear. Our concern is not that with this proposal we should be less opposed to rape, the concern is that we can get a proposal where the limits of criminal law flow, and thus become less clear, and not more obvious. And we want legislation that needs to be clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e3328	This matter is very complicated, and now it seems that we are losing the vote on the clarification of the wording of Section 291 of the Convention text. So we have two texts. We have Section 291, where consent is not described, and we have a reference to an international convention, which is also a legal source, where consent is explicitly described. My question to the Council of State is: how will he ensure that Norwegian courts comply with the International Convention, where consent is explicitly clarified? How will he ensure that the courts take this into account?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e3335	We believe that today's legislation respects that convention. There is no major difference in principle between the lack of consent as the only condition contained in the proposal and the definition of the circumstances which exclude consent and which are more in line with the present. The important thing to achieve results in the area of rape is what we will come back to in the action plan, which deals with investigations, better prevention and dealing with those who are victims, so that they feel secure in order to do what is necessary to report.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e3340	No one disagrees with the other measures to combat rape, and it is very good that the Council of State mentions it. But now we're talking about clarifying the law, and we're facing two rules. We have a provision in Section 291, where consent is not described, and then we have an international convention to which we have committed ourselves, where consent is described. My question is again: how will the Council of State ensure that Norwegian courts use the Istanbul Convention as a legal source in various rape cases?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e3345	Norwegian legislation underlies this. It is not a fundamental resistance to assessing whether the legal text is correct, but in the rounds we have had, it has been stated that today's law is good enough. It's the other things that are a challenge, and we should spend time on. The problem with the proposal that exists here is that we can get something that becomes less clear and not more clear, which I hope should be the intention.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e3351	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e3358	Let me clarify a couple of things. Norway has made a number of changes to the legislation in this area over the last 15 years. We are among the few countries that, among other things, have criminalised negligent rape. We also have a paragraph covering sexual acts without consent, Section 297. It also includes sexual intercourse without consent, cf. case-law. It is not defined as a rape, but as sexual act without consent. This paragraph should probably be used more often by the police. So to Petter Eide, the Ministry of Justice and Defence has examined whether current legislation is in line with international conventions, including the so-called Istanbul Convention, and that is it. Finally, I also want to comment on the article for the Bears Moxnes. The image is not as black as it is produced as. There is an increase in the number of reports of rape cases. Police are getting better and more and more competent in both the acquisition of technical evidence and tactical investigation through interrogation. Follow-up to rape victims also improves. Solvency Horne instead mentioned the innovation The Aid Centre for Injured Persons in Criminal Matters. It will now be established and will be established throughout the whole of Norway Police Department. The system's good. Of course, it can always be improved, but it's dangerous to communicate that the system doesn't work. A scare image of the system will mean that women do not dare go to the police and report these matters. I'm warning you against that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e3369	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox Case No. 12–16 is the second reading of legal cases, and the President will propose that cases be dealt with together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e3434	That Red voted against Acer, probably a lot of people have come along. I want to use the opportunity now to say that the matter we are currently going to deal with at a second time, increasingly seems to be taking place on unclear or erroneous premises. Following the ACER decision last week, the Workers' Party has stated that there will be no new privately owned power cables, but in the comments of the majority parties, the Workers' Party, the government parties and the Greens' Greens' Greens' Party. 5 L for 2017-2018 we could read that the NorthConnect foreign table is to be completed before the Energy Act is amended so that only Statnet can own and operate foreign connections. This is the one contradiction. The other contradiction is whether or not we should wait until we can gain experience with the two foreign tables that are now being built in the Netherlands and England before NorthConnect is being dealt with. Last Tuesday of this week, Labour Party representative Else-May Botten wrote: «But there will be no new Statnet cable until in many, many years, if any. It is only when the impact of existing and adopted cables has been carefully evaluated and has demonstrated socio-economic profitability that this will be relevant.» She also wrote: "Does the Acer case seem different when it's a little distant, than it does to many right now? I don't ignore it." It might be that the bottom is right. But in that case, I think it will also apply to many of the Labour Party's own representatives on the Stortinget, rapporteurs and Members, because the Prime Minister and the Minister of Oil and Energy have so far said in the debate that the NorthConnect concession treatment will continue, almost as if nothing has happened. At the latest in today's class struggle, it says that NorthConnect has open arms, ready to take Statnet on the owner's side. Nothing indicates that NorthConnect has been informed that they must wait for years before receiving a response to their concession request, as it is produced – after the first decision – by the Workers’ Party in the public domain. I'm worried on behalf of the People's Government when there's so much contradiction in a case that has aroused so much popular commitment, and I'm worried about where it really becomes of the guarantees the trade movement has called for, and what it's going to be subject to ACER will be said for Norway's power-generating industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e3455	The centre party is very much in agreement with the representative of Moxnes in this matter. We will stress when we are today discussing changes to the Energy Act and the Natural Gas Act, that our resistance to those changes is still constant, and we believe that the debate that has followed in the wake of the 22nd March decision in the Stortinget, underpins that the Storting should take better time during the consideration of the matter. It should have been dealt with under the Basic Law § 115, by a majority of three-quarters in the case of a waiver of sovereignty, and one should expect and see which way Iceland is going. What we're now at risk is that this case comes up again in Stortingen, and I don't know how lucky it really is. The centre party will stress that our opposition to the changes in these two legislative proposals remains firm. We will give our consent here today, but the argumentation and resistance stand firm – as it did on 22 March.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e3462	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 12–16.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e3474	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e3483	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No 1, from Nicholas Wilkinson on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from the Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red There is a vote on proposal No. Two, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Grand Duchy asks the Presidency to return to the Grand Duchy with proposals for the establishment of remuneration for the Director of the Grand Duchy.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e3509	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Presidency of the Grand Duchy shall be authorised to conclude a salary agreement, which shall not exceed the President’s remuneration, and shall lay down detailed conditions of employment.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e3546	The Greens and Reds have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e3562	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Greens the proposals No 3-6, by Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Greens There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3–6, from the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to make appropriate proposals to extend the scope of the Marka Act so that important natural areas in several municipalities, including Follomarka, Nesoddmarka and Mossemarka, can have a legal boundary.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that Finnemarka, Drammen’s Sørmark and Røjsjömarka be given legal protection under any kind of near-nature law or under their own law in accordance with the model of the Marka Act, which currently provides protection to the Marka areas around Oslo.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that Vågsbygdskowen, Baneheia and important natural areas in Odder Island be given legal protection under any natural law, or under its own law in accordance with the model of the Marka Act, which currently provides protection to the land areas around Oslo.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the Bodømarka to be given legal protection under any near-nature law or according to the model of the law on the land, which currently provides protection to the land areas around Oslo.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e3606	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an investigation into the urban areas and the surrounding nature of Norway’s largest cities to be protected at national level under any near-nature law or according to the model of the land law, which currently provides protection to the land areas around Oslo.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and propose a law of proximity on a large and small scale that provides permanent protection for areas that are important for outdoors and natural experiences near where people live.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e3630	I voted wrong!
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e3635	It'll be corrected. The correct number of votes is 57 votes against and 33 votes in favour. Proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party, were thus not accepted. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e3647	The Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e3663	During the debate, Per Espen Stoknes put forward a total of six proposals on behalf of the Socialist Left and the Greens. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is requesting a national ban on the use of triclosan and all types of perfluorised substances in consumer products sold in Norway as soon as possible.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to review all the toxins on the Environment DG’s list of priority pollutants and to assess whether it is possible to introduce national bans pending stricter international regulation.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The government is asking the government to step up its efforts to control the levels of environmental toxins in consumer products imported into Norway.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate how a national excise duty on products containing PFAS can be designed to reduce the presence of PFAS in the products and to present a case to the Stortinget.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to impose on public purchasers non-toxic purchases in order to avoid substances on the Environment DG’s priority list.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to step up the research effort on the effects of environmental toxins, air pollution and similar to public health and to ensure that the work of the Public Health Institute in these areas is allocated increased resources over the coming years.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e3715	The Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e3731	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Åsmund Aukrust on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment proposal No 2, by Arne Nävra on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment proposal No 3, from Per Espen Stoknes on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA proposal No 4, from Åsmund Aukrust on behalf of the Energy and Environment Committee There is a vote on proposal No. 3 by the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a ‘Oslofjordlaw’ model from the Land Act to ensure public access to the coastal zone and the sea and to promote and facilitate outdoor, nature and sport activities in and around the Oslofjord.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e3761	Sorry, I voted wrong!
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e3766	And then we're going to fix it. Turid Kristensen's vote has now been recorded on the right side, so that the correct number of votes will then be 89 votes in favour and 1 vote against the proposal of the Green Party. There is a vote on proposal No. 2, by the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for tightening up the Law on Planning and Building to ensure that the building ban in the coastal zone is enforced in order to ensure access to the coastal zone for future generations.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e3785	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals for a management plan for Oslofjord including proposals for new areas of protection.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e3802	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Committee on Energy and the Environment. The proposal is promoted by a Joint Committee and replaces its recommendation. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to present a comprehensive plan to the Oslofjorden – with the aim of achieving a good environmental status, restoring important natural values, promoting an active outdoor life and preserving biodiversity in the fjord.’ Red has also announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e3820	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Sandra Borch on behalf of the Center Party the proposals No 2 and 3, by Arne Nävra on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment There is a vote on proposal No. 2, by the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for increased stocking targets for the four large predators in Norway in order to ensure the viability of all predators belonging in Norwegian nature.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e3844	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, by the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the government to remove the access to your cabin.» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e3861	There is a vote on proposal No. One from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘1. The size calls on the government to clarify the two-part objective of the forest game management, so that it becomes clear that these are two equal objectives in line with the previous Storting decision. 2nd@item: inlistbox The majority asks the government to submit proposals for reduced stocking targets for the large wild game species. In this context, the government is requested to disregard the practice of setting stock targets at intervals and to assume that existing grazing is maintained. 3rd@item: inlistbox The government is asking for a change in the game regulations so that the predators are given real responsibility for the management throughout the year. It must be made possible for the names to be used in the event of contingent damage throughout the year. They also need to be given greater control over the exceptional outflows that occur under the control of the State's natural supervision. 4th@item: inlistbox The government is asked to take the initiative of the predators in priority pastures to carry out the planned extraction of potential pests before grazing. The planned surveillance of predatory game is carried out in the relevant areas in order to implement it. The aim is for such extraction to be carried out on track snow. 5th@item: inlistbox The Government is asking the Government to introduce standing permission for the killing of wolves entering pasture-priority areas and in areas of Sami domestic drainage. 6th@item: inlistbox The government is asking for changes to the Roofing Game Regulation so that in situations where there is evidence of greater damage over several years in the same area, it provides a general opening throughout the country in order to allow the bedding of the royal eagle prior to damage and without the existence of an acute damage situation, as long as there is a risk of greater damage. Such permits shall be linked to a specific area and time without requirements for the identification of the harmful individual. 7th@item: inlistbox The government is asked to take the initiative to amend the rules on the indemnification of large wild game, so that the felling laws can apply the same methods used by the State's natureguard. Eight. The majority requests the Government to submit proposals for standing breeding permits during the grazing season of predators in predatory pastures and on inland pastures.»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e3905	The central party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e3921	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Nicholas Wilkinson, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, proposal No 3, from Sveinung Stenland on behalf of Right, Advance Party and Left proposal No 4, from Oluk V. Bollestad on behalf of the Christian People's Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the amendment of Section 3 of the regulation on genetic screening of newborns, so that it is possible to store the samples for 16 years, as the Newborn screening itself states.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a separate case to be brought back with regard to the extension of the purpose of the neonatal screening to research, and any storage of the samples for more than 16 years. The ethical and practical consequences of such a change shall be elucidated.’;» Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e3957	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that parents who have consented to the storage of blood samples prior to the entry into force of the Act actively consent to the permanent storage of biological material obtained in the genetic screening of newborns for serious hereditary diseases.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e3974	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked, by the end of this ageing period, to exercise administrative and information responsibilities relating to the registry of the neonatal screening and which adequately respects the privacy, the system and the right to reservation after the age of 16.’;» The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have now announced support for the proposal, and the President has reason to believe that this is a unanimous vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e4034	The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e4046	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e4060	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e4069	During the debate Kjersti Toppe has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government is asked to investigate and propose a system to ensure that professional judgement and priority decisions in the field of medicinal products may be subject to substantive testing and quality assurance.» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e4186	The second sentence of the fifth paragraph of Section 6 shall be deleted. The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e4200	The rest of I and II are voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e4210	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e4220	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e4229	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party the proposals No 2–6, from Kjersti Tops on behalf of the Party of Centres and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2–6, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to consider setting up a permanent scheme of reference groups with clinical experience expertise to assist decision-making forums in the evaluation of new methods.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to raise a case for the Storting to ensure transparency in the prices of medicinal products in Norway.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: "The government is asking for increased Nordic cooperation for the purchase of medicinal products and for the transparency of medicinal product prices also internationally." Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that regional health establishments practise full transparency of medicinal product prices and to end the practice of secrecy of tendering prices for medicinal products.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to re-establish a National Council for Health Priority in order to contribute to a transparent exchange of words and advice on health care priorities.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e4278	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the system to review the Decision Forum on New Approaches as a whole and to propose changes to the mandate and organisation which can contribute to greater transparency and democratic anchoring, and to explore alternative models of the decision-making system, where a decision-making unit can be established in its own undertaking or as part of the administration.’;» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e4302	The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e4348	It shall be added to III, IV and V. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e4362	It is voted on over I and II.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e4377	During the debate, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad put forward a proposal on behalf of the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government not to implement closures of settlements or settlements in the West until the consequences of the possible continuation of operations, including the Osterøy division of Bergen in prison, have been presented to the Stortinget. In order to ensure a broad analysis of the impact, the Osterøy Division of Bergen is included in the ongoing KVU of the West Region of Criminal Welfare.’ All parties have indicated their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e4387	The party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e4392	So this is about the proposal on Osterøy and Bergen prison?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e4397	Yes. That's a very good suggestion.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e4402	The left has also announced that we should vote against it. I think the other government parties do too.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e4407	Is there anyone who can confirm that?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e4412	The parties to the government shall vote against the proposal of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e4417	Then we vote on the proposal of the Christian People's Party. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have now announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e4438	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e4454	During the debate, Mr Vågslid has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the government to propose a change that makes it clear § 291 of the Penal Code so that the wording better reflects the prohibition of sexual intercourse without consent. [[involuntary sexual intercourse]] The proposal shall not change the content of the applicable law.’;» The Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e4478	The Socialist Left and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e4494	Case No. 12–16 are the second time legal proceedings and concern legislative acts 41 to 45. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-04-05.ana.ud259e4663	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
