ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-08.ana.ud143e25	The President will first give the Stortinget the sad message that our good colleague Ivar Odnes died on Friday, October 5. The President will return to the memorial, but the President will ask the Chamber to rise for a short while in reverence for Ivar Odnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-08.ana.ud143e36	There's been a report of condolence in the 7th of June. The former alternate of the State of Oppland, Bengt Fasteraune, has taken the seat of representative. The representatives of Åsmund Aukrust, Toril Eidsheim and Trond Giske, who have been licensed, have once again taken their seats. The called alternates, for Buskerud County Anne Sandum and for Rogaland County Tom Kalsås, now take the seat. From the Central Party Group of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, notice is given of the withdrawal of the licence granted to the representative Emilie Enger Mehl from 9 October to 11 October. – The notification shall be notified.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-08.ana.ud143e78	Propositions will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-08.ana.ud143e94	Today, exactly four years have passed since the government presented its first overall government budget. In the financial language that day I said this: ‘Although Norway is going well, there are some clouds in the horizon.’ That day was the price of a barrel of oil 92.5 dollars. We were expecting the oil price to be about $100 above that. Now it's pierced downwards. The clouds in the horizon were about lower demand from the oil sector creating a setback and a greater need for conversion of the Norwegian economy. We saw the clouds coming, but we didn't see how dark they were going to be, and how soon they came. We didn't see the oil price falling all the way down to less than $30. But we managed it anyway. Today the sun shines again – all over the country. That's good growth in the economy. The companies look forward to the future. They employ more people and invest more. Climate emissions are decreasing. More people are at work. More people go to kindergarten. More finish the school. The oil price is over $80, and it seems that the petroleum industry will make money even if the oil price is much lower than that. So we didn't just get through the oil price drop, we got strengthened out of it. But there are still some clouds in the horizon. They just looked a little different than they did four years ago. In the Jeløya platform, we describe the major challenges Norway faces. In the state budget for 2019, we give priority to actions that enable us to meet these challenges. We strengthen competitiveness and facilitate the transition to greener, smarter and more innovative businesses. We give businesses and individuals incentives to make choices that are better for the environment and that help Norway to take its share of the responsibility for solving the climate challenge. We adapt to tomorrow's work life by focusing heavily on research and innovation. We connect the country with better roads, public transport and rail. We give priority to early work, better teachers and professionals. At the same time, we are proposing new initiatives to provide adults with skills through life. We are strengthening the fight against crime, improving preparedness and increasing the defence capacity of Norway. We invest in hospitals, faster treatment and better care for the elderly. We improve the welfare of municipalities and strengthen the social security network by giving priority to care, mental health and combating poverty. We give families and businesses greater economic freedom by reducing taxes and taxes. Then it becomes more attractive to create jobs and more profitable to work. This is how we create a sustainable welfare society and a stronger and safer Norway. The basis for our well-being is an economy that is growing. Now the growth of the Norwegian economy is solid. It is already stronger than the historical trend. Most people will have increased purchasing power. More people come to work. Then demand for goods and services increases. Norwegian businesses have become more competitive and also benefit from the fact that the arrows are pointing up elsewhere in the world. At the top of this, petroleum investments, which seem to increase again – for the first time in four years. However, in such a situation, it is important to recall that the balance between rise and decrease may be hairy. If we do not have the ability to conduct a good and responsible economic policy, we risk losing momentum and, in the worst case, stopping completely. In the 2019 government budget, the government proposes to increase the use of oil revenues by 4.5 billion. kr from this year. There is an increase in line with the growth of the mainland economy, and therefore the impact on economic activity is neutral. And the use of oil revenue is as it should be when the growth of the economy is solid and self-sustaining. Over-exploitation in public budgets can lead to a tightening of monetary policy at a faster pace than is expected and to an increase in the risk of the krona increasing rapidly. It would have just as abruptly destroyed what many businesses and employees have been struggling and sacrificing for years now to achieve, namely improving competitiveness. For Norwegian jobs, it is essential that the improvement we have had in competitiveness be preserved. At the same time, a good budget is about spending the money correctly. We need to be able to give priority. The choices we make today will shape our future. We need to give priority to what enables us to meet the challenges and seize the opportunities that lie ahead of us. One important reason why we are doing so well in Norway is that we have been able to adapt over time. We have a resilient business, and we are already one of the most digitized societies in the world. But it must not be a rest cushion. Then we'll slow down quickly. High productivity and competitiveness are essential for continued growth and well-being in Norway. Our companies are competing in a world market where national borders have less and less to say for the price of a product. It must not be a competitive disadvantage to be located in Norway. Norway has the highest rate in the Nordic region of corporate tax, despite the fact that we have reduced it year after year. In the 2019 budget, we propose to cut it by one more percentage point, from 23 to 22 pst. In addition, we will reduce the wealth tax, by increasing the valuation discount on shares and operating resources from 20 to 25 p.p. and the bottom subtraction to 1,5 million. kr. It must pay off to invest Norwegian capital in Norwegian jobs, and we must ensure that the profits are taxed here. The government proposes changes to the rules against anti-competitive tax planning and to ensure that multinational companies pay more accurate taxes in Norway. The chocolate and sugar confectionery fees have limitations that may appear random. It may be difficult to understand why there is a charge on a marzipan rice, but not on a marzipan roll. When the levy was increased as part of the budget agreement last year, this problem was reinforced. The higher the fee, the more important it will be if the product is a marzipan rice or is a marzipan roll. We propose to reverse the fee increase to the level in 2017. In addition, we will set down a sample to look at both the chocolate and sugar products charge and the non-alcoholic drink charge. Business will be invited to participate. The selection shall consider the limitations of the chocolate and sugar confectionery levy and whether it is possible to make these charges more effective in health and nutrition policy. I'm a technology optimist, and I have faith in knowledge, in innovation, and in research as a link between the technology and the values we're going to live on. Technological development must go hand in hand with a more skilled workforce so that employees and businesses can take on technological innovations. This allows Norwegian companies to compete with other countries, even though we have a high wage level. But it requires competence. Today, the government is also presenting a revised long-term plan for research and higher education. We're launching three new escalating plans for a total of 1.5 billion. kr for the period 2019-2022: to technology to research and development for the renewal and conversion of business to the quality of higher education Digitalisation and automation are happening at an enormous pace, both with us and in the countries around us. We don't know exactly how big the changes will be, and what challenges they bring. But we know that they will create many opportunities – new opportunities – and that the winners will be the ones who are able to seize the opportunities. We'll take care of that. With the priorities of the next year’s State budget, we will facilitate companies and employees, municipalities and residents in Norway to benefit from the progress and innovation ahead of us. We propose a historic commitment to digitalisation in the public sector. Back we get everything from new tools that make everyday life easier for patients and school students, to better border control and a stronger defense against cyberterrors. Research-based development must also be prioritised in order to succeed in the green transition. In the 2019 government budget, we propose more than 9.7 billion. kr for industrial research and innovation. We are also proposing a significant increase to Enova. It is an important tool for developing and implementing energy and climate-friendly technologies. When researchers and trade union workers complement each other, conversion becomes easier. When industry replaces the old polluting machine with modern and environmentally friendly technology, it can become even more profitable and even more competitive. Therefore, providing our companies with good framework conditions is not only good business policy, it is also good climate policy. The government has an offensive climate policy, and it works. The emissions of greenhouse gases are now decreasing. They have not been lower since 1995. 1995! The 2019 budget also has a clear green profile. Climate change is primarily a global challenge, requiring global solutions. At the same time, we have the ambition to take a lot of the commitment nationally. Norway’s 2030 climate obligation is to reduce emissions by at least 40 pst. in comparison with 1990. We are in dialogue with the EU on a joint agreement on the achievement of the emission target. Good climate policy is based on market-based and cost-effective measures. The CO 2 tax and transport measures are particularly important to reduce non-quota emissions. The government's conversion of car charges in an environmentally friendly way contributes to more people choosing cars with low or no emissions. We have shown that it is possible to implement measures that are both good for the environment and give people the most a simpler everyday life and greater freedom. We want to strengthen this environmental profile. We continue the conversion of the one-off motorbike fee so that it becomes more profitable to buy low-emission motorcycles. We strengthen the incentives to buy environmentally friendly low-emission taxis. We provide the air passenger fee with an environmental profile by introducing differentiation by distance. At that time, there will be a slightly lower charge in Norway and Europe. Long-distance journeys – journeys outside Europe – receive a higher rate. We also reduce the electricity charge by one penny per kilowatt hour. Lower electricity charges are a hand bill for families and businesses at a time of high power prices. Nearly all the current we use in Norway is renewable. Lower electricity charges therefore also mean lower charges on climate-friendly energy use. We are continuing the strong commitment to rail and public transport. The government is also following up on the development of cost-effective technologies for CO 2 management. Over several years, the government has given priority to increasing the funds for measures that can help reduce harmful emissions and limit human influence on nature and the environment. In the 2019 budget, we are continuing this effort. We're going to do more research on how we can use renewable energy resources in a sustainable way. We will look at the climate contribution from forests, and at international level Norway is making significant efforts, among other things. through climate and forest action. We need to invest more in renewable energy in developing countries, and we need to intensify the fight against marine pollution. The proliferation of plastics threatens life in the sea and access to food and clean water. It is essential to limit litter and clean up where possible. We therefore propose more money to the Centers for Oil Protection and Marine Environment in Lofoten and the West Bank. Also internationally, the government is making an important effort for cleaner seas. We're proposing a historic bet and we're going to set off 400 million. D to work towards maritime siphoning of the aid budget. Norway does not win the fight against environmental challenges alone, but it is our responsibility to contribute to what we can and are good at. As a small country in a cohesive world, we are also exposed to other developments that we cannot control ourselves. In my lifetime, we have never experienced stronger counterweights to globalisation than what we are now witnessing. The conclusion of free trade is diminishing, and there is reason to be concern. The world, as we know it, is based on land dealing with each other. Trade is a powerful engine for growth and prosperity, and few countries have benefited more from this engine than Norway. The best thing we can do is keep working for free trade. If we meet protectionism with increased protectionism, we fail. At the same time, we must recognise that the challenges that increased protectionism claims to answer are most real. In several countries, economic growth has been broken down — in the United States, for example, where the income of the steady American has remained at a standstill in the last decades. This is not the case in Norway. With us, most of us have had a share in the growth of wealth. The figures are clear: in an international comparison, the differences in Norway are small — economic, social and geographical. But we know that not everyone knows each other in that story. Some also live in poverty in Norway, and some feel that they are not able to participate. Those who fall outside must be able to find a hand that pulls them back and gives them a new chance. The children born in a low - income family must be lifted. They're not supposed to inherit the problems. They're going to have opportunities. Over the last few years' budgets, together with the Christian People's Party, we have strengthened the national anti-poverty grant scheme to a historically high level. We've made kindergarten cheaper for families with bad advice. We have introduced a national system of free core time in kindergarten for children in low-income families. We've made sure that students from families with weak economies get more in school scholarships. And I could still. The list of measures to capture families struggling with poverty early and providing them with the necessary help is long. Child poverty must be combated in several areas. We continue to strengthen national support schemes against child poverty in 2019, including: for holidays so that families with a weak economy can also have a break in their daily lives. In order to help families with children and other large households with low incomes and high housing costs, housing aid is increased. It is important for more children to be able to live safely and well. We propose to strengthen the area operation in Oslo, Drammen, Bergen, Trondheim and Stavanger. The territorial activities shall contribute to the economic autonomy of more people and to the active participation in the community and in the wider community. Inclusion and better living conditions in vulnerable urban areas are a prerequisite for combating poverty in both the short and long term. The most important thing is that parents are at work and can support their family. If we are to succeed in lifting families of children out of poverty, we must invest in education and qualification. That is why we propose, inter alia: to increase the contribution to follow-up and piloting functions aimed at young people at risk of falling out of the educational cycle. Completion of primary and secondary education is essential for a good foothold in the labour market. We also propose to extend the system of free core time in kindergarten to two-year-olds. It is not least an important integration measure. Getting mothers with immigrant backgrounds into work is one of the most important things we can do to reduce poverty. The biggest differences are between those who are at work and those who are not. It is also gratifying that the employment rate is finally rising — after falling for many years. But still there are too many outside. Now we have to use the good times to include more in the labour market. In the long term, the individual’s ability to participate in the labour market is fundamental to both equality and living standards. Education, qualification, safe jobs and a well-organised and modern working life are the main measures to reduce social disparities. Then we get both a stronger community and more value creation. The government has launched several measures to improve the quality of school, to give students the best possible training early in school, and to prevent apostasy. We see that this gives us results. Never before have so many completed higher education, and high-ranking people get a place to learn. Good education is the most important thing we can give to children and young people. The foundation already laid from kindergarten and school is important for the rest of your life. In this budget, therefore, priority is given to measures that enable students to learn more and that more people to complete the school. We prioritise early efforts and more and better teachers. This allows more children and young people to get the help they need. The working life of tomorrow will need a diversity of competences. Professionals will be an important part of this diversity. By increasing the focus on professional deepening, we will provide students with better opportunities to get into practice in the company. We strengthen the continuing training of vocational teachers and the rates of research that develop the professional fields in the right direction. In addition, we extend the test of modular training for construction and health sciences. This will make it easier to combine training with work. This government wants a working life where no one goes out to date. We have given several adults the right to secondary education and improved access to flexible training that can be combined with work. We want to develop more flexible continuing training provision in digital literacy. Such offers shall be developed in cooperation between universities, universities or specialised schools and enterprises and businesses, and provide more opportunities to combine education with almost full-time jobs. At the same time, we will develop sectoral programmes of training and continuing training for low-skilled and skilled workers in sectors exposed to digitisation and conversion. Work is not only important for individuals but also contributes to the maintenance of a sustainable welfare society. This summer we launched the inclusion dungeon. The goal is to get the most out-of-work people into regular jobs. A joint effort by public and private actors is essential for success. State enterprises must take the lead in the work on diversity and inclusion. They shall actively search for qualified staff, including among groups with low professional participation. It is set to target at least 5 pst. new employees in the State shall be persons with disabilities or holes in the CV. The government is following up the inclusion burden in the budget. We would like, among other things: facilitate a simpler and more efficient use of wage subsidies and training measures. People who do not come to work on their own will be offered employment-oriented assistance. Nav shall provide good follow-up and assess the need for action towards the user, and employers with recruitment needs. In the 2019 budget, we are continuing the high effort towards young people and the long-term unemployed. In addition, more people with drug problems have to be provided an opportunity for action. We also propose to increase the allocation of permanent work. It is important for more people who need special organisation and close follow-up to be offered this. Immigrants are more out of work than others. Changing that picture will be a positive and important contribution both to the future opportunities and to the well-being of the person concerned, to the integration and sustainability of our welfare society. Immigration to Norway is now very low. The settlement of refugees has also gone quickly. This means that we can reduce the grant for the settlement of refugees and use part of it to increase the allocation of targeted integration measures. The capacity of the municipalities is now good. Then there's also room to receive more quota refugees than last year. We are proposing to increase the quota by about 800 to a maximum of 3000, in line with the Jeleia platform. At the same time, we need to be vigilant and tightened up in other areas to ensure sustainability. Overall migration to Norway must be adapted to society’s capacity for successful integration. It is a goal for the government to get as little as possible to Norway which does not have a real need for protection. Strict regulation, rapid return of non-residents without legal residence and those who no longer need protection is absolutely necessary to safeguard the Norwegian welfare society. Therefore, the return work continues in 2019. The government also proposes to strengthen its efforts to expose fraud and intensify its efforts against polycony, pro-forma and serialism from abroad. It is essential to detect and prevent persons staying in Norway based on incorrect information. The aim is to ensure a sustainable immigration policy, which enables us to help people with a real need for protection more effectively and to integrate those who will be in Norway. Significant efforts are now being made to integrate around the country. However, the challenges are great. Immigrants on average score lower on living conditions variables than others. On average, they have less formal competences and more people are out of work. Many experience negative social control. In some vulnerable urban areas, the challenges of poor integration are particularly high. The government will give priority to quota refugees with the highest chance of successful integration. And we're going to implement an integration promise. The introduction system is the main integration policy tool in Norway, but today the results are too poor. We need to make clearer demands for the municipalities, which are responsible for the training, and for each individual immigrant. We need to improve Norwegian training and education opportunities. Our goal of integration policy is for more immigrants to manage themselves and to be part of large and small communities in the Norwegian community. Fewer children will grow up in poverty. More children are to grow up in a home where Mom and Dad are working. It is absolutely crucial for both the individual and the sustainability of our welfare systems that we succeed better with integration. The most important step taken by the government in fiscal policy, I've mentioned everything. It is reducing company taxes, so that the Norwegian level of taxation does not go all the way with the countries around us and to prevent production and jobs from moving out of Norway. In this way, we also fence around the tax base. While we're lowering corporate taxes, we're reducing taxes on people. Then it becomes more attractive to work. Since 2013, a significant part of the tax relief has benefited most people. A normal family with two full-time incomes will pay about NOK 11000 less in taxes next year than it did in 2013. For almost nine out of ten personal taxpayers, the tax is lower or roughly unchanged with this budget. The proportion of persons receiving tax consolidation is highest in the highest income groups – mainly as a result of increased tax on dividends. Lower taxes are important for work and growth. When you get lower taxes on last earned heads, it becomes attractive to work a little bit more. It is important both for the welfare community and for the individual. Lower taxes are also about freedom. For tax havens is not giving more money to anyone, it's letting people keep more of their own money, so they can decide what they want to spend on themselves instead of deciding – or the municipalities. In the 2019 budget, the government proposes to tighten further the local authority's right to collect property taxes. Property tax is an unsocial tax that affects the ability to pay. We want to get as much lower property taxes as possible in the years that come. In this budget, we suggest that no municipality should be allowed to have more than 5 per million in taxes on dwellings and cabins. Those with a rate of 6 or 7 per million have to cut the tax rate. We also propose to introduce a ceiling on the valuation of the dwelling to ensure that the tax base and therefore the property tax are not too high. The property tax base shall not exceed 70 pst. of the estimated market value of the dwelling. We have strengthened the municipal economy year after year. The municipalities have had a strong income growth under this government and have a good economic foundation. It allows them to secure kindergartens, knowledge and mastery at school, to expand care for the elderly and to improve the quality of health services. The budget we are presenting today enables municipalities to continue to strengthen important welfare services while reducing property taxes. The local government sector receives a real growth in its free revenues of SEK 2.6 billion. kr in 2019. The government attaches particular importance to enabling municipalities to strengthen early school interventions, upgrade and renew the county road network and improve the provision of drug addicts. Our good welfare systems are an important reason why Norway is one of the world's best countries to live in. They help balance differences and make it possible for each of us to succeed, regardless of the background. In order to maintain such a social model, we need welfare mechanisms to stimulate work. At the same time, we need to ensure that those who, for various reasons, cannot work also have financial security. Through the government's draft budget, we strengthen welfare services so that more people can take part in the opportunities offered by the Norwegian society. People who have been sick for a long time are at risk of falling out of work. Waiting for treatment creates insecurity. That's why we're going to continue to reduce health cows. Hospitals are getting their operating budgets increased by 1.4 billion. kr, so that they can treat more patients and finance increased medical costs – and invest. We continue to facilitate investments in good and modern hospital buildings around the country. In the budget, the government proposes to provide new loans for the construction of a new hospital in Hammerfest and for a new hospital in Narvik. The government also proposes to extend the loan framework to a new hospital in Stavanger, so that university areas can be built from 2020 onwards. Psychiatric health and drug care are among the main areas of government activity. Creating a sustainable welfare society is not just about money. It's about providing treatment that's good enough for people to live a decent life – to be able to finish school, master everyday, have a job. We've done a lot to help people who are struggling with drugs and with mental health challenges. More people are treated more quickly, for example: because private and non-profit-making offers contribute to the variation and better organisation of the needs of the individual. The state budget significantly strengthens the supply of care and mental health. In the autumn and early next year, there will be six package courses in mental health and alcohol. Wrapping for cancer has produced good results. Patients and relatives are satisfied because it creates greater security and predictability. This has also led to faster investigation and treatment. Now we're going to give the same security and predictability to people with mental illness and drug addiction. We also need to prevent better. This government is facilitating the expansion of school health services and the provision of psychologists in municipalities. After eight years of decline in the efforts of municipalities, over the last two years we have seen a growth of over 1,500 years in municipal mental health and drug work. The escalation plan for the drug field is one of the reasons for the increase. That plan continues in 2019 to achieve the objective of better treatment, housing, health care, early intervention and enhanced aftercare for drug addicts. We have provided many hundreds of psychologists in the municipalities and have introduced demands for psychological competence in all municipalities from 2020. In the 2019 budget, we provide approximately 125 more psychologists in the municipalities. With these funds, the government will ensure that all municipalities and urban areas in Norway can recruit psychologists in the field of compulsory entry into force in 2020. From 2020 onwards, the funds will be allocated to the local authority framework. The government prioritises efforts to improve care for the elderly. We'll make sure that older people get a decent, safe and rich everyday life, even when old age makes life change. Over the period, we have provided more than 13 000 lucky day care spots. Now we're going to give investment grants to 1,500 more. We also want to improve the provision of elderly people living at home, and therefore propose a grant to 450 new day-time activities for residents with dementia. Activity offers are important for living a good life with dementia. By 2020, all municipalities shall provide day-to-day activities to residents with dementia. In line with the Storting decision, we raise the State investment grant for new day activities sites from 30 pst. to 50 pst. The government has launched State funding schemes for the care of the elderly. For the time being, the evaluation of the experiment shows good results for the municipalities involved. Older people have received a better offer, and employees show that their skills are increased through the experiment, that they understand the user’s needs and situation better, and that they cooperate better within the municipality. The government will extend and extend the exercise of state funding for the care of the elderly, both in time and in the number of municipalities. The government will strengthen care for the elderly in other areas as well. In order to focus more on the needs of the elderly and the services in the care of the elderly, the current patient and user needs to be expanded by a national elderly representative. Older people constitute a large group of patients and users of healthcare services. The Government therefore considers it important that they are given a national representative to respect their rights. It shall not be necessary for the elderly and relatives to go to the media for help. With the older reform Life throughout our lives, we work for better care of the elderly all over the country. The reform period shall start on 1 January 2019. The reform is based on the basic conditions that most often fail in the provision of older people: food, activity and community, health care and the coherence of services. Over the reform period up to 2023, the government will support the efforts of municipalities to increase older people’s joy, quality of life and security. Municipalities implementing the reform will be rewarded and prioritised in state support schemes. This government brings Norway closer together. With the budget proposal for 2019, the appropriations for transport will have increased by 75 pst. since we joined. Road and track construction is important for Norwegian enterprises. It provides safer transport for more people, and Norwegian companies get their goods on the market faster. It means saving time and saving money. At the same time, it gives a simpler travel everyday for all of us, whether you commute to work or go to kindergarten. In 2019, we therefore propose to continue the strong investment on roads, rail and public transport. We're continuing to expand road projects in all parts of the country, and we're going to maintain the roads we already have. Recent asphalt, more and better roads make life a little easier for the inhabitants and for the business community. We are going to repair our ports, so that more goods can be transported environmentally by sea rather than by road, and that Norwegian fishermen can sell more fish and create even more jobs. The alternative to the car needs to be better. New train rails are to be laid, and we're going to get more modern trains. New trainsets are being installed in the east to increase the capacity of the rush hour, and new trains are being installed on the Voseban. This will give you a better travel experience. In addition, several new railway projects are under construction and funds are allocated to start-up new projects which have been extended for a long time. We are also proposing more resources for public transport and for walking and cycling. Urban environment and urban growth agreements and the reward scheme are increased by 45 p.m. in the draft budget for 2019. People have to come out faster and safer, whether you're dependent on a car or traveling collectively. When we invest heavily in the maintenance and construction of new and modern infrastructure, we promote a competitive, productive and profitable business life, and we facilitate well-functioning housing and labour markets across the country. Living a good life is also about security, about being able to live in a society of peace and order, knowing that someone is protecting us and what is ours and that they are able to act when needed. For a long time, we have been on guard against war and unrest in our neighbourhoods. The evolution of the world around us gives some cause for concern. The defence of the country is one of the most important tasks of the state to ensure our freedom and the sovereignty of Norway. The defence budget has had a real growth of 20 pst. since 2013 and in that budget the Government further strengthens its commitment. We're increasing the budget by 4 billion. kr. That means we're going to spend the entire 59 billion. kr at Försvaret in 2019. The objectives of the Long-term Defence Plan are followed up by an increase of 2.8 billion. kr. We need to invest in new submarines, new surveillance aircraft, new artillery for the Army and in three new ships for the Coast Guard – several years before the original plan. We're also increasing the ambition of the land force, and adding up to more exercises in Homeland Security. Norway is one of the most digitised countries in the world. If Norway, as a nation, is to be equipped to respond to the vulnerabilities arising from digitisation, it is essential that we give priority to the work on ICT security. That's what this government is doing. ICT security is the next generation of object protection. The government will strengthen national ICT security with investments in testing, research and development of competences. We are also proposing to increase the funding for the PST, and the work on object protection in the police. In addition, we're proposing to allocate 865 million. kr to a new emergency centre, which will ensure the securing of an additional third of the police protection features. We are also accelerating several planned security projects in the defence sector. In order to provide security in everyday life, more policemen with good basic training and quick access to proper and good equipment, cars and helicopters are needed. The government will continue to strengthen preparedness, prevent better and increase efforts against criminal acts and environments. In our draft budget for next year, it is set at 20 billion. The police. We are on track to reach the target of two police officers per thousand citizens on a national basis by 2020. Increased police staffing contributes to better services throughout the country and builds on several of the objectives of the near-police reform. In 2019, three new police helicopters will be in place. Together with the new Emergency Response Centre, this will strengthen the police’s ability to respond quickly and coordinated when events occur. The government also proposes to step up efforts against juvenile delinquency and gangs, especially to combat Oslo’s gang problems, and to prevent more gangs from growing. Both the Oslo police and child protection are receiving earmarked funds. We can rejoice that the Norwegian economy is now doing well. The fall after the oil price drop is over. We're in a new boom. Economic policy has made an important contribution to this. Now we must not destroy this by giving too much gas in economic policy. We must continue to work to provide the basis for long-term change and growth. It's a top priority for the government. At the same time, we ensure the welfare systems, and we contribute to a sustainable welfare society. I hope I can stand here in the years to come and tell you that it went well again, that we managed the clouds that came and shaded the sun – the challenges, that more people were included in the working life and feel belonging to the Norwegian community, that we gave more children a good start to life, that more people completed the education cycle, that we lifted the integration, that those who needed it, got help, that Norway became safer, that we seized the technological opportunities, that emissions continued to fall, and that we stand ever stronger in the transformation that is still going on. The state budget for 2019 is the first budget submitted by the enlarged government. It responds to the challenges ahead of us. It is a budget for a strong and strong Norway. It's a budget where we use good times, a budget that improves our everyday lives, our security and our future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-08.ana.ud143e283	The President will propose that a short comment round be opened, limited to one entry from each group with a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. After each post from the opposition parties, the Minister of Finance will be given an opportunity to comment for up to 2 minutes. Thereafter, the representative of the opposition party is given the opportunity to comment on the final report for up to 2 minutes. Furthermore, it is proposed that a comment by the Minister of Finance or the Prime Minister be opened up in up to 3 minutes to the end. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-08.ana.ud143e294	We're going to be glad that things are going better in the Norwegian economy. Expected growth next year is high. The oil price is high, the crown is still weak, the interest rates are low. We have had social partners who have helped us to get through a crisis and which means that the Norwegian economy has almost recovered. We share that with the Minister of Finance in her presentation of the State budget. But there are some worrying features in the budget that are being presented, because we have heard a government that is busy talking about how the differences are increasing. We see that there is a government that once again presents significantly increased tax cuts, in the billion-dollar class, while we heard in advance that there is an effort of 180 million. kr to reduce child poverty. There is evidence that this government does not take into account what is necessary to help us to have more equality and fewer increased differences in society. It is good that unemployment goes down, but it goes down very slowly. We now have a unique opportunity – now that things are going better in the Norwegian economy – to make sure that we get the whole people to work. That possibility does not use the government. There are too few Norwegian jobs created. The measures in the State budget do not appear to be in line with the actual unemployment rate and with all those outside the labour market. There are still more than 100 000 unemployed. There are many, and there needs to be greater pressure to get them out of work. The Minister of Finance said something about the municipal economy and about the hospital economy. That is what is important for most people – important for our good schools, good care for the elderly and good hospital services. The figures presented today do not take into account demographic growth. It is the weakest municipal budget in a long time. And when we look at the hospital budget, we see that it is also very weak. Here we need to pay more attention to getting the good deals out in the municipal sector. After hearing the United Nations report on the climate situation this morning, it is difficult to see the government taking into account the climate situation. Here we also need to raise more.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-08.ana.ud143e307	I am very pleased that the Workers' Party and Rigmor Aasrud share the opinion that things are going better in the Norwegian economy, because they do – the arrows point in the right direction. But I totally disagree with the claim that the government prioritizes tax cuts rather than doing something about child poverty. I think that is an advantage if the representative Aasrud reads the entire budget. It's not that the child poverty effort is only 180 million. kr. It's over 900 million. kr. There is a strong commitment to combating child poverty with effective and targeted instruments. We're going to be happy with that. This is also the case – because I agree with the representative of Aasrud – that we need to create more jobs. But to do that, we need competitive framework conditions for our business. Then it means something about whether our tax system works, or whether we're making arrangements to move the companies and the capital out of the country. The prerequisite for more people to get to work is that more jobs are created. And I want to remind you that over the last two years, employment in this country has increased by 70,000 people. Only in the last year did 46 000 enter the labour force. It shows that we're on the right track. At this stage, the time has come to bring in the scope of inclusion, in order to enable many of those who have long felt on the outside of the labour market, through targeted instruments, to take this step into the labour market. In the case of the local economy, it has increased every year. We've considered demography. It is the joy of these figures that the estimates for demographic development have fallen. This will strengthen the local economy through the 2.6 billion. kr in free income to which the government provides. As for the reference to climate: well, the numbers speak for themselves. Emissions are going down. It is the most offensive climate budget that has been put forward for many years. It's because we're taking our challenges seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-08.ana.ud143e320	It is expected that the Minister of Finance will defend his budget, but on our side we still believe that it is very weak in terms of distribution. The budget is weak for the municipal sector and for hospitals, I don't think we can get out of it. So it's a budget that still gives large tax credits to those who have the most, it's a budget and a tax arrangement that's not in line with the tax settlement we made with the government a short time ago. We're going to be the country that might go the furthest in cutting the tax rates for business. When we compare with many other OECD countries, we're on our way to being completely at the bottom in terms of tax rates. We think that's wrong. It's a budget that doesn't help to reduce the differences that are in our country. So, from the Labour Party's point of view, it is absolutely necessary that we do more to strengthen local government budgets. That's where people live, that's where we need more teachers, that's where we need more hospitals, that's where we need more jobs. In addition, when we see that the regional development funds – which are an important tool for creating jobs in rural areas – are cut, and when we see that taxes increase for those who commute by cutting the tax deduction for some of the travel expenses, this is a budget that needs to be worked much more on to improve the distribution profile. Of course, we're going to go through what's now presented by the government, and we're going to look very carefully at the tax arrangements, but some of the tax cuts that the government is now proposing, we're not going to be able to support. It does not contribute to the distribution profile we believe is absolutely necessary in the situation we are now in.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-08.ana.ud143e329	The Minister of Finance has today presented a budget that is very well adapted to the economic situation in our country. The four non-socialist parties have jointly taken Norway safely through an oil price drop which also led to an increase in unemployment and decline, particularly in the South and Western countries. Therefore, it is very happy to see that the growth is now back in the Norwegian economy. The vacancy continues to fall, the share of the job is rising, and we see that 46 000 more people, who were previously outside the closet, are in work – only from 2017 to 2018. In order to finance the welfare promises we are now going to spend money on in Stortinget this autumn, more people have to work. Therefore, it is very gratifying that we have a government that also prioritises strengthening the income side of our country over time, that we have a government that proposes measures to create more profitable jobs in the private sector, and that we are committed to including several of those who have been outside, into the labour market. It's important for the sustainability of our welfare society, it's important to finance the welfare systems we're involved in, but it's not least important for everyone who's experienced standing outside, and who now gets that phone – when they're a little late in the morning – from someone who asks, "Where is it going to be?" It's well-being for people to feel that they're in demand and needed in a workplace. If this budget is adopted, a family with two very common incomes will have received DKK 11000 in lower taxes each year through the now six most recent budgets. It also helps to provide security to the small communities of our society, security to families who know that the mortgage can be paid on time – that they can provide well for themselves and their families and thus also be safe for the economy to bear. Creating more in Norway also means that there is room for further raising and bets on the welfare side. This allows us to invest in building and maintaining roads and railways, to expand the system of free core time in kindergartens to include two-year-olds, and to further invest in defending our country and securing it with a good and effective police force. Norway is once again the world’s best country to live in. It is not something that has come of itself, nor is it a law of nature that Norway will continue to be named for it. An important part of Norwegian success is that Norway has had the ability and the willingness to change and change what needs to be changed to keep the most beautiful in our country. This budget provides a good basis for creating, benefiting and renewing. This is a good budget for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-08.ana.ud143e342	I want to start by thanking Siv Jensen for a good budget that spends the good time getting more people to work, building a viable welfare society and creating a safer Norway. It is also a budget with solid Progress Party images. I want to mention six things that I'm particularly pleased with. The first is that the fees go down with this draft budget. Siv Jensen proposes to reduce the fees on chocolate and sugar products back to the 2017 level. With that signal, we are addressing the challenge of ESA, but also the challenge of border trade, of which the Progress Party is very busy. In addition, the government brings down a selection that will look at this fee and the restriction, but also look at the charges associated with noise. It's a work that I want to follow very closely. And we are very pleased that the budget is clear that a set of down charges for most people. Perhaps the most important thing for families is that one reduces electricity charges by half a billion dollars, which will mean a lot for ordinary people. Then the Progress Party is very pleased that the defence is strengthened in the draft budget. Here the government follows the long-term and land-use agreements to ensure that we have a good defence. It is not a secret that the progress party is very busy with car fees. Over five years of cooperation with the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Right, we have managed to keep a lower car tax for most people, combined with a good environmental profile that allows people to buy safe, environmentally friendly, good new cars. Many have been concerned that an EU conversion of the measurement system would lead to more expensive cars. This budget proposal does not happen, and the Progress Party will ensure once again in the government that the car charges go down. So we are very pleased that we, who have the Minister of Older People, today offer a proposal to get elderly people to live in the whole country and with a little more focus on the care of the elderly. Furthermore, one will ensure that the reform Live your whole life, which begins on 1 January, ensures that older people will have an even better care, with a good smell of food, good activities and a focus on living a good life throughout their lives. We're also glad that there's going to be a package of our own against recrime, which is a challenge, especially in this city. Here the government proposes a number of measures, both to strengthen police action, to strengthen child protection and to follow-up youth through more resources to the conflict councils. By looking at this in a sanity, we're making sure that we get a grip on reindeer crime. The last important Progress Party case is that we reduce ownership taxes – a big one says in the government platform, which is already proposed in the first financial year. We're going to have a lot of fun.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-08.ana.ud143e359	It's almost touching to listen to Helge André Njåstad, who boasts that there will be an elder representative. I understand that there is a need for an elderly representative with the local authority that is here, because it is the elderly who are going to be affected by the local authority. It's the worst municipality we've seen in years. The major losers in the municipal scheme are among others: the elderly woman who lives in a nursing home, the one who lives in a nursing home, the one who needs an activist, the one who needs better food. It is going to be cut for many older people around Norway with the municipal structure available from the government today. It's a bad community arrangement. There's a lot of earmarked bets, and it doesn't go to the elderly, those who need it, around Norwegian municipalities. So it's also quite touching when Siv Jensen drives and boasts of cuts in the electricity charge, and when Helge André Njåstad raises it like the big winner, when he knows that he cuts a fifth of what they have increased. So – once you have taken in NOK 100, and then you give back NOK 20, you boast: we are so good, because now we have increased the electricity charge by just four times instead of the five. That's the fact. The electricity charge has increased several times after the next time with the current government, and then they return 1 cent now, and then you boast of it. That is what has been so irresponsible with today's government, namely the charging policy. When you look at the sugar tax today, why don't you do something with non-alcoholic drinks? Why do you think it's okay that factories like Oskar Sylte now lose money and maybe not survive? There is no reason to wait, it was completely irresponsible what happened last year. The government itself writes in its own budget that the 350-kroner limit is an aid for foreign shops and a penalty for Norwegian shops. Why don't you do something about it? Then it's a sad day for all of us who are happy in Norwegian maritime industry and Norwegian seafarers. Because what the government is saying now is that we don't have to have Norwegian seafarers anymore on Color Line – 700 new jobs away. It doesn't seem like it worries the Progress Party one place that Norwegian jobs disappear, as we saw in the food industry last year, as we see for Norwegian seafarers now, and as we will see for Oskar Sylte and other factories next year, and in Norwegian commerce. Then there's something in the tax treatment this year again. That's where you tighten up commuting. Those who have to go through a lot of bombs have been able to deduct toll costs from the commuting allowance. No, it seems that Siv Jensen and the Progress Party do not agree. Tolls are to go to the state cash register unabated, so you tighten the rules for those who run through the bombs, and those who run ferries. Agricultural deductions, fishing deductions, commuter deductions, Finnland supplements — all possible measures to ensure that we have a policy for Norway as a whole. One cuts back on the regional development funds, which are a commitment to creating jobs around the whole of our country. There is a new budget for major differences, more centralisation and job relocation out of Norway. It's unwise politics, and the country needs a new course.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-08.ana.ud143e370	I am absolutely sure that the representative Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum has had to change his script a few times from yesterday, because I think he had plans to say something completely different. The husband of the black paint on the municipal economy! This government has strengthened the municipal economy every year. There have never been fewer municipalities on the ROBEK list. The profits in the municipal sector are high. Claiming that this is a budget that makes older people the big losers, is with respect to notifying customs. This is a budget that will provide a strengthened framework for municipalities next year. It is the municipalities that have the primary responsibility for the care of the elderly. It is one of the core tasks of the municipalities, and I expect them to continue to work to improve the quality of care for the elderly, to expand new care facilities, to facilitate good experiences, whether in their own home or in a care centre. So yes, this money is definitely going to strengthen care for our older people next year as well. With regard to the tax and tax arrangements, I would like to remind you that we have reduced the total tax and tax burden by 25 billion. with this budget. It creates new jobs, more jobs and strengthens our competitiveness. We have also found room for tax relief in this budget – I am pleased about that. To claim that the government is not involved in Norwegian workplaces is probably a faulty conclusion from Schlagsvold Vedum. The prerequisite for creating more jobs in Norway is that we have a profitable and competitive tax system. If we don't have it, capital will be moved out of the country, and jobs will be established on the outside of Norway. A number of enterprises are now being set up, the investment ambition is higher than it has been for a long time. The rise we see, is broad and comes across the country and in many industries. In other words, it's going well. As for the commuters, I'd like to ask Battle Force Vedum to read a little bit more about it, because it's not that you shouldn't be able to get a deduction for tolls. We have now set an overall ceiling for the travel allowance. He makes it sound fissile and small, but there is a limit of 97 000 kroner in deduction. It's a good frame, and it's primarily a cleanup... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-08.ana.ud143e383	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-08.ana.ud143e389	In the case of tolls, Siv Jensen knows very well that there will be a new toll record next year. Some people who have additional costs of travelling to work, and when the government then takes the grips they take on commuting deductions, commuters get less deductions next year than they get this year. It's a fact. Those with extra high costs, e.g. in the case of tolls or ferries, even less deductions are made. Then, unfortunately, it is a fact that it is in the government budget that 700 Norwegian jobs are to be flagged out in Color Line. Of course, that means a lot to the 700 families that are affected by it. We believe that this is an unwise policy, because we want to have a living Norwegian maritime industry. It is also a fact that the government has done in the Norwegian food industry: a tax shock was given to the entire industry last year and some parts of it were reduced this year, but still leaves the 350-kroner limit. The government itself writes, in its own proposal, that this is a disadvantage for the Norwegian commercial industry. So I'm taking the government's policy seriously. And in terms of fees, it has been one of the areas where the government has sprung and jumped up and down, and it has affected Norwegian jobs and Norwegian value creation around in Norway. It is also sad to see systematic cuts in all measures to contribute to jobs around our country. Now the grant is to create new jobs around the counties more than half since Siv Jensen took over the government. Today’s government has become a government for parts of Norway — a government for major differences, not for minor differences, and a government that has forgotten that Norway’s high quality is that it has created growth and development in both large and small places. And for all those who have been involved in the regional reform, reading today's municipal structure has to be a great disappointment. There is no effort, no new measures to create viable regions around Norway, and we would have needed that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-08.ana.ud143e404	It has been interesting to keep up with the media in the last few days, with countless budgetary leaks from the government. The sun shines all over the country, says the Minister of Finance. I think a lot of people feel that the sun doesn't shine on them. Last week, SV 15 proposals were made to investigate how the government's well-being has turned people off most. We talk about cutting housing, cutting disability, cutting the child supplement for disability, cutting redundancy payments and cutting transition benefits for lone parents – to mention something. The parties voted against examining the consequences of their own policies. I guess the reason is that it's easier for them to continue these welfare cuts if we don't get a review of the consequences. That is why, in today's budget, we also see that the welfare cuts, the so-called ABE cuts, are continuing. We also see that it is tax aggravation for many. It was cut to counties, and 700 sailors in Color Line lost their jobs. Norway has become a country that in five years has been able to afford to distribute DKK 283 000 on average to the richest, 0.02 pst. of the population, but who cannot afford to strengthen our well-being, who cannot afford to fight poverty and reduce differences. We should have a more progressive and redistributive tax system, but now the wealthiest are going to get even more into tax cuts. That's $700 million. kr less to the community. Two important documents have been submitted today, and one can say that we do not live up to the other. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has produced a very fresh report that is quite gloomy reading. It shows that if the world continues as it is now, we're on our way to a four-degree heating. The 1.5 degree target may be lost with today's emissions and there will be serious consequences. Climate Minister Ola Elvesuen says to the NRK: ‘We need to have much faster reductions in greenhouse gas emissions than has so far been notified to the Paris Agreement. All countries need to take much more action.’ Well, where do I find the follow-up to this in the state budget? Where are the increased ambitions for how fast we are going to cut greenhouse gas emissions? Where are the more measures? Climate change is not something that can be solved at another time by anyone else. It happens here and now, and the government is failing this task. SV, together with the Workers' Party, has therefore made a proposal with nearly 40 measures to cut greenhouse gas emissions because Norway has to do its part of the job. There should have been a budget to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and differences in Norway. It should be a budget for the many and not for the few. The best thing about this budget is that it may not be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-08.ana.ud143e420	This was a description of reality it's hard to recognize. This is not a budget for the few; it is a budget for the many. This is a budget that addresses the main challenges we are actually facing, whether in combating child poverty, or in facilitating more integration or creating more jobs, or we are talking about reducing greenhouse gas emissions. This is an offensive climate budget. There's a billion wager on strengthening the climate action that we know works. Greenhouse gas emissions are falling. It is possible that the representative Kaski has not got it, or rather will not deal with the facts, but that is the case. They have not been lower since 1995. And then maybe you can start to think about the tools that we're using. There is obviously a great distance between government instruments and red-green instruments. We can see that, among other things. the effect of in Oslo. This is also not a budget that gives tax relief to the rich. This is a budget that guarantees our opportunities to create more jobs around the whole country. This is the prerequisite for continuing to strengthen well-being in Norway. Without income, we have very little to do with distribution policies, but Norway is still a country with small differences. Now we address the main challenges we face, including: to use better tools to combat child poverty. I have to say that I understand that the opposition's job is to look for things they disagree with in the budget, but there are limits to blackmailing a growth budget that is set in all the important areas that we need in the years to come, and we are taking vigorous steps with the budget for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-08.ana.ud143e429	This budget – and this has also been in the leaks from the government so far – is said to be committed to combating child poverty. Well, we've found compensation for the poor children's families in the budget. It's at 181 million. kr. It's a quarter of the tax cuts to the richest, which are also given in the same budget. It says something about the priorities that lie here. They prioritise tax cuts, but pay for them with welfare cuts, and those welfare cuts are hidden throughout the budget and are going to affect a wide range of different parts of public welfare. It goes to the hospitals, it goes to higher education, we see cuts in regional funds and cuts in criminal care, we've seen cuts in legal aid, and we see cuts in students' scholarships. There is at all a wide range of welfare measures in this budget. Nor is it what the Minister of Finance says, a budget that takes climate change seriously. The projections for greenhouse gas emissions in this budget show that climate targets are not being met – not in 2020, not 2030, not 2050. So when I criticise the government for the lack of commitment to climate change, it's because we don't see any new climate measures in this budget, nothing that reflects what the UN has underlined today: we have to tighten up our climate targets, we have to put new climate action on the table. The fact that emissions are going down is because, as we know in this room, we have a climate policy that is drenched in palm oil. It is rain forest cut in Indonesia that we contribute to, not climate cut in Norway. That is why I still believe there are good reasons to criticise the budget that has been presented today. It is not a budget that addresses the major and important challenges we face, namely reducing disparities and reducing greenhouse gas emissions in order to ensure a policy for the many and not for the few.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-08.ana.ud143e438	When the representative Kaski says it's 181 million. kr alone to combat child poverty, is not correct. For example, it lies. also – just to mention one more thing – half a billion for integration actions. Of course, it will also help to reduce poverty. 265 days ago, Left joined the Solberg government. We were convinced that the best way to make Norway greener, rustier and more social liberal was from the government position. We owed our voters responsibility, take responsibility for more personal freedom, better environmental protection and equal opportunities for all the Nordics. The budget has a greener, more rustier and more social-liberal device than ever before. The UN's quota refugee system is a product of world war and misery, in which people are desperately denied entry into several countries. It's a lesson from the war that it'll never happen again. With regard to the number of quota refugees: under the red-green, there were 1000, with the Christian People's Party and the Left as supporting parties, there were about 2,000, and with the Left in the government there were 3,000. Who knows what can happen if the Christian People's Party enters this government? So this would not have happened if the left had not joined the government, and there can be no doubt about that. This is a left-wing victory for the government. 1 pst. of GNI for assistance, total 2.5 billion. In addition, it is clearly a highly desirable political priority. It's demanding to deliver 2.5 billion new ones. It is also a left-wing victory for the government and shows that it was right to go into government. A rustier country is for the Left and for me to take care of the weakest. That is why I am particularly pleased that the government will extend free core time in the kindergarten for two-year-olds. These are families that depend entirely on a good kindergarten offer to make the day go around, to give these children what they deserve, and that these children will be able to decide about their own everyday life and future once in a while. This is a struggle for freedom set in practical policy, another left wing for the government. I also appreciate the effort we need to make on public transport, rail and bicycles and multiply by 3.5 billion. kr, marine litter of 400 million. kr and much more for the environment. This is also clearly a victory for the Left in government. For us, school is the most important tool we have in the modern freedom struggle. It's about enabling the children to shape their own lives. We want generations of young shameless and free people who are able to create a future for themselves. The workplace is the place where most of us are going to spend most of our time in life. This is why the government's main project is also an integration and inclusion tool. Politics is a lot, it's crowns and ears, regulation and law, small and big things, but in the deepest form, politics is about creating freedom and opportunities for all people. It is about priority, compromise and soberness, and the bourgeois government has contributed to this precisely with the Left in the government. The left had never got to this whole thing just as a cooperation party on Stortinget. Today's draft budget is very much a left-wing victory for the government. We in the left are very pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-08.ana.ud143e463	Today, I am particularly pleased that developments in the Norwegian economy are so good, that there are more people today than a year ago who are in work, and that there are more companies that are doing well. I am pleased that this is a budget adapted to the economic situation. After a period of decline in which we have spent a lot of money, it is important that we also manage to tighten up. I am also pleased that the government is following up the consensus we have had in the past, by continuing on the road, on the railways, on research, on higher education – which is important for the conversion of Norway for the future. I note that the government chooses to lower the property tax on working capital, also called the Christian People's Party's model, namely to cut taxes on tractors, equipment and machines in order to avoid any tax on those companies that may not have a surplus. I also see that one chooses to reduce corporate tax on the grounds that we have the highest corporate tax rate in the Nordic region, and that it is important for the choice of country. This is to be thoroughly addressed by the Christian People's Party when we present our alternative budget. I also see that the government chooses to reduce the increase in the sugar charge. The Christian People's Party is concerned that we get a sugar levy that brings public health benefits. When we added the budget last year, we were concerned that we would do something about VAT. We did not understand why there should be low VAT on candy, but high VAT on ordinary goods, so we thought that when you were going to make the deposit, it was a sensible way to do it. But it is no sacred fee from the Christian People's Party, except that I believe the government could propose a differentiation also on drinks, because it is of course that water with taste, like Bris, does not require the same fee as sugary shower. I see that a sample is put down. We will follow that closely, and we hope that good suggestions can be made on how to improve public health out of the sugar levy. Then I would like to stress that the 350-kroner limit, the limit of when it is VAT-free to import goods, should have been done with something, and it will be an important matter for the Christian People's Party in the future. I also record that there is a good commitment to health, to culture, to police, to defence – in several sectors. I am particularly pleased that there is such a strong commitment to assistance – that there is 1 pst., an increase of 2.5 billion. kr. We know that we will create a new everyday life for very many people in this world. But I also record that there is an increase in the maximum price of kindergarten, a reduction in resource-intensive services, that a cutter in regional development funds and makes it more difficult for municipalities in terms of property taxes. We're busy with the action room for the municipalities. Then I also see that there have been some good measures in the climate, but we believe that more is needed. We're also going to be concerned about the conditions for families with children. There I believe that the Council of State could do even more.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-08.ana.ud143e478	I welcome this comment from the Christian People's Party to the budget. It shows that there is no reason for much of the black paint that other opposition parties have come with, but that it's very good here, and that it's going in the right direction. Let me spend some time on the chocolate and sugar confectionery fee and the fee on non-alcoholic beverages. That increase came as part of the budgetary agreement that was concluded here a year ago. I very much agree with the representative Ropstad that when we are going to put down a sample to look at both of these charges, we know that there may have been unintended effects on the chocolate and confectionery fees, which many people have tried to do with over many years without success. Now the industry itself has the opportunity to be involved in designing this. However, in the mandate, the need to take public health into account will be underlined by the government. It's important to see if you can design both of these fees from a health perspective, so we're going to meet the Christian People's Party. So it's true that there's a slight increase in the maximum price of kindergarten, but it's for those of us who have the freedom to pay it, and we're just doing that to strengthen the economy of low-income families. That is the whole point: to take targeted measures to address child poverty. This is about giving free core time in kindergarten also to two-year-olds, who are a good contribution in terms of child poverty, but it is definitely also a contribution in terms of integration. We know that very many of these families are immigrant families, where mother is very often at home, cannot Norwegian, are not very well integrated, and by the fact that the two-year-olds also come to kindergarten, it gives us the opportunity to facilitate that mother too can attend Norwegian courses and get to work, and it will help to strengthen the possibility of getting out of poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-08.ana.ud143e487	I fully share the Council's assessments relating to free core time for two-year-olds. I think that will be an important measure. But it's not like any action in the area of families with children needs to be funded by the rest of the families with children, it can be done by the community, and I'm going to include that in the negotiations. This budget will in any case be the basis for further work, and the Christian People's Party will work on it, as we have done every single year, in a thorough manner and with a normal process until we present our alternative budget. Because what we know is that anyway, by the end of this month, the alternative budget of the Christian People's Party will be extremely important for what the next year's budget will look like. We're going to work for a budget that creates a warmer society, that helps create safe families, that facilitates more time together, that ensures flexibility and freedom of choice for families, and that fights child poverty in an even more powerful way. Through increased child-responsiveness, we can facilitate the birth of more children in this country, as well as through increased one-off support, which we know is one of the reasons why many people choose to have an abortion. We have a proposal to do the third child in the nursery for free, so that those who are unsure if they're going to get number three actually choose to implement it. We're going to be concerned that the teachers' norm is fully funded, that there will be more teachers for the youngest students, and that there will be more adults in kindergartens. We are committed to an even stronger fight against the sorting society: preventing sorting before birth, but also after birth, and facilitating a better life for those with severe disabilities. We want safe elderly people through good care for the elderly, and we want to increase our minimum pension, which we have been doing for years. Then the local economy is important. That's where we're proud of what we've got in the last few years, but we're going to be concerned that it's gonna be good next year as well. We will always see a Christian People's Party fighting for the major global challenges, addressing climate change, and doing even more to combat poverty internationally and combat today's slavery.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-08.ana.ud143e498	The greatest dark cloud shadowing the sun of Siv Jensen and the nation for which she is responsible is called global warming. Only extreme measures can limit global warming to 1.5 degrees. The changes we have to make, humanity has never before seen the makeup of. The extent is enormous, and the pace must be fast. That is what the United Nations Panel on Climate Change says today. In this serious situation, the government in the state budget admits that they are heading towards cutting below a quarter of what is Norway’s responsibility by 2030. I find it sad to hear the Minister of Finance be satisfied with a marginal decline in greenhouse gas emissions – as if it were an alternative at all to increase them in this budget. In addition, we know that many of the emissions are caused by several Norwegians running palm oil on the tank. The UN says that if we keep doing what we do now, we won't be able to grow enough food or get enough water. Hot waves will take lives, floods and precipitation will take several states. Lots of people want to take refuge, and this will also affect us. If we are to avoid this, Norway must stop being a pollution profitor, as we are today when we export oil and gas that leads to ten times more emissions abroad than what we have in Norway. Norway has technology, natural resources, global investment through the pension fund and an enormous potential in renewable energy to be a leader in the global efforts we face. But this budget goes wrong. That's 10 billion. kr more to the road than to the railway, as well as no green taxes, and one cannot even increase the air tax on the long journeys without cutting it for the journeys of which the Norwegians make the most and which also contribute to the most greenhouse gas emissions. That's $0.5 billion. to reduce tolls outside the big cities, but not a dollar to reduce collective prices. And the government continues the subsidies to the oil industry. With the serious climate report in mind, it is incredible that the Minister of Finance will start by focusing on the oil price and drawing a pink picture of our common future, which is neither related to the goal of limiting the heating to 1.5 °C nor to the objectives set by the Stortingen to 40 p.m. Cut by 2030. Where is the policy to remove oil subsidies and stop more climate-depleting Norwegian oil and gas? Where are the environmental taxes for conversion of Norwegian consumption, food production and business? Where are the large-scale efforts on renewable energy? 300 million. kr more to Enova is not enough – it’s not enough, it’s too small. I don't understand how the Christian People's Party should be able to vote for this budget – especially not after the speech we heard before – when climate, our greatest cause of solidarity, is one of the main priorities of the Christian People's Party. That is why I believe that this budget is a parliamentary rejection request, and the Greens will propose a strengthening of the climate law in line with the 1.5 degree target and invite the Stortinget to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-08.ana.ud143e515	A budget is about having more thoughts in your head at once. That is why the government has found room for a strong commitment to climate while at the same time basing on the need to safeguard our welfare society. We have to be able to do more things at once. I am really surprised at the comments made by the Greens in this respect. The problem is that it is not possible to finance the dream castle for which the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European It's also the way that our oil and gas exports are part of the solution to climate problems around the world – that's part of the solution, that's not part of the problem. And the fact that I started my post by describing the consequences of the heavy oil price drop we had in 2014 for the Norwegian economy would really be missing. It gave big parts of our business problems. A lot of people lost their jobs, there were huge challenges over the whole country. Of course, it's important to focus on what we did to get out of it, and we've come strengthened out of it. Now employment is rising, more people are coming to work, unemployment is falling, and we are seeing a wide-ranging growth across the country. We're going to enjoy that, because that's the prerequisite for getting more money into the state fund, which we can use – whether it's on climate action or on other things. It's not a problem in itself that the government manages to prioritize both the road and the track. It's not the roads that create emissions; it's the cars that run on them. That's why we're going to continue with the job we've done to reduce emissions from car traffic. We've done a great job. There are now more low- and zero-emission cars running on the roads than ever before. That is good – it shows that the policy is working and that we are moving in the right direction. But we have to be able to take care of the framework conditions for what has created the basic values on which this country is based. We can't dissociate ourselves from the fact that we're rich in natural resources. We should be proud of that, and therefore the framework conditions for Norwegian business are important for this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-08.ana.ud143e526	The Greens' Economic Policy and Policy Party for the gradual phasing-out of oil industry is precisely about creating the sustainable welfare state to which the government itself says it has as its primary objective to contribute. This is about a reality orientation. I don't know if the government is following in the reports on the oil and gas industry and the enormous development of renewable energy that is happening in the world now. There have been several major reports such as: says we've already found more oil and gas than we can record. The same reports also say that for Norway as a country, which is so exposed to oil and gas, there is a risk of continuing, in particular, the subsidised oil industry with which we now operate, because we are overexposed to a product of which the world wants less and less. The recent DNV report showed that if Norway continues to rely on Europe to demand our gas, it means that Norway plans not to meet the climate targets. And the climate targets we have to achieve, because it is the greatest dark cloud the Minister of Finance has in front of him. For the first time this year, the Government shall report under the Climate Action Act on actions in each sector to help achieve those objectives. The government is not prepared to achieve the target, and then we in the Storting must take responsibility and set concrete sectoral targets for the government, measurable in tonnes of CO 2. The Greens are going to propose this, along with measures that take us there. The Greens will reduce collective prices, have faster train deployment, remove oil subsidies, have faster conversion to zero-emission cars without climate and rainforest destructive biofuels, and we will massively deploy renewable energy. To that end, a new government is needed, and we need a strong Environmental Party of the Greens, which is clearly going to have to be much bigger in the future to continue looking after this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-08.ana.ud143e539	This could have been a joyous day. Today, we could have discussed how we should spend 25 000 extra years in welfare for the benefit of most people, or new welfare reforms as free kindergarten for all four or five-year-olds. But because of Siv Jensen's annual tax cuts, we now have 28 billion. less to be used in this budget. The money's gone from the common fund, and they've ended up in private pockets, a lot of them at the very richest of the country. But one thing is to Siv Jensen: she's holding the traditions. The launch of the budget has become a new brand day in Norway — the day of increased differences. The company tax is cut from 23 to 22 pst. With the government's previous cut, it's going to add up to 11.5 billion. kr in tax cuts on the annual profits of companies. With the cut in corporate tax, Norway is on a race to the bottom that everyone in the country loses – a competition in which the winner himself ultimately remains as a loser. Then this year we see again that the government is taking away the employees, this time with increased taxes in the diet and travel arrangements. It has become more expensive to travel to work, more expensive to eat at work and more expensive to lose a job. At the same time, heirs and shareholders receive tax gifts. This is the recipe for creating a Difference Norway. Siv Jensen says that today the sun shines again throughout the country. Siv Jensen would be a pretty bad meteorologist, because it's both lead gray and search-white outside, but Siv Jensen isn't a very good finance minister either, at least not for those sitting at the bottom of the table. It is wrong what Siv Jensen says about the economic growth in Norway is not distorted. In Norway too, too many people have not been allowed to join the process. The lowest paid among us has got less to route than ten years ago. For them, the sun does not shine. It may tempt you to pray to higher powers, or at least to the Christian People's Party, that this draft budget will never be adopted. This proposal does not smell of fresh money and new opportunities. It smells of injustice and a possible government crisis, and I hope it stays standing like Erna Solberg and Siv Jensen's last attempt to take Norway in the wrong direction, as a kind of will over five years with bourgeois cut policy and increasing inequality.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-08.ana.ud143e552	There was at least one thing I was absolutely sure when I came here today, and it was that I did not get a single ovation from Red and Bears Moxnes for the budget. To that, we have far too different views on what is needed to safeguard the well-being of this country. For some reason, Red has come to realize that the very best thing that can happen to this country is that all growth, and everything that happens, is going to happen through the public sector. It's a very bad way to create values. Rather, what guarantees our well-being and makes it possible for us to maintain all the good welfare arrangements that we across the parties are happy in in this country is that someone creates the values before we can use them. So some people have to create values before politicians can distribute them. Then we depend on having good framework conditions for our business. We depend on the creation of more jobs across the whole country, preferably in private enterprises, for that to happen. The representative of Moxnes continues his fight against private business, which is thus the pillar for us to be able to be well-being in Norway. It is not that having a competitive tax system is a problem for Norway. Rather, it is a prerequisite for the creation of more jobs in the future. It's not that as we continue to work to reduce taxes, it means less to the community and less to well-being. Rather, it is a prerequisite for strengthening welfare in the future, for creating values around our country. Norway does not lead to a reduction in corporate tax, but we have to make sure that the distance between us and countries it is natural to compare with us, does not become too large. I would like to remind you that our neighbouring country Sweden has decided to reduce the corporate tax to 20.6 pst. in 2021. The distance to Norway is still going to be great, but we were told in the tax notice adopted by the Stortinget that we should not just go down to 23 pst, but that we had to keep looking at developments as needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-08.ana.ud143e563	Jensen has misunderstood. Redly, those who create the values, those who work in the companies, will retain more of their value creation, while the government will give more to the owners. They replace the taskbar with 'arbitrary'. Now people have to get up early to inherit Norway. Then you'll have to make good money under Siv Jensen and Erna Solberg's regime. What can be sad reading for someone, at the same time – I will admit – can be enjoyable reading for others. It's just to congratulate the winners of the year, not least the money supply, the family dynasties that once again escape taxes when large assets are inherited. We can congratulate the welfare professionals, who can continue to draw huge sums from our well-being to private enrichment. There are no measures against it in the budget. Let's not forget the salmon barons, which pick up the pink gold from our fjords without having to pay a fraction of the tax paid by the oil industry. They've won before, and they win this year again. I would also like to congratulate two of the biggest winners of this government, the Andresen sisters, who have inherited the Ferd group. They've only got over 181 million. kr in tax cuts during the period of the Party of Advancement and the Right has driven the country. The two alone have received more than the great effort to reduce the poverty of children in Norway that the government boasts of today. It's with respect to report quite so ridiculous. It is not least also ridiculous that a government that increases the tax on people who are going to work, who eat at work, and who lose their jobs, boasts of lowering the tax on workers. I also think that is directly ridiculous.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-08.ana.ud143e572	State Council Siv Jensen gets the floor for a summarizing, concluding article.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-08.ana.ud143e577	After this round, I think we should take a step back and raise our eyes a little, because even after hearing parts of the opposition's black paint, I think we have to be able to see that things are going well in this country. Most of us are doing well, most of us are at work, most of us are getting the help we need when we need it. That's exactly why the government is using force in this budget to help those who fall outside. We know that there are people who need our help, whether it's to master drug addiction or mental disorders, or it's to get out of work or get integrated. All this amounts to the government in next year's budget. We do it because we can. We're doing it because it's going well. We do it because the Norwegian economy is growing. And the reason why the Norwegian economy is growing is that we have systematically built up competitive framework conditions for private business over time. We're going to keep doing that, because that's the key to creating more jobs. In the situation we are in now, we may for the first time in many years have the opportunity to help several of those who have felt parked outside the labour market for years, who have felt that there are insurmountable obstacles to getting in. They are now seen, heard and met with effective instruments and measures, through cooperation between public authorities and the private sector. We're going to have to use this option. If we slide it away this time too, it will be a challenge for the sustainability of our future economy. And that's why we're going to use the good times we're now in, to bet on this. But we must not do it at the expense of the framework conditions of our business, but rather be proud of the thousands of thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises across the whole country that put down a formidable effort every single day to keep the wheels going in this country. There's an impression that we're messing with the districts and the huts and we're doing it. That's not right either. It's going well all over the country. In typical districts, it's fine, leave is low. Growth in Norway is widespread, so it costs. And most of the businesses in this country are not in Oslo. They're out in District Norway. They depend as much on the companies in Oslo that we have competitive framework conditions, that we have taxes and taxes that can match the framework conditions in other countries. They depend on us building the infrastructure further. They depend on us betting on research and development. They depend on us having a good education system, which not only qualifies young students but also qualifies us through a whole working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-08.ana.ud143e590	So we're done with case no. 1st@item: inlistbox The President will propose that the Minister of Finance's statement on the government's draft government budget and on the national budget for 2019 be discussed at a later meeting. – No objection has been raised, and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-08.ana.ud143e608	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
