ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e80	The representatives of Ingunn Foss, Abid Q. Raja, Heidi Nordby Lunde, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Guri Melby, Mazyar Keshvari, Solfrid Lerbrück, Liv Signe Navarsette, Jorodd Asphjell and Elise Björnbeck-Waaagen, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For the Nordic region: Kjell-Idar Juvik For the counties of Troms: Kari-Anne Opsal Two permit applications are available: from the Workers' Group on sickness leave of the representative Else-May Botten from 14 May onwards and until further notice from the Right-wing Group on sick leave for the representative, Tina Bru, starting on 14 May until further notice
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e144	On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Tove-Lise Torve For the Rogaland County: Aase Simonsen
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e165	Tove-Lise Torve and Aase Simonsen are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e172	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Stortinge meeting this week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Svein Harberg. – Other proposals are not available, and Svein Harberg is unanimously elected president of this week’s meetings. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16 until the current map has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e194	The Presidency shall present its position on proposal No. 80, from Björn Moxnes, concerning the election of members of the Nobel Committee and the role of the Stortinge in this respect. As you know, the Stortinget has asked the presidency to set up a selection to assess the process and eligibility of members of the committees, selections and names appointed by the Stortinget. It also includes the Nobel Committee. The committee that has been set up is now working on these questions and is also taking part in the participation of the representative, Mr Moxnes. The term of office of the Committee shall, in accordance with the Presidency's view, cover the last part of the proposal for a representative, for an assessment of the principles for the election of members of the Nobel Committee on the basis of the political parties' mandates. However, the representative proposal goes beyond the mandate of that committee. It is proposed that the Presidency of the Storting should carry out an investigation into the purpose of the Nobel Peace Prize and the role of the Stortinge as an electoral body for the members of the Committee. Firstly, the Presidency cannot see that it would be a natural task for the Stortinget, appointed by Alfred Nobel as the electoral body of the members of the Nobel Committee, to initiate an investigation of Nobel’s purpose at the Peace Prize. This is the Nobel Committee's domain. In this context, the task of the European Parliament is to select the members of the Committee, not to decide on matters relating to the basis of the Peace Prize. In the view of the presidency, it would be directly unfortunate if the Storting took such an initiative, which is so obviously outside the remit of the Storting. What we have learned is also a need to mark the Nobel Committee's independence from the Storting. The kind of exercises that are invited here will not contribute to it – rather on the contrary. Nor does the Presidency see the need to carry out an investigation into the role of the Storting as the Nobel Committee's electoral committee. It is true, as the author points out, that the task is on the side of the Constitutional function of the Storting, but the same can be said of several other committees, committees and councils to which members are elected. This is a task Stortinget in its time undertook, in line with Nobel’s own wish – and which eventually has a tradition of over 100 years. In the view of the Presidency, there are no circumstances that warrant a reassessment of this now. A unanimous presidency is then in favour of the non-adoption of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e209	I would like to add a few words to the proposal made by the Central Party. No one is surprised that there are divided opinions about the Peace Prize and the Norwegian Nobel Committee. We've all been thinking about some peace prizes – whether or not they well reflect Alfred Nobel's spirit and will, and whether or not the Nobel Committee has made a wise choice one or the other year. I nevertheless believe that one should be very careful to walk from this and to claim that there is something institutionally or formally wrong with the Nobel Committee or the fact that the Storting appoints the members of the committee. To begin with, there is no doubt that Alfred Nobel wanted the Norwegian Grand Prix to appoint members of the committee awarding the Nobel Peace Prize. Here the will is perfectly clear. The setting correctly states that the task of Storting in this context is only relevant as an appointment body. That Stortinget was going to throw himself into assessing the purpose of the Nobel Peace Prize, I think it is going completely wrong. It is not part of the role of the Storing in this context, and it violates the principle of independence of the Nobel Committee. Then we have the discussions that have gone here in the Chamber for the last year, about who can't be elected to the Nobel Committee. Here, Stortinget has drawn up some lines to ensure that there is a necessary distance between Stortinget as a People's Chosen Body and the Nobel Committee. We have also set up a sample to follow-up this problem with a comprehensive review and evaluate the processes of selection for all external committees, selections and names appointed by the Stortinge. The Committee shall give its opinion in June. The present proposal for a representative, if adopted, concerns this process, and the Central Party will therefore not support it. We will await the review of the sample and see if there are improvement points that need to be addressed. I would like to mention in particular that it is entirely inappropriate for the Centre Party to support some investigation into whether it is natural for the Stortinget to continue as a ‘private Swedish foundation’ electoral committee, as stated in the proposal for a representative. It is striking how this breaks with Alfred Nobel’s will, which states that «a committee of five persons elected by the Norwegian Stortinget» shall distribute the prize to «peacekeepers». [[...]] The Central Party therefore aligns itself with the assessments made by the Presidency and supports the rejection of the proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e226	Red will today present the following proposals in the context of the examination of the case: ‘The Grand Duchy requests the Presidency to conduct an investigation with a view to clarifying the purpose of Alfred Nobel’s Peace Prize.’ It is high time that we now have a debate on Stortinget's responsibility to respect Alfred Nobel's intention of the Peace Prize. Nobel had a clear purpose in instituting the prize, namely to make a prize to support and promote peace fighters and their efforts to promote peace congresses, disarmament and the cremation of nations. Unfortunately, the Stortingen has not followed up the intention sufficiently. Too many organisations and people who have consistently devoted themselves to peace and disarmament have been neglected, ignored and invisible, while a number of power politicians who have launched attacks and contributed to disarmament rather than disarmament have received the Peace Prize. Other Peace Prize winners have served good purposes that deserve all support and praise, but do activities that are quite far from peacemaking and disarmament. Therefore, on 30 November last year, Red promoted a proposal to examine the purpose of the Nobel Peace Prize and the role of the Storting in the election of members of the Committee. Today we have an arrangement in which the members of the Nobel Committee are elected by the Storting on the basis of partial loyalty, not knowledge of peacemaking. The struggle around Carl I. Hagen's desire to sit in the committee showed that many politicians are now fully open to the fact that a position in the Nobel Committee is something one has in some ways the right to through long and faithful service in top politics, not something to be earned through commitment to peace and disarmament. The fact that the Committee is filled with politicians but lacks both peace activists and professional experts is unfortunately reflected in many of the awards. A whole 17 professors at the legal faculties of Oslo, Bergen and Tromsø sent last year a letter to the presidency with clear notice that the Stortinget has obligations to deal with Nobel's intention of the Peace Prize. It means ensuring that the Nobel Committee is made up of the most qualified for the purpose of the Peace Prize. As is so often the case when some people are earned to maintain a situation, the impression is that something is inevitable, that there is no alternative. That's wrong. Originally, the committee that distributed the Nobel Peace Prize was a trade committee. It consisted of professionally qualified people, among others. by the peace movement, which shared the Nobel's desire to support peace fighters and to contribute to international peace congresses, disarmament and the breaking up of nations. Only in 1948 did this change. That year, the majority of the population began to elect members of the Nobel Committee on the basis of the criterion of party membership. It was this great representative, Hambro, who called making the Nobel Committee a party political exchange. Fortunately, not the same has happened to the committees that distribute the other Nobel prizes, they continue to function as trade unions. So the option exists, and it can be used as a model also for the work on the peace price. So it's right, as it says in the setting, that a selection at Stortinget today carries out a work to assess the process and the eligibility of the committees, selections and names appointed by the Stortinget, including the Nobel Committee. We follow the recommendation that the part of our proposal on the appointment of the Nobel Committee may be promoted in this selection. Then we hope the other parties will not doubt the Nobel Committee as a party political exchange, to use the words of Hambro. But regardless of the work of that committee, the need to clarify Alfred Nobel's intention with the peace prize is equally fully present. It is primarily the politicians on the Stortinget and the politicians who the Stortinget appoints to sit on the Nobel Committee, who are responsible for following Alfred Nobel's will. When these have interpreted themselves so far from Nobel's intentions with the Peace Prize, it is natural, we believe, that the Storting is taking action to clean up and clarify what was the original purpose of the Peace Prize. That is why I take up Red's proposal on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e248	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e266	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e275	I would like to start by thanking the Committee for a very good cooperation, which means that we are promoting a unanimous attitude for the Stortinget today. The four parliamentary leaders of the Workers' Party, SV, the Centre Party and the Christian People's Party made a proposal – in four points – that three should be a key element in the new government quarter. Today, we are promoting a unanimous attitude that is more about being a forward-looking government quarter with innovation and greenhouse gas emission reduction than the concrete choice of a building material. A Joint Committee would like to see a project leading up to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, which have high architectural quality, which facilitates innovation, which is built within an economically sound framework and which provides for a fundamental need for security. The government quarter is one of the largest public acquisitions in Norway in the years to come. We have to take advantage of that. I am sure that we have a Norwegian business that can create both innovative and competitive solutions, which will also help generate growth in the Norwegian economy. The new Government Quartet also gives us the opportunity to impose strict requirements on greenhouse gas emission reductions. The Government has already announced that strict environmental requirements will be imposed and that greenhouse gas emissions will be significantly lower than in a reference project with the same level of safety. So we are also going ahead as a leading example. Now we – a joint committee – look forward to the continuation as a result, which ensures us good and environmentally friendly solutions. We must not forget that the government quarter could be a target for terrorist attacks. We cannot compromise on security, and the solutions chosen must be knowledge-based. That is also why, as elected representatives of the people over the table, we should not regulate material choices in detail. We can establish, as we do in the setting today, that we need to have a mix of different materials, and that wood should be used where it is safe, provides environmental benefits and is competitive in terms of price and quality. At the same time, I would also like to mention that in the winner project of the architectural competition, «Adapt», an extensive use of wood has already been planned and proposed. With that, I recommend the unanimous vote by the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e292	I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur for his constructive cooperation. This also applies to the other members of the committee, where the starting points were slightly different, but where we have worked together. That's very good. It is important to stress that we do not compromise on security. I see that it has been mentioned during the committee's work and also after the release was a fact. There is no compromise on safety. It is also very clear in the comments in the case that from this point of view, there is a need for material choices to be made in the further design of a new government quarter that can meet high standards of security and terror protection. I hope that those who feel uncertain about this are no longer. This proposal for a representative, which is the starting point for this matter, and what has now taken place through the comitology process, is important for the industry in Norway and important for innovation and development in the Norwegian construction industry, where the use of wood has a long tradition. It is enough to refer to what is proposed for Decision I in the case, to contribute to the innovation and development of Norwegian suppliers in line with the objectives of the National Supplier Development Programme. This proposal is important in the field of climate and environmental development in buildings, where we now have the opportunity to take a step further and ensure that we get further speed on climate and environmental developments when new buildings are to be set up. Then we refer to Decisions II, III and IV. The last decision was one of the starting points of the entire proposal for a representative. It is that the new government quarter should be an example of good Norwegian construction and architecture, and that three should be an important element in the new government quarter. All in all, I believe that this has become a very good proposal and a good starting point for the government to continue working on when it is now to build a very important signal building for the whole of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e307	I would also like to thank the rapporteur and the committee for their good work here. It seemed that we could end up with a decision that might have set some important considerations aside. Fortunately, we have not. It has been worked very constructively to arrive at a decision that takes care of the most important concerns. Strict environmental requirements shall be imposed for a new government quarter. There have actually been leading factors in the matter, and it has been leading the government's work the whole time, but it is nice that we have re-emphasised it through the decisions we are going to make today, so there is no doubt that environmental concerns are being weighed heavily in the further work. So it's very important, as many people have said, that the safety of such a building must be ensured. We all know what could potentially happen to such exposed buildings, and then it is gratifying that an overall committee has done something that clearly takes care of those considerations in a good way. We have a lot of skilled skills in this country, and there is a lot of skill related to this project. A good job has already been done to get to the best possible project. It is then an important principle that we should not go into politics and override the work and considerations that the professionals believe are important. We're not doing that now with this decision. The considerations that should weigh more heavily shall continue to weigh more heavily and the materials that are most suitable shall be used, taking into account the environment, price and safety. That is what we are adopting today, and it is outrageous. The Progress Party thus has no difficulty in agreeing to the four-point proposals put forward unanimously by the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e316	Let me first thank the rapporteur and the other parties in the Committee for good cooperation. It is a victory for both Norwegian wood industry, Norwegian jobs and the environment that an overall increase supports the proposal that three should be an important element of the new government quarter. The construction of a new government quarter will be one of the largest individual public acquisitions over the next ten years. A building mass where wood is included as a central element is a repetition of the success stories with the construction of the new main aerodrome and of the Viking ship at Hamar. Both the Gardermoen and the Viking Ship are excellent examples of architecture where three play a leading role. The Norwegian wood industry is the world leader. A signal project such as the Government Quartet will be an exhibition window for Norwegian technology and Norwegian climate-friendly construction solutions. The draft representative points out that the public must use large investments, such as: government quarter, to build strategically important industries to equip Norway for the future and to make the Norwegian economy less oil dependent. The wood industry is one of the legs of Future Norway, but it requires investment in innovation in industry, technological development and the development of new competences. The decision we are making today follows a unanimous committee vote and is an offensive initiative in Norwegian construction, in Norwegian value creation and not least in Norwegian workplaces. There is a winner of the design and design competition for the new government quarter. Now follow the design of the development under the direction of State Building. Some might think that the decision on three as an element of development comes overtime, compared to the progress of the project. That's not right. It is in the future that the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation and the State Buildings will make the premise for the implementation of the new government quarter. Our decisions today give clear signals that the Department and State Building must follow up. I am therefore pleased that the Council of State, in its letter to the Committee during the Committee's proceedings, has expressed a positive attitude towards the use of three in the new government quarter. I am also pleased that the Stortinget is concrete and shows the willingness to give clear messages to the department. It is now possible to give the premises that the Department, State Buildings and other participants in the development must follow up. Five requirements of the Committee establishment, including inter alia: around safety, Stortinget assumes that one has a marshalling earth to make the new government quarter a signalling project in terms of both construction, safety and the environment. A government quarter of three meets key requirements for the development of environmental organisations. I have noticed their enthusiasm through hearings and opinions in committee hearings. In the Committee's position, we require inter alia: particular emphasis shall be placed on the climate and environmental footprint of the materials used in the construction of the government quarter. This applies both in raw material withdrawals, in production, in transport and in the construction phase. I'm sure we're going to get a government quarter that we can be proud of in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e335	Unfortunately, we have to build a new government quarter. The reason why we do that, everyone knows, and then it's a little sad that someone spreads notions that someone doesn't care about the security of the new government quarter. There has never been a proposal to ignore security. However, proposals have been made both now and in the previous period from SV and myself that we need to look at the developmental possibilities for using wood in a much more powerful and targeted way than the government we now have. I am pleased that we now have a unanimous committee, and that this is a marshy land for the government to use this great project as a development opportunity also for the Norwegian wood industry. The previous speeches were on the Gardermoen, the Olympics on the Lillehammer and the Viking ship. There are also three bridges. I was also there at the time and was told that it was dangerous to build, because it was flammable. Then tests later showed that it was not true. Here there are developments for some of the things that can show that we are in the third country of Norway, when we are now building a large and fine signal building. Now I hope the government takes the initiative and becomes a little bit more enthusiastic about this than it's been to now. The reason why the proposal comes up is that we have not felt there has been any particular pressure from there when, among other things. I have asked several times about this, or as the centre party and SV had suggested the same thing in the previous period. It is important that this building also meets high environmental and climate requirements. It must be a leading example, as the rapporteur said, in this area. I'm very glad she said that, because it's important. I would therefore like to say in particular that point 4 is particularly important – where clear targets for emissions are to be set and proposals are to be made for the numbering of greenhouse gas reduction targets for the project. It is important, because state buildings and many of the guidelines underlying such constructions are a little too loose in the fish. It is like ‘a little better than some reference points’, ‘as best as possible’ and some other formulations that do not provide a clear numerical fixation. The fact that we are now getting a demand for numerical fixing and clear proposals for it makes it possible to measure this project, and I hope the government will now implement it in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e348	Sometimes it is annoying that someone is out stealing your clothes while you are out bathing. Last summer, I was attacked by the investor Arthur Buchardt at Larvik Square – he is behind the listing of Norway's highest wooden house, in Brumunddal. His argument for putting this in three was sustainability. It is a matter of ore in the ordinary buildings listed – among other things. Here in the capital – extracted in Kiruna, transported half the earth to China, processed there and transported half the earth to be used in Oslo. He thought he was pretty stupid. I could agree with that. He promised to give me and Left his support if I would be so tough to propose such a government building. That's what I was going to do, but then I'm going to register that he might have talked to other parties, which actually came into my mind. I have now been to Brumunddal and looked at the entry of the high house there. I record that the latter speaker did not mention Brumunddal. I guess it'll be noticed in Hedmark, because it's a great building. I am therefore pleased that there is a unanimous committee in favour of this proposal. I would therefore like to take this opportunity now to give my and Left's wholehearted support to the proposal, unless otherwise to make the party election more complicated for that investor.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e357	Like all the other speakers today, I am also pleased that there is an overall committee which has found such offensive wording as it is here. It ensures that the construction of the government quarter becomes a signal project for environmentally friendly construction and a clean-up for the use of wood also in larger buildings. That is also why my own party leader chose to promote this proposal together with several other parties. Security has been a string here. Of course, no one is willing to go on chords with security. It may have given you the impression that you have seen some TV entries last week, but I want to take the opportunity to cancel it most strongly. It's not like that. We don't gamble with security, it has to be clear. When it turned out that we had to build a new government quarter, it is quite natural that we make sure that it becomes a signal building and a driving force to build optimally climate friendly. The fact that the Storting has engaged in this way and that we have a cross-political decision strengthens this signal considerably. Yes, it's actually more than a signal – it's a marshall that's all behind it. We have great expectations that this will be a great project that can house the executive in a good way. Let me end by saying that the policy created within the walls of the new government quarter, of course, is expected to be even more forward-looking than built itself, but we are going to come back to that on many occasions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e368	The government quarter is a major and important project for Norway and for Oslo City. It's also a complicated project, with a lot of stakeholders and a lot of consideration. A comprehensive climate budget shall be created for the government quarter – from materials to construction, transport and energy use when built. GHG emissions shall be as low as possible throughout the life cycle of the project. State buildings produce the first edition of the greenhouse gas accounts in the context of the regulatory work and it shows that a significant reduction is possible. Continuous assessments are made of the environmental measures ensuring that the environmental solutions chosen provide a socially viable, cost-effective and sustainable use of resources. In the reconstruction of the government quarter following the explosion on 22 July 2011, security is a key consideration. Material choices must be seen in the context of the safety assessments. As we have been surveyed through a research and development project in the direction of State Building, and as emerged from the consultation, safety requirements make it difficult to use wood in supporting structures and façades in a new government quarter, but the implemented architectural competition shows that three can be prominent in the new quarter, and that Norwegian architecture and building practices are well maintained. The winner’s proposal for Adapt has extensive use of wood materials internally, including: in receptions and corridors, such as in the so-called interaction section, extending through all the buildings. The construction of the new government quarter could mark Norway as an environmentally and climate conscious nation. Project new government quarter could also be a driver of innovation and development in Norwegian business. The environmental programme, which is part of the regulatory plan for the new government quarter, has ambitious objectives. Construction and outdoor areas shall have high environmental standards, and environmentally sound and sustainable solutions shall be chosen, including materials that contribute to reducing expenditure on management, operation, maintenance and development. Thus, the life-cycle perspective is taken into account. State-building is one of the partners in the National Supply Development Programme. In the context of the work on the new government quarter, State Building will seek to develop and find good solutions in cooperation with suppliers in several areas, including: material use. For example, state buildings have at the end of May, a separate seminar with the supplier market to examine the scope for different material types. This could be the start of innovative partnerships with the supplier market in order to arrive at new, innovative material solutions that best address the needs of the project, while at the same time developing the supply market. I have great faith that Norwegian business is able to deliver competitive and innovative solutions, for the benefit of an important national symbol and for the benefit of the development of Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e383	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e389	I am pleased that the Council of State determines that security is essential in the government quarter, that it is essential, and that the use of three does not necessarily prevent that security from being ensured. I am glad that the Council of State put it quite firmly – at least I perceived the Council of State as such. So to the proposals for decisions. The proposals for Decisions V and I – and to the extent that the others are also, but clearly in V and I at least – we will be able to give the construction industry in Norway a fairly large boost in driving innovation, creating new business development, creating new jobs. My question is, how will the Council of State follow this up with the construction industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e396	That question really belongs to the Minister of Industry. But I know the Minister of Industry's job quite well, and we've had a commitment for years to develop both good programmes in Innovation Norway and projects aimed at the wood industry. We have been committed to forest roads, and we have opened the mandate to Investinor, so that they can now allocate funds to mature projects in the wood industry. This gives you another opportunity to develop this industry further. It's amazing that we have a fantastic access to green gold, as we call it, but we can't get enough value creation and employment out of it. There are a number of options and programmes that the wood industry can and should take advantage of, and this project will be incorporated into the range.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e401	I would like to thank the Council of State for a very positive contribution. It is a unanimous committee, as she had before, that is behind the five concrete proposals to ensure a new government quarter where three are an important element. In its opinion, the Council of State said to the Committee that it was too early to conclude. Now, however, the Storting chooses to say that you should do it. How will the Council of State ensure that State buildings and others involved in the design of a new government quarter are obliged to follow up these decisions?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e410	My predecessor sent an answer to the Stortinget in November 2016, explaining how he followed up State Building in looking at different wood materials for use in this quarter. So this has actually been on the agenda also for the previous municipal minister, and that will of course be part of my follow-up to State Building through the ownership dialogue with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e415	I heard the Council's response. It was an exposure to the industrial development potential that lies in this building and, of course, in much of the state's business where it was built. It's positive. We haven't experienced the same enthusiasm from state councils before. That's why the proposal is being promoted, and it's now a unanimous increase that says to the government that this is important for the Storting, just to be able to drive forward the kind of nutritional development that we're pointing at here. It is therefore interesting to hear what initiatives the Council of State will take in addition to saying that what you have already decided to do. In fact, the Stortinget is now moving forward at the level of ambition in terms of both wood and climate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e420	I can confirm that I have a great commitment to create more jobs in the private sector, and I think Norway has some advantage. We're going to build on those advantages. In the case of forests and wood, we have an absolute advantage. Then it's about making business competitive, so that you actually get into pretty tough international competition. With such a large project in Norway, where businesses are invited to be innovative, to come up with new and better solutions – and in terms of the environment, in many areas of world-leading industry – we clearly have all the opportunities to see our business come to grips with this competition. Then it's about having framework conditions. Businesses are engaged in taxes and taxes, of transport, of good programmes within the Research Council and Innovation Norway, which enable them to contribute to the development of new and better technologies, greater sustainability and new innovative solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e425	This is precisely why in the last period SV took the initiative in this case – based on what for example. Innovation Norway writes in its plans, where the government would not agree that this could be such a development project. So there has been a need to be a driver here, and there is also a need to be a driver in terms of bringing down greenhouse gas emissions throughout the entire phase. There is now the matter of measuring this against a reference project, and then proposals are to be made for the numbering of greenhouse gas reduction targets for the project. That's a very important point, because it's not about getting to grips with that development, because Norwegian industry and construction industry are also going to be the best in the competition if they're the best in the climate. Don't the Council of State agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e430	I am absolutely convinced that when the big economies of the world take a green grip – and they will – we will be able to cope with our solutions. It will simply be a good store for Norway. That is why this government, more than anyone had before, has focused on environmental programmes in Innovation Norway, on programmes both in the Research Council and in Innovation Norway, which means that all industries have a historically high supply of assistance and support to develop new and sustainable solutions. Of course, we just have to keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e435	In the last growing-up period, it was not possible to get a majority for such a proposal that we get a majority in favour of today, and it is a great pleasure to the centre party that we get a majority for it. Then I can give the council a chance. What are the major benefits of three becoming an important element – that we should bet on three in the new government quarter?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e440	I think I need to make it clear that according to the documents I have, my predecessor gave information as early as November 2016 about what work he did to Statsbyg. Throughout this process, state buildings have been given the task of looking into the use of wood materials. It is quite natural when we live in a country that has so much access to just wood materials. We will now, in the continuation, as I have explained, make sure that that part of the mission is well done by State Building.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e445	Replication cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e453	It is a major win for Norwegian three industries that a total collapse in this ageing period joins the construction of three as an important element in the construction of a new government quarter. In the previous magnification it was not possible. Now there's a total mass that does it. Many representatives have worked a long time to get this done. As a previous speaker has said, it was on a trip to Mjøstårnet that the representative Hareide and the representative Vedum, as I can tell myself as, explained that we had to have such a debate in Stortinget. We got Jonas Gahr Støre and Kari Elisabeth Kaski to promote this as a majority proposal. It was a very important breakthrough. It is a great pleasure that the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have joined the majority of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the SV and the Christian People's Party through the committee procedure. What is so hugely important for the Norwegian society in the future – when we're spending a lot of public money, like on a government quarter, 14-16 billion. kr – we use such projects to build Norwegian industry and Norwegian jobs. It's one of the main arguments that you want to use three in the government quarter. The second is that wood is a climatically very beneficial material. So when we can both create jobs, value creation and industry and at the same time get climate-friendly solutions, it's a very good solution for the Norwegian community. We already have success stories. The Viking ship is such a success story. A demand was made, a goal was set, and industry was built. Gardermoen is a success story. A claim was made and a goal was set to promote Norwegian construction practices, and Norwegian industry was built. That is how we in Stortinget must think much more forward, even in connection with large-scale transport projects. Building the new Dairy Bridge in wood is another such project. The previous government put down $13 million. kr for a research and development project, which has now made it apparent that it is possible to build the world's longest wooden bridge over Mjøsa instead of using steel and concrete. I hope that this round can constitute a roadblock in Stortinget, that we will use a public project to build more than the building itself, but also to build industry and build industrial workplaces, and that Monica Mæland, as the Council of State, now takes the governance signals from Stortinget and the clear decisions in this matter in the utmost seriousness. Because there is no doubt that there has been a long struggle and a maturation process. Now we have to use research and development funds for the Norwegian wood industry, which means that they are in the first line to deliver new products. This is the first step. The next step is even more investment in the wood industry in Norway, which makes them the best supplier, so that we can create new jobs, get new value creation and use Norwegian timber.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e464	I would like to make some comments on the economic aspects of this matter. There is no doubt that the forest is a large resource for Norway, but one needs different strategies to take out the potential, the value and create the possible jobs. Something is about securing forest planting and facilitating efficient and good logging. Another element is transport. A third element is research and development of new technologies, new products from wood. But a very important area is also to demand three in public procurement. Public procurement laws allow more emphasis to be placed on the environment, life-cycle costs, life-cycle emissions. It gives the tree an advantage. For the Center Party's part, this is about us not only using three, but also facilitating Norwegian suppliers. When a new technology is required, Norwegian jobs and Norwegian suppliers will be raised. I have read the settings, and I have heard the debate today. I'm recording that it's not quite the commitment that I should want to make to the Right and the Advance Party. The exposure to the plural in Stortinget is large, but I feel that a person is trying to pull this down a little. However, there must be a clear expectation that today’s decision actually makes a difference – before and after that decision has been taken. It is also important to remember that the Roman numeral V in the setting is quite similar to point 3 of the proposal. It was this a desire to be admitted, and that's what the Biggest decides. It's supposed to be a difference. There shall be a difference between the construction appearance and that of the Norwegian industry. It's not like we're just working to get three in the new government quarter. Of course, we want it to be Norwegian three. There should be a product developed by the Norwegian industry, and there should be values and jobs created in Norway. This is a happy day, and it is a very important decision that the Storting should make today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e479	It was the representative of Engen-Helgheim who made me take the floor, because I realized that he said we were making decisions that would not ensure the security of the government quarter. So it's as wrong as it is going to be. It must be emphasised that there has never been a proposal – at least not by the Workers' Party – to have a weakened government quarter security, on the contrary, this is something we have been very concerned about. It is therefore incomprehensible that the representative, Engen-Helgheim, is trying to give the impression that something else has been meant to be. It is unnecessary to do so, and it is a complete misinterpretation. One might wonder where he got it from. Therefore, such a statement must be met. It is enough to refer to the comments of an overall committee. On page 3 of the document under consideration, safety is mentioned no less than three times in three different sections. It is a shame that the representative, Engen-Helgheim, has not got along with the fact that security has been so concerned about the government quarter – it has a story behind it, as mentioned earlier. As I said, the Council of State itself states that the proposal will not endanger safety. It's very good that the Council of State is very clear about that, I appreciate it very much. That's good, and that's right. It says the matter – nothing else.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e490	This case is not new. I understand that the representative Grimstad, who is new at Stortinget, has not found out that this matter was up in the previous period as well – in several rounds. I guess I even suggested this before Arthur Buchardt – but now leave it. I think it is sad that this is what the Left places on in this case, because I wanted the Left as a driver – in government now – in order to implement this in the best possible way, both because we need to use more wood, in government buildings and in many other public buildings, and because the government and the public must go ahead in using it, so that we can develop it much more, because there are great opportunities there. The second is to set clear enough climate targets for the projects for which the state owns and builders, and for which State Building has. The climate and environmental objectives of state-building are far too vague. It is important that the objectives are set early in the process – that there are opportunities to go into it, so that we can see that they actually contribute to development in these areas – and do not do as the government has unfortunately done with the entire project in the government quarter: put some premises in advance that allow a few limitations on urban planning, the working environment and perhaps also on technical solutions, because it is decided that everything should be printed on an area that is not suitable for it and that is to house everything. It makes it extra important that we have a party in the government that can be involved and make sure that this is actually being followed up. I, like the representatives of the Centre Party and the Workers' Party, miss this enthusiasm from the government, both for the development of industrial policy in this area and for Norway to go ahead and develop both the construction, material selection, the construction process and the whole life phase, and be the most important in terms of greenhouse gas reduction and the least possible negative environmental impact. Here we have a big project where it's possible. The government's framework has made it harder, but now at least the Storting has said that it will happen, and I'm waiting to see the goals being set, it's important that they are strict.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e501	We are dealing with a slightly different attitude today than the representative proposal that was originally promoted from the opposition. But I'm glad we got together and found better solutions than what was originally on the table, to get what's a big public building project, which we're going to follow for years to come. So we're not in favour of having a main element of three in the government quarter – which it could originally work like, and at least it was communicated from the opposition that it should be. Rather, we leave it up to good professionals to assess where three can be used, where it is safe, environmentally suitable and competitive at price. But that's not so much new either, because it was already interested in using wood. If you read the answer from the Council of State to the Committee, it is clearly a positive response to the possibility of using three in the new government quarter. Nor is it new that there is a separate point in the Jeloya declaration that three should be developed as building materials and develop the timber industry in the coming years. This government has been committed to facilitating innovation and development in all parts of the economy. It's because we understand that more new jobs need to be created that contribute to the state budget rather than living off the state budget, whether we're going to survive and manage to distribute funds in the years to come. That's why it's not new that we, as a major player, that's public, use large public acquisitions to contribute to innovation and growth in the private sector. I believe that, of course, the government and the Stortinget will help when a developer of such a large project as the government quarter is. That is why I am not surprised that the government is promoting an industry policy as offensive as it is today. One can almost begin to wonder if all the representatives are sitting and listening to the same debate when questions about whether government is not forward-looking enough to create new business. On the contrary, I believe that the exchange of replies and the replies of the Council of State showed this. Now I look forward to a new government quarter, which has high architectural quality and contributes to growth and innovation. I also look forward to good professionals having the opportunity to assess how much wood can be used and where it can be used in a good way. It also creates growth and innovation in Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e514	In fact, you can wonder whether you have heard the same debate here that the previous speaker was talking about. There have been some attempts to make representations to the Committee – and this applies to everyone in the Committee – for constructive and good work that has led to a decision that does not put safety aside. That's what's been stressed, and that's what you think, and it's good that we now get a decision that doesn't place any other emphasis on security, which you could get if it hadn't been for the good work that the committee has done together. My second point is that there is really nothing new that we are adopting today – we must be so honest that we are saying. This has been the basis for the government's work all the time, the strong concern for the environment, and business development, architecture and security have been very important, and that is what we are deciding today is still important. That's why it's a very sensible decision that's being made today, where we also underline what's been important all the way. The importance of three in the government quarter has already been emphasised through the winner’s proposal, Adapt – that there should be a lot of use of three where it makes sense. So there's nothing new at that point either, you continue the government's work. That is why I think it is good that the Committee has made it clear that the government's work should continue as planned.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e521	Let me first underline, before anyone might be confused: the Committee therefore has five unanimous proposals for decisions. There is a five-point decision, one of which concerns a small safety addendum, because there has never been any discussion about the safety of the new government quarter. It has been essential for all the parties in this Chamber, and something else is – with respect to reporting – just to derail the debate. No one has wanted to go on chords with certainty, and you won't. In any case, the Committee did not consider that the original proposals could be on a piece of legislation with certainty, but it has therefore been added a small joint which meant that it was slightly tightened up. In addition to this, the Committee has gone beyond the original proposal, including: in relation to the environment. It is the good work that has been done in the Committee and the dialogue with the departments that has led to the finding that it would have been sensible to ask for numerical targets for greenhouse gas emissions, precisely because it is necessary to build on this in order to provide innovation in the industry and, to some extent, to ensure other things as well. Then it has been important for the Center Party that once we have now discussed the law on public acquisitions in recent weeks in other contexts than here, there is at least here an opportunity, with today's law as it stands, to actually contribute to innovative acquisitions. It's important when we spend billions of dollars, now and forward, building Norway. Then you should use that money to build Norwegian interests. One of the Norwegian interests is the Norwegian industry and employment. Let me conclude by saying that I think we should all congratulate ourselves on having had a good job of putting together decisions and actions that hopefully will create new enthusiasm in the Norwegian forest and wood industry, which ensures innovation in the Norwegian construction industry, which will provide Norwegian jobs, and which is also a victory for climate and the environment. The fact that this room today stands up for Norwegian interests while taking care of the environment, safety and sustainable development – yes, it should have been a day of joy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e532	Piet Hein once said: ‘The one who only jokes about jokes, and serious only, he and she have actually caught both bad parts.’;» When I took the floor, it was actually to give a careful homage to the opposition for having come to the left in advance regarding this proposal. Now the left is not represented in the municipal committee, so we didn't propose this there. But let there be no doubt that the climate impact, to use the expression that the Left will put on this government, is going to last a long time – but not primarily in the municipal committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e552	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e568	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a change of line with up to five lines of response following contributions from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e577	Housing, together with work, education and health, is the four pillars of the welfare state. With a job to go to, a salary to live off and a place to live, adult life can begin. Most people live in owner-occupied dwellings, and Norway has one of the world's best housing standards. A place to live at an affordable price is too many crucial to be able to live a life of independence and good living. Yes, even so, more young people today own their own home than before. It's a wild development and something we have to cheer up. So what's the problem? Well, the housing costs too much, and there are too few homes built in the press areas. Young people today have to go out with much more of their own income to buy their first dwelling than the generations before had to go out with. It must be an important political task to facilitate the construction of adequate housing. It cannot be that a newly-trained teacher or nurse should not be able to live in a house on the east side of the city. We need to build dwellings and plan future growth so that even young first-time buyers can establish themselves at a reasonable distance from their jobs and without any future income being tied up to the repayment of loans raised at an early age. Housing policy is about where we build homes, and how we do it. It's about both quality and location. Urbanisation is one of the major international trends. The world over, people move into cities to live and work. The most environmentally friendly thing we can do is live in town. Cities are involved in reducing national greenhouse gas emissions. We have to build smart cities. We must continue along the collective nodes and have an area and transport development where buses and trams often go enough, so that we can travel environmentally friendly and efficient to the job and home again. As I mentioned earlier in the article, there are several young people who now own the owner-occupiers than before. Owning a home is a goal of housing policy, and therefore it is that several young people own a home, which we are all pleased with. But it's young people who are struggling to get into the housing market, even though they have good income opportunities in the future. We are still reading examples in the paper, most recently in the Evening Post last week, about young people who are not getting a home. It may not be that we do not have arrangements for those who save each month, but do not manage to save enough. For every year they save money, they are further away from the goal of owning their own housing. They're sitting in a rowboat and trying to take back a cabin cruiser. I can't. When the market is unable to offer these young people who have done everything right, a loan, then we will use the policy to correct the error. It's just this group, young first-time buyers, we want to help with our proposal to expand the framework of the Husbank's start-up loan. Renting instead of owning is one of the main reasons why someone gets hung behind, and that the differences between people are increasing. Those who can buy are slowly but surely increasing their own values, while the tenant is still transferring money to others. With this, I recommend the Committee's proposal for a decision in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e594	I'm glad that most of us manage to get a good home without the help of the public. The aim must be to minimise the need for public assistance in order to obtain a good housing. At the same time, we have to admit that not everyone gets into the ordinary housing market. Therefore, it has been a goal for the government to strengthen housing social work. But unlike the Workers' Party, the government has chosen to give priority to those groups that need it the most. That is why we have focused on important schemes such as: the housing allowance, by means of, inter alia: directed at families with children. That is why we have invested in rental-to-own projects, so that more people who are unable to buy a dwelling themselves can get into the housing market and finally experience the self-respect and predictability of owning their home. That is why we have also targeted the start-up loan scheme in the House Bank, so that almost 90 pst. by those who receive a start-up loan, it will complete the financing of their home. It means something to the long-term poor families of children, for they are permanently disabled and for those who would never have been able to enter the housing market without help. The question we're really going to deal with here today is, what are we going to do with young people who have a solid income but who are struggling to get enough equity? Both the Right and the Opposition see that we should help them in, but where the opposition suggests that strong-resourced young people should enter into a housing social action and compete with permanent disability, the Right believes that it is far more sensible to look at how banks can use their senses to give more flexibility to this group. We do that because we've tried the opposition's policy before. The result was that there were different lending practices in the municipalities. Several people who could have obtained a loan from a private bank received a loan through the House Bank. And, most importantly, those who actually needed the most start-up loans did not get it because they had spent the money on resource-intensive young people. The Norwegian housing market is largely functioning very well. That's 80 pst. by us who live in a dwelling owned by the household itself. It is a record number of young people who today own their own home. If we look at them in the 25-30 age group, it's over 40 pst. owning its own dwelling. It hasn't come of itself. Norwegian self-ownership democracy is the result of a wild policy. I think there is a broad consensus that we should work to keep our self-loyal democracy in the future as well. But I also think there are different solutions to how we're going to do it. For the Right, the most important thing is to make sure that we make it easier, faster and cheaper to build new homes. After many years with too low starting figures under the red-green government, the arrows have turned around after the Right came to the government offices. In fact, this government has seen the highest figures for the start-up of new dwellings since the 1980s. We have simplified the legislation, so that it is more than 100 000 kroner cheaper to build apartments in this country. These are measures that make it easier for young people to enter the housing market. Now we're going to continue to build more, simplify more and digitize the legislation to keep the building pace up to the level that has been under this government, and bring down the construction costs. It is these measures that we need if young people are to get into the housing market. These are the same measures to which the opposition has been skeptical. What we don't need is to use a housing social measure to let resource-intensive young people sneak in front of those who need it the most. It is an honest priority from the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party that they will rather give priority to resource-intensive youth in front of those who need it the most, but I live very well with the fact that the Right does not agree with that priority and instead sets those who need it the most, first.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e609	The start-up loan scheme is a good arrangement for those who need it. It is intended to help disadvantaged people enter the housing market, mainly those with special challenges. Initial loans shall be complementary to the ordinary market, not to a competitor. Of course, it would have been nice if we could only expand this arrangement, so that everyone could get a loan this way, but especially smart it wouldn't have been. There are good reasons why there are today guidelines for borrowing. Claims on ability to pay and equity should prevent lending overcapacity – with all the negative consequences it has for both borrowers and the housing market. The proposal from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV will undermine the Housing Loan Regulation and will be open to provide loans to people who are not disadvantaged but still have not been able to save enough equity. It's really quite remarkable that these parties are promoting such a proposal. Extending the scheme to young first-time start-ups will ensure that the vast majority of young people will be covered by the scheme. And as it's been mentioned here, it's meant to be a housing social system. Thus, there will be a system that most people will be able to use and no longer be a system for disadvantaged people. Not only would it undermine the housing loan regulation, but it would also be contrary to EEA law, which says that public authorities should not enter well-functioning credit markets and take market shares from private operators. It may seem that the proposers have blocked the instruments in this case. If they believe that the housing loan regulation is too strict and holds too many young people outside the housing market, the housing loan regulation they should consider is not the start-up loan scheme. But when that is said, I just want to end by saying that there is nothing today that indicates that it is more difficult now than before for young people to enter the housing market. I think this proposal should be voted down, because it will have more negative consequences than positive, and it will actually undermine a good arrangement for those who really need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e622	The situation of young people in the housing market is of concern. Youth in the start-up phase, often with good wages but without savings, is excluded from the housing market even if they could have served what they need to borrow to get started. The rental market is the possibility they are left with. The problem is that they end up renting so high that it limits the possibility of saving. When buying an owner-occupied dwelling, they could have operated the mortgage for the same sum as they pay in rent. The centre party says in its programme that the situation of young people entering the housing market has become so difficult that there is a need for a housing social boost that helps to secure all the right to owner-occupied housing. The centre party wants to use the House Bank more actively to get to this. The proposers request an amendment to the start-up loan regulation for the Husbank. They want applicants who are young and initial start-ups with a ability to pay, but without saving equity, to be part of the group that can receive start-up loans. The central party supports the proposal to amend the start-up loan regulation so that young people and first-time start-ups can once again become part of the target group, and we believe that this is necessary to facilitate access to the housing market for young people with a ability to pay but without equity or rich parents. Governments strongly oppose the use of the start-up loan regulation as an instrument to facilitate young people’s access to the housing market and indicate that young people can save their equity through the BSU. She also points out that since starting loans are not subject to the Housing Loan Regulation, the amendment could undermine the purpose of this regulation. I see that there can be raised counter-conceptions against opening up again. Governments point out that municipalities responsible for the provision of the start-up loan often grant loans from young people who could have managed regular loans in private banks. This should not replace an ordinary bank loan, but it must be a great deal of local freedom. For example, we have a lot of municipalities where construction costs exceed the market value, and then it must be possible for municipalities to go into the initial loan so that they can get a regular bank loan on the rest. The Council of State also indicates that in 2004 it was only 34 pst. by young people who owned their own housing, but that in 2015 there was 42 pst. But at the same time, we see that the proportion goes down among low pay. Yes, the economy has improved for most of us over the years. Many parents are in a situation that gives them the opportunity to help their children enter the housing market, but this applies far from everyone. If we are to assist those who do not have rich parents to enter the housing market, that is exactly what this scheme should be intended for. The truth is that the government has weakened the House Bank as a housing social tool since they took over in 2013. The frame has been reduced from 25 million. NOK 17 million. kr in the 2018 budget. The centre party has argued against this deterioration every year and has set up an increased framework in its alternative budgets. The Central Party also believes that Housing savings for young people, BSU, are a positive offer, but it is wrong when the Council of State makes this the solution for all young people looking for housing. For most people it will take a long time to build up equity through saving, especially when it comes to covering high rents by renting a dwelling. There was broad support in the committee hearing to amend the start-up loan regulation of the Husbank so that young people seeking housing could be included in the scheme. The majority of the Committee supports the proposal, but since this majority does not coincide with the majority of the population, it is uncertain whether the proposal will receive the necessary support at the present time. I would particularly encourage the Christian People's Party to evaluate its vote. The start-up loan scheme will help young people to get owner-occupied housing, so that they can save by owning and not need to use their money to rent. I see it as important that an extended start-up loan scheme does not mean that disadvantaged people who can now obtain start-up loans must give way to young people looking for housing. Therefore, I am pleased that the proposal being promoted requires that the start-up loan scheme be divided into two schemes: one for today's target group and one for young first-time start-ups. So it's not like the representatives of the government parties here today claim that such a system could go beyond the long-term difficulties. This will be a separate system of fresh funds in a separate pot, which will allow young first-time non-rich parents or equity to enter the housing market. Finally, I would like to raise the proposal of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e645	The representative, Heidi Greni, then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e650	Owning your own home and paying down on it is the most reasonable saving anyone can do. But if you're in the situation that you have to rent, you're sitting and maybe paying even more than the cost would be on the loan you didn't get, and you're left with less money than before. While the owner receives tax deductions – and property taxes from this government – those who do not own a dwelling have been cut off from the housing support, cut into the housing social work and cut into the house banking frameworks. So it is simply not true, what is said by the representative of the Right that what is being proposed today will go beyond the disadvantaged – and that the social housing work is strengthened. It's not, it's just reading the numbers, for example. for the housing aid. Tens of thousands have lost it. We spend as much – or less – housing support today as we did in 2009, and I think most of us know that housing expenditure has increased. In addition, the income of the disadvantaged has decreased. No one should own anyone else's home, said Trygve Bratteli once. That's what I'm feeling, because it's about having power over your own life. But if you have to rent a dwelling and pay everything you earn in rent, so you don't get saved – so if you've arranged your finances, you've got education, you have a job, you shouldn't get a starter loan. It is then possible to change the housing loan regulations – it is up to the government to do so, but it has not done so. That's why we're proposing a change in the start-up loan regulation to what it was before, and we're proposing to split it into two, so that it doesn't go beyond or in any way compete with money for the disadvantaged, as several government representatives say. It's simply also false. It says in the vote, and you can go back to the budgets, where the parties behind the vote have promoted increases in the House Bank to cover this – and we will continue to do so. So there's no one else but the government who cuts for the disadvantaged, while SV increases for the disadvantaged, through the Husbank, and now we want to expand the start-up loan scheme. There are those who are not disadvantaged in the sense that they are unable to operate a loan, but who do not have parents, for example, as many of us are, who are able to help their children with equity and save for them. On the contrary, many people do not have help from their parents. If you have it, you can, for example, – I know many – live for free while studying in an apartment that the parents have purchased, and then you can buy it from their parents. Then you get a lot to give. But there are also those who are not in such a situation, but who can manage well on their wages and pay off their loan, because they can afford it if they don't waste all their money paying rent. So the housing market is a difference machine. It's very rewarding for the one who's come in, and very unprofitable for the one who has to spend the entire salary on paying rent to someone who has, and who's still on the good side of all the taxes and the interest deduction. There is a need to make very many changes in the housing market, but this is a slight change, and so was the start-up loan scheme before. In four years, the scheme for young people has been halved through the House Bank, and I am not able to understand what is wrong that is going to happen if any of these young people, who can afford to pay the loan, get it so that they can start paying off on their own home. This is not money that the government is throwing away. This is money that the state is going to get paid back again through interest and instalments that these people can pay. So I don't understand – someone from the government parties has to go up and explain to me why they think it makes sense that these young people are going to throw away their money to rent instead of saving for their own housing by owning, when they can. It is in the government’s own strategy that the desire to own housing lies deep in the Norwegian people’s soul – it is about identity, mental and economic security. Nothing less. Greetings to governments.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e663	I think everyone agrees that it is important to make it the best possible possible for young people to enter the housing market, and that there is a clear advantage that it should happen relatively early in adult life. The intention of the proposal that we are discussing here today is therefore not difficult to share. But it is important, as the government has stated, that the start-up loan scheme is not used up by people who actually have the opportunity to finance their own housing with ordinary loans. Since the threshold for entering the housing market a few years ago was significantly higher through increased self-capitalisation requirements, it created problems for a large group of young people who actually had the prospect of serving a loan but who lacked equity. The Government shall soon determine the further fate of the Housing Loan Regulation. That is where we address this issue that we are discussing today. We are pleased to have the government parties agree that consideration should be given to how the flexibility of banks can more effectively cater for young and initial start-ups who have good income prospects but who do not comply with the applicable rules of the Housing Loan Regulation. Such a common note obliges the government, and we expect young people who can serve loans but who do not have equity or rich parents to have access to housing loans. It has long been central to the Christian People's Party to solve this. We are happy that this will be resolved in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e670	A good dwelling is an important foundation for all of us. It creates a secure framework for our lives and makes it easier to participate in employment and make use of welfare services such as health care and education. In Norway, the ownership line is strong. Over 80 pst. lives in a dwelling they own, and most live well. The government wants to make it possible for as many people as possible to own their own housing. We've also expressed that in the Jeløya platform. Help to own is an important objective of the government’s housing social work. For many disadvantaged people in the housing market, the solution to their life situation may be to move from a lease to a owned dwelling. Start-up loans, often in combination with start-up grants and housing support, promote the ownership line. These instruments contribute greatly to the ability of disadvantaged people to own housing. Start-up loans are an important social housing tool used extensively by municipalities. In 2017, the municipalities provided start-up loans for almost 8.5 billion. kr. It was the highest amount ever paid, and for the first time, the starting loan constituted the largest proportion of the HBS loan arrangements. 6,905 households received start-up loans in 2017, and over 50 pst. Of these, families with children. At the same time, the Husbank must be a complement to the ordinary credit market, not a competitor. The members of the Committee of the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre therefore propose to split the start-up loan scheme into two schemes: one for the current target group and a new scheme for young first-time start-ups. Here it is important to remember that the housing loan regulation was tightened up in 2017. We did that to dampen the debt growth in Norwegian households. With this proposal for a new start-up loan scheme, the majority will open up the possibility of starting loans to persons who do not receive loans in private banks because of the tightening up of the mortgage regulation. This will undermine the functioning of the start-up loan under the Housing Loan Regulation. The EEA State Aid Code also states that public authorities should not enter into a well-functioning credit market and take market shares from private operators. So it's about ensuring that the credit market works well. This means that the House Bank should not grant loans to, for example: a newly educated engineering student who can obtain loans from private banks after saving sufficient equity. On the government side, we are committed to helping young people enter the housing market. Since 2013, the Youth Housing Saving Scheme (BSU) has been strengthened twice. In 2013, the total savings in BSU was NOK 150 000, today this amount is NOK 300000. Let me also draw attention to the fact that many young people own their home, and that the proportion has increased in recent years. Number from SSB shows that in 2015 owned 42 pst. by persons aged 25 to 30 years of age owning their own dwellings. In 2004, this proportion was 34 pst. The members of the Committee of the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre also ask the Government in the context of the 2019 State Budget to make proposals to extend the framework for the Husbank so that more people can obtain start-up loans. Here it is worth noting that start-up loans are prioritised within the mortgage lending framework of the House Bank. Today, therefore, municipalities will be allocated what they want to raise their initial loans.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e705	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e710	So the government believes that we don't need the start-up scheme so that more kids can own their own home. We know that it's the young people with the highest income who save the most in the BSU systems. We know that it is easiest for young people who have grown up in cities with parents and grandparents living in the same city to settle in the press areas. We know that many parents help young people get into the housing market and therefore are involved in driving up the prices. We know that Oslo has as many as three out of ten owner-occupiers who have never lived in the dwellings they own. Why is it so difficult for the government to say yes to the extension of the start-up loan scheme, so that young people who do not have such high income can spend enough money in the BSU, or have parents who can help, can buy an own home?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e717	I have trouble understanding this zeal to help people who don't need help, help people who are not disadvantaged. For me, the House Bank is a housing social tool. We're going to help those who in longer periods of life don't get access to credit in the ordinary credit market. People who are in an entirely temporary phase of life, for example. because they are new engineers or lawyers or doctors, they do not need a loan through the House Bank. I also understand that what you really think is the problem is the housing loan regulation. It was tightened up as a result of both the degree of indebtedness and the rise in housing prices, and the dramatic rise in housing prices, especially in cities, mainly in relation to initial start-ups. So then it's really the equity situation we're discussing, not the individual's ability to borrow in the ordinary credit market.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e724	The working party is concerned that we should have a functioning private banking system. That's one of the reasons we've intervened with public funds and saved the banking system from going over the end several times when they've taken too much risk. Now there are young people who have done everything right in life – take education, get a job and save money – but still are unable to buy housing. For every year they save money, they're further away from the goal of owning themselves. They're sitting in rowing boats trying to take back a cabin cruiser. I can't. When the market is unable to offer these young people who have done everything right, a loan, then we will use policies to correct the error. Why does the Council not see that extending the start-up facility of the Husbank is a complement to, and not a competitor to, the banks?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e735	I believe that this will erode the whole point of tightening up the mortgage policy. People who are in a difficult economic situation will get a start-up loan. The share of starter borrowers is record high, and we have deliberately wanted starter loans to be targeted at families with children. It's about helping those who need it. We don't have to help everyone. And when people in a very mid-term period of their lives don't get loans on the ordinary credit market, it's because they don't have equity. Then there is equity that is the problem, not the access to capital in the capital market.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e740	In its letter to the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the Council of State states that start-up loans are an important form of housing policy for the government because it promotes ownership. At the same time, the Council of State rejects extending the scheme to young people without rich parents — and refers to the BSU scheme. For young people with general income and high rent, it will take many years — not to say decades — to reach the total savings of the BSU of 300,000. In these years, most people are referred to renting and paying high rent. By owning a dwelling, a large part of the housing costs will be used to serve loans and to earn equity through it. Does the State Council believe that long-term saving through BSU is a sufficient tool for young people without equity and rich parents to be able to enter the housing market?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e749	The whole premise for the question is wrong. Young people with disabilities get a start-up loan. Young people who are in a difficult economic situation get a start-up loan if they meet the conditions. So it's like history and statistics show you're trying to solve something that's not a problem. 80 pst. of us own our own dwelling. This proportion has been increasing among them between 25 and 40 years of age. More and more people own their own home. Then you don't have to help with a problem that's not there, and to the extent that it's there, it's not because of the access to capital and to loans, it's because of the rules we have relating to equity. And we've done that consciously to dampen the growth in debt and to dampen the growth in housing prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e756	It is possible that the undersigned heard a bit of error, and it may seem from the change in line that one actually defines a little different whether one meets the conditions for getting a start loan, whether one is in a difficult situation or not. The conditional threshold, that is, the threshold you set for starting a loan, is a political decision that I understand the Council of State here. Then it becomes a little interesting to notice the last state council said in its statement, that starting loans were a priority, that all municipalities would be allocated the initial loans they wanted. But then the question really becomes: is it that the need to meet the challenges we see could have been actually solved by changing the terms of the start-up loan scheme so that more people had taken part in it and had the opportunity to enter the market?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e761	I feel that we look completely different at what start-up loans are. The representative's experience of being an ordinary offer to an ordinary group of people, I do not think it is. Starting loans shall be an offer to people who, for a longer period, are in a difficult economic situation, especially families with children. It is an instrument for meeting a group that would otherwise not receive loans on the ordinary credit market. The representative's demand is a loan that can be granted to anyone as an alternative to the ordinary credit market or pending the saving of equity. But then it's the equity requirement that's the problem, not the fact that you're disadvantaged, because you're not.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e766	Based on the answers given by the Council of State, I understand that she lives in a completely different world than the young people I know. They pay very high rents. They could have operated a loan, but they don't have rich parents, and they have a low salary. Many have very common occupations – they work in shops, they drive buses, they work with very common occupations. They are not disadvantaged in that sense, but they are, because they do not get into the housing market and have to pay all they can scrape together, in rent instead of being able to make the sense: got a loan, paid down on it and paid down on their own home. So I'm going to get a little bit confused about whether the Council really understands the situation of these young people. Does the Council of State think it is possible to save on the price increase of housing if you have a normal job and rent equivalent to a mortgage on a normal dwelling?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e771	I can trust the representative, Andersen, that my circle of acquaintances is quite ordinary. There's the youth that owns, and we have youth as a tenant -- just like in every other group of society. But what the representative here confirms with his question is that it is the equity requirement that is the problem. The young people the representative here refers to cannot save, but then it is the equity requirement that is the problem, and then that's what you have to discuss whether to keep or not. It's a side related to both debt growth and price growth. If there's something that hits the initials, the ones that's never inside, it's getting inside. Then, of course, the price of the dwelling means everything.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e777	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e784	It is worth noting that in its comments, the Right and Advance Party seem to be very pleased that the granting of start-up loans has fallen sharply since youth were excluded from the scheme in 2014. It seems like the Council of State is, too. It is possible that some municipalities could better manage their allocation of start-up loans historically. Starting loans shall, of course, be an offer to those who do not receive housing finance through the ordinary credit market. The Right Party and the Advance Party do not seem to be concerned that today’s situation – as the representative Karin Andersen was involved in the line change – is that too many young people are tied to the rental market for dwellings because they do not have the opportunity to finance the purchase of housing even if they have income that gives them the ability to pay. As responsible politicians, we should no longer sit calm and look at the difficult situation we have put young people in who want to enter the housing market. We have to do something, and it's referred to more alternatives. Governments are most interested in discussing the equity requirement. That may be interesting to some extent in isolation, but even if we were to change the equity requirement, there will still be many young people who won't have the opportunity to enter the housing market, and that's who we're talking about. This is why the House Bank was established — to facilitate access for people most to acquire owner-occupied housing. Start-up loans through the Husbank are therefore an important social housing tool from which the government has excluded young people. The current government has reduced the Husbanken framework from 25 billion. SEK in 2013 to 17 billion. kr in 2018, while we have seen an increase in the price of housing, so that several have been excluded from accessing that market. The Right Party and the Advance Party point to the BSU as a more correct instrument. We in the Centre Party too may agree that it is important to facilitate targeted housing saving among young people, just to meet the equity requirement, but one does not exclude the other. At the same time, by making BSU a main asset, we say that most people have to wait many years — perhaps all their lives — before saving enough equity to get a regular loan for housing financing, regardless of whether they are young or possibly families with children. In these years, they use income to rent a dwelling instead of being able to spend more on making deposits in owner-occupied dwellings — because the growth of housing prices is greater than saving capacity. An embellishment of the housing loan regulation and this around equity is also cited as an alternative to providing more young people with the opportunity to obtain loans for the financing of owner-occupied dwellings. I believe that the mortgage regulation must be assessed at all times. It was introduced in order to prevent debt financing from housing for persons who could have problems managing the loan in the ordinary credit market, including: at an increasing interest rate. It is difficult to see that a change or removal of the housing loan regulation can be justified if the reasons for setting it up have not changed significantly. Then we come up with the question of whether the House Bank can be an alternative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e797	The representative Nordlund, who was on the platform just before me now, said something such as that the start-up loan scheme was a housing social measure from which young people were now excluded. It is probably at the heart of the whole issue — just that young people, highly educated people with high incomes, do not need a housing social response. And that's exactly why the government has chosen to prioritise differently. I believe that that priority applies regardless of whether or not you split the scheme into two, which is used as an argument for not depriving those who need it the most. The consequences of that policy have been tried before, and that did not work out well. It's important that we keep the growth of debt under control. At a time when we do not have an overview of the development of interest rates, nor of the development of housing prices, I believe that at least a warning should be given if you are going to get 100 pst. loan financing of a dwelling at risk decreases in value. There is a reason to make the judgements that banks make about whether or not you can obtain a loan, and that is a reason why a housing loan regulation has been introduced. But you can also look at how to follow it up. There is also reason to remember that there are record young people who own their own homes today. Several new dwellings are also being built. We've simplified the legislation, and the answer to get even more people to own their own home is to make sure that we continue that work. The representative of the Greni called for a housing social uplift and believes that giving resource-intensive young people access to start-up loans would be such a boost. I believe that the answer to that is rather the opposite. It's under this government we've lifted the housing social work, and it's true whether SV goes up to the pulpit and says it or not. It's record few homeless people in Norway today. The decline is greatest among children. Those who get housing receive more. Almost 90 pst. by those who receive a start-up loan through the Husbank, it makes their housing fully financed. Several go from renting to owning through the projects on which the government has invested. I can guarantee that the social housing promise will continue in the coming period, but this is done by applying housing social measures to housing social work rather than using housing social measures to help young people with a high level of resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e810	This is politics, and this shows the difference in politics. This case shows the difference between the Workers' Party and the Right, the Advance Party and the Left, and partly the Christian People's Party. It shows the difference between what we might call the right- and left-hand sides of Norwegian policy. This is a divorce matter. If you look at page 4 in the setting, you will find that, among other things, The Labour Party supports the proposal where we ‘ask the Government to amend the start-up loan regulations of the Husbank, so that applicants who are young or first-time start-ups with a pay-up capacity but without equity will be in the target group to receive start-up loans’. Furthermore, ‘The start-up loan scheme is divided into two schemes, one for today’s target group and one for young first-time start-ups’. It is an excellent proposal, which should have been adopted unanimously in the UK. Unfortunately, it won't, and some of the foundations may hang in the history. I don't think the Right Party and the Advance Party have any desire to use the House Bank at all. At least they have no desire to help as many young people as possible enter the housing market. I hear that there is a lot of talk about rules for banks etc. There is a shadowing of what the matter is really about. I know a lot of young people who have acquired their own home just because they have received $100,000, $10,000 – perhaps up to $200,000 – in a start-up loan scheme that allowed them to get over their knees, get their own home and come in and take part in the development they have said in Norway: that you should be self-owner. These kids didn't have rich parents. They might have had two common jobs, one in a gas station and one as an assistant in a kindergarten. They could pay for themselves, but they did not have the opportunity to save this. I also hear that you are hiding behind the BSU. It is a scheme for those who are perhaps the best placed and who can manage to benefit from the tax advantage provided by an extended BSU scheme. Nor will the government be involved in increasing the Husbank's framework, and not in facilitating a two-part division, is politics, and it shows the difference between the right and left sides of Norwegian policy. It's a shame this isn't going to be a unanimous decision in Stortinget, because it would have deserved to be. The youth out there who struggles to get into the housing market had earned a raise that looked at them.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e823	This is a proposal that should have a majority, and I am very disappointed in the Christian People's Party, which is not in it. Those who are now so deeply concerned about the disadvantaged and who want to help people who are not disadvantaged in the housing market may not have been able to get what the government has done in terms of reducing the wealth tax for those who own difficult properties, difficult dwellings and two-three dwellings, or those who are lucky enough to receive loans and who receive interest rebates. If I were to borrow my house and buy me a cabin in Lake Süsjön, you're jamming with and paying the interest for me, all of you, because that's what I'm allowed to deduct from the tax. But giving young people who have low wages, no savings and no rich parents, the opportunity to raise a loan in the House Bank, so that they can pay the loan they can afford to pay, and pay down to themselves on their own housing, it's kind of too much to give to anyone. It's like expanding social housing policy. I don't know, but I think everyone sitting here probably has loans -- most of them. You're part of the social housing policy, all of you, because you get to subtract the interest on the loans on the tax, all of you. So stop talking like that! This is about a sensible arrangement, so that young people who manage, but who have to spend their wages on rent so that they can't save up to the equity requirement, get a loan and pay for it, and get done with it. It's not a loss. It doesn't even cost anything. These are people who are going to pay off the loan. Yeah, I'm worried about debt. But if there's something that drives prices in the market, it's that they can buy up more and get interest deductions and deductions on the property tax. We're part of sponsoring them, and they're driving up the prices. No one is raising a index finger to anyone who buys an apartment for their kids or grandchildren, and I understand them well. But we need to open up the possibility for those who don't have it, but who have a safe economy. This, I think, is a very strange debate. In addition, we are told that the social housing measures are increasing. The housing aid is in kronor and ear less than in 2009, and housing costs have increased enormously. There are far more people now who have living expenses far above the boute poison ceiling than before. The House Bank reports in its annual reports that those who receive housing support make NOK 7 000 less and have NOK 18 000 more in expenditure each year. This isn't better. These are different policies, the housing market has become a different machine, and the government will not take responsibility for turning it around.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e836	The representative Holm Lønseth was really in the middle of what we're talking about, but the trail was a little bit of. For there is just a resourceful young person with a means of paying, but without the possibility of saving and living at the same time, as is the case under this scheme. Yes, it has been divided into two before, and it has been done with great success, but there were some cases where it was not right. That's why the Center Party has once again said that we should open up, with a somewhat tighter device than before, so that young people with payment skills can take part in the start-up loan scheme, and that this will help those young people who have a regular job but who do not have a basis for keeping track of price developments when you hire. It really should have been unanimous, because this is really about giving equal opportunities to a little bit of different people around. I thought that was something we were striving for in this room. But I record that there are some people who are going to get involved in the scheme, and some who are not going to participate, and then you use substituting arguments or shading with references to e.g. the equity requirement, in order not to address this. It's a shame, because it had earned this hall, and it had earned everyone, that we had actually arranged a system that allowed young people to enter the housing market regardless of background, provided they have the opportunity to pay. It is precisely what these schemes would try to achieve. After listening to what the representative Holm Lønneth and to the extent that the Council of State was also talking about: not getting a loan in an ordinary credit market, in the open, does not necessarily mean that you do not have the ability to pay. It would have been more profitable overall for society to participate in housing prices, and to the extent that you as an individual were able to take part in the security of owning a dwelling. So there's a lot of tools we can discuss to balance this and even it out. But the Husbank was thus created as a housing social instrument, and we should again use the Husbank's arrangements in such a way that we ensure that those who have the opportunity actually have the opportunity to own their own housing – equity requirements or own funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e847	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e865	When Norway is to develop towards the future, it is crucial that we use the whole country. We need to build strong regional centres and lay the basis for creating growth and value creation both in small and large cities and in District Norway. The Kongsvinger region is located south of Hedmark, and today includes the municipalities of Kongsvinger, Åsnes, Grue, Eidskog, South Odal and North Odal, with Kongsvinger city as a regional center. From 1 January 2020, the Kongswinger region will become part of the new region, coerced together by Hedmark and Uppland. The centre of the new region is located in the Mjøs region, with Hamar, Lillehammer, Gjøvik and Raufoss. However, the future development of Hedmark and Uppland must involve the development of all the district regions forming part of the new region. That is why I am pleased that today we can have our own debate on the Kongswinger and Kongswinger region, which is an important region with strength, innovation and great opportunities to contribute to national growth and to take us into the future based on new green industries. The Kongswinger region contributes to productivity, innovation and value creation in many sectors, and in particular the bio-based industries. It is Norway’s largest forest region, and it is also one of the largest in food production, especially of potatoes and cereals. The ambition of the forest and wood industries is national turnover of 180 billion. kr by 2045, which is a fourfold increase in turnover of 43 billion. in 2012. The transition of forest and Norway to a biobased society is one of the greatest opportunities and advantages of Kongsving. In addition, the Kongsvinger region is one of the largest in construction and construction and industry and has the highest industrial density in Hedmark with the 7th industrial cluster as a power centre. Kongswinger is centrally located in the East, with a 1-hour and 15-minute journey to Oslo Centre and 1-hour to Oslo Airport. By comparison, it is 1 hour and 30 minutes from Oslo Centre to Hamar, and between Hamar and Kongswinger. This means that the region has an attractive location near Oslo, which creates great opportunities for the growth and development of the labour market. Kongswinger is a communication node both for the east-west axis between Oslo and Stockholm, and for the north-south axis between Central Norway and Sweden and Europe. However, there are a number of transport projects that need to be put in place to fully exploit the potential of the Kongswinger region. Increased investment in rail is a key measure to strengthen the competitiveness of the forest industry and industry in general, to get transport and freight from road to rail, and to bind the Kongswinger region closer together as a housing and labour market region. Freight package The Inland must be realised as soon as possible, and the railway network around Kongswinger is central, with the electrification of the Solør- und Rørosbanen and the extension of the Kongswingerbahn as important projects. Greater capacity is also needed at the timber terminal at Norsenga. Today's capacity is 750,000 cubic metres per year, but the need is at least 1 million cubic metres to meet the demand for pulpwork, sawdust and tile in the future. E16 between Kongsvinger and Klöfta is an international transport corridor and an important route and export route. It is the regional connection to Oslo and Akershus, and it is also one of the most important years of travel to Sweden from large parts of the East, West and Middle Norway. E16 is going to have a traffic growth of 40 pst. up to 2040, with the greatest increase in heavy traffic, and sections for the construction of the Nybakk-Slomarka route remain, which is a bottleneck that causes major economic disadvantages because long-distance transport is mixed with local traffic and is prevented by capacity, roundabouts, environmental streets and reduced speed limits. Then I will challenge the Minister: Will the government give priority to the completion of the remaining sections of the E16 as soon as possible, and when can we expect this to happen? State jobs located throughout the country are also important for growth, development and housing. Of course, that also applies in Kongswinger. The central statistical agency is a large state institution divided between Kongsvinger and Oslo, with a 40-60 distribution of jobs. But today it's only 37.5 pst. of the employees who work on Kongsvinger and there is a great deal of concern about whether there will be a deterioration in the number of employees and disciplines on Kongswinger in the future in favour of the localisation in Oslo. It is essential for the regional labour market, for development and knowledge-building in the region, that the SSB continue to be strengthened instead of being built down. Other institutions also have important government jobs, including: in the justice sector, where we have the Police College Education Centre and the prisons at Bruvoll and at Vardåsen in Kongsvinger. Will the government ensure that these jobs are developed and strengthened instead of being built down, and can we also expect new investment in state jobs and relocation to the Kongswinger region? In the future, the Kongswinger region will need more and more expertise both in the public and private sectors, and Kongswinger is already a student city today. For many years, students have been trained as nurses, teachers, economists and protectors at the Royal College Centre in Kongsvinger, as well as police training. But the dream and goal of Kongswinger is to take Kongswinger to a new level as a student city. Several study services are established or on the stairs, including studies. related to sustainability economy, digital management, ICT, analysis and strategy. There are quite concrete efforts that are linked to the industry in the region and the jobs that are already there, including in the public sector. Some of the new studies to be conducted are also quite unique in national contexts, which is a major advantage for Kongsvinger, and it is crucial to continue the development of Kongswinger as a university town to ensure that existing businesses have access to competence, to innovation and to maintain a high level of public administration competence. But the Central Party also believes that Kongsvinger must become a permanent part of the national university network and have its own campus and student relations in the long term. So then I would also challenge whether there is anything the government can do about it and work for. The possibilities in the Kongswinger region are great, and there are many people in the region who every day do an incredible job to strengthen the region, create opportunities and development and work for a bright future. But the Kongswinger region is also dependent on the state's efforts in key areas. It is impossible to include everything, but now I have mentioned some of the most important. I hope the Council of State will answer that question. So I have come to the question: How will the government develop the Kongsvinger region with national transportation projects, study offers, state jobs and business to develop Kongswinger as a housing, labour and industrial region?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e895	The representative, Enger Mehl, asks how the government will develop Kongsvinger with national transportation projects, study offers, state jobs and business. And that's in itself the core of the government's political platform, for transport, transport, knowledge and competence, jobs and business, is what we are giving very clear priority to. We are now working on transforming the Norwegian economy to create growth and new jobs and ensure that we have more legs to stand on. That is why we are also giving priority to measures that are just promoting value creation and increasing productivity. Good general framework conditions and a tax system that stimulates business start-ups, jobs and Norwegian private ownership are central. First of all, more jobs have to be created – preferably in the private sector – and more have to be qualified for the jobs. In order to succeed, the government is betting on knowledge, research and development. Knowledge and competence are important to succeed in the development of industry for the future. The interpellant points out that the Kongswinger region has a major future need for competence. It's about the whole country, I'd like to add, if we're going to succeed in developing business and preserving our welfare community. The Inland College has several study offers in Kongsvinger, both half-yearly and full-year studies in economics, management and innovation, Bachelor of Arts in Nursery and Masters in Economics and Management. Since 2013, the number of students has increased by between 50 and 100 each year. ==References== 650 students will be associated with Kongsvinger in 2018. Inland higher education was allocated additional funding last year from the State budget to strengthen the ICT study offer in Kongsvinger. The Inland Higher Education and the Higher Education Foundation shall also contribute to the development of a cluster of competences in Kongsvinger. Current tenants are businesses that cooperate with higher education in terms of studies and other areas of competence, including: Hedmark Knowledge Park. The region has a variety of activities in forests and agriculture, industry and plants. As the interpellant points out, there's a lot of interesting happening on this front in the Kongswinger region. And it's business itself that here is absolutely central. The government is committed to giving priority to general framework conditions that stimulate establishment and expansion. The government also contributes with direct instruments, including: through support from Innovation Norway. Innovation Norway has supported several enterprises in the Kongsvinger region. Salsus AS has been granted 2 million. SEK in investment grants and 10 million. kr in loans. The holding must invest 100 million. kr in new installation for the production of broth and wet sauces. That means about. 50 new jobs in Kongsvinger. Nordisk Massivtre is another example of a company supported by Innovation Norway. The company has received a low risk loan of 4.5 million. SEK, regional risk loan of EUR 2,5 million. SEK and district grants of 2 million. kr. The company Up Norway has received both grants and loans from Innovation Norway to develop a new platform to make Norwegian tourism products visible and accessible on the global market. It can result in increased value creation throughout the Norwegian travel industry. These are just a few examples of companies in the region that are doing well and that have received support from Innovation Norway. In addition, the Kongswinger region has received 10 million. kr in aid in the form of regional conversion funds from the Ministry of Local Government and Modernisation for the period 2010–2013. In 2017, Hedmark County reported that over the three years this work had resulted in 115 jobs in 80 new enterprises. In order to continue the investment in the workplace, the municipality developed a new project plan together with, inter alia, municipalities in Glamdalen. Since 2016, Hedmark County Municipality has received funds from KMD to assist in the new investment, which is particularly linked to the incubator operation in Hedmark Knowledge Park. The Kongsvinger region also has a number of state jobs, including: at the Central Bureau of Statistics and the School of Police. Kingswinger’s region of residence and labour experienced an increase in the number of government employees — not including government enterprises and hospitals — of almost 19 p.m. for the period 2006 to 2015. The government has a goal of locating more government jobs throughout the country. It is to strengthen regional labour markets. Work places in state enterprises are mainly to be located outside Oslo. Another important contribution to industrial development and jobs is infrastructure. The interpellant believes that there is a need for large transport investments on the Kongswingerbahn, Solør- and Rørosbanen and on the road – and in particular E16. For the Kongswinger region, the government's transport policy is increasing its commitment to rail. The Kongswingerbahn currently has a lot of traffic on both freight and passenger trains – both local and regional trains and long-distance trains. It is stated in the National Transport Plan that the capacity of Kongswingerban should be increased, mainly in the case of new and extended crossing tracks. For the Solørbahn, the challenge is that it's diesel powered. Therefore, the Hamar-Elverum-Kongswinger route is planned to be electrified during the final part of the planning period for the national transport plan. It will mean significantly shorter time from Hamar to Kongswinger than today – we are talking about an hour and a half shorter transport time. In addition, it is planned that the deployment of E16 between Klöfta and Kongswinger will commence during the last six-year period of the national transport plan. The journey time by car between Kongswinger and Oslo has been considerably reduced in recent years due to large investments in the road. The government is concerned with spreading power and building society from below and facilitating living communities throughout the country. We will reduce state detail management and bureaucracy and ensure that power and authority are decentralised to local communities and their elected people. Local and regional reform is part of this. Regions are different in terms of their resources, and what makes them attractive. It is therefore necessary to create different strategies for growth and development. The regions and municipalities that are able to take advantage of their special advantages in creating attractive jobs and communities will have the best opportunities for development. Local politicians are here the most important industrial policy we have. We have therefore started the Urban Region Programme. The aim of the programme is to bring municipalities together to strengthen regional growth in their own region. This is a programme involving half of the country's municipalities, including municipalities in the Kongsvinger region. Here, the municipalities of Eidskog, Grue, Nord-Odal, Sør-Odal, Åsnes and Kongsvinger have merged to strengthen the commitment to competence in the business life of the region and to facilitate investment in the region. To conclude, good cooperation across sectors and levels of government is important to succeed in creating good societies for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e937	I would like to thank you for the statement by the Council of State. I feel that it was very general and with a few new, concrete actions – more an overview of things going on in the Kongswinger region, much at the initiative of the local themselves. I hope that in this debate we will know a little bit more about, for example. the Council of State stated that the deployment of E16 should be initiated during the last period of the NTP. But when can we really expect that road to be completed? The reality of everyday life is that when you drive from Oslo to Kongsvinger, you drive on a very nice and finished road for 10 km after taking off from E6. Then there's a bottleneck where it's going incredibly slowly for both passenger traffic and freight traffic, and then again it's a very nice know-how to Kongswinger. It's a very strange way to build a road on which to build a four-field highway, but build it piece by piece and piece, without completing the last remainder, so that the power of the new highway is really gone. I hope the Council of State can also say a little bit more about the college bet in Kongsvinger. What are the government's ambitions for it? Is it true that the government can be involved in looking at and investigating its own campus in Kongsvinger, a student relationship of its own? It had had a great effect for Kongsvinger as a city, both because it had attracted competence, because it had attracted young people living there and making the city alive, and because it had given people living in the Kongswinger region – given all six municipalities – better education and opportunities to raise education levels throughout the region. Sometimes when it comes to politics, you have to be able to look from the very local and see the big picture of state action, but sometimes it's the other way around. Now we heard a lot about general measures for the whole country, but I hope the Council of State can say a little more about what you want to do in the Kongswinger region specifically, because that's what this interpellation is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e948	I'm so lucky to be a municipal minister for 422 municipalities. When I've spent 10 minutes explaining both the general work we do – which is very important also for Kongsvinger – and not least dealing with the questions asked by the interpellant, I think I've explained the effort being made on the road, on knowledge, on business and on state jobs in this region. That was at least what I was trying to do. So I hear the interpellant has special questions related to special bets. Interpellant is probably aware that it is the Stortinget that adopts the priorities of road and rail projects. It was done last spring — in the national transport plan. The priorities set out in this room are set out. We also have our own Minister of Education and Research who can explain the work now being done on the roll-out of the long-term plan for higher education. In general, Kongsberg – no, Kongswinger, excuse – has been satisfied with extra efforts, including: on research and education. There are plans for major investments in infrastructure that are crucial. In addition, I have explained the efforts this government has made in enterprise-oriented programmes in Innovation Norway and the Research Council, which particularly cater for good projects from the Kongswinger region. That's very good, because they have to be in the driver's seat to develop new business.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e957	It was good that the Council of State got back again – to the Kongswinger region, because we are not in Kongsberg, just so they said. I agree with the interpellant that there were many general words and phrases in the description of the region. This is something we're used to. When we ask what you're going to do, if you have any plans, some visions, etc. – there is always another state council to ask. I would like to thank the inter-pellant for putting an important region on the agenda. The Kongswinger region has great opportunities to strengthen the Norwegian economy in the future. The assumption is that more is being done to facilitate business. More attention needs to be paid to the provision of vocational education. The E16 must be completed and the Inland Freight Package realised. Let me take a little bit of a historical look back. Wings, as the area was originally hot, have been important to the nation ever since the Viking Age. The road through Eidskog to Sweden is mentioned in the saga, and we can trace the story back to 1227. During the Hannibal Gulf in 1644, the first provisional research at the ferry site over Glomma was built, and it was the forerunner of the Kongswinger fortress. Its construction started in 1658, and the city was founded the same year. I can add that Erik Werenskiold grew up there, and Dagny Juel's childhood home is a few stone's throw away. But in 1854, the city was granted city rights. The second route in the country went from Oslo to Kongsvinger, and in 1862 they got the first train into Kongsvinger station. I can also mention that eleven years after the telephone was invented, the city got a telephone connection. It says something about already realizing that this region was important to the nation at the time. But it has evolved in interactions between municipalities, states and countries, and private business and organisational life. A lot happened in the 1960s and 1970s. I can mention Siva, which meant a lot to industrial development, and not least the establishment of the SSB, which the interpellant has been involved in. It was a very successful exodus, which happened step by step. The first office was established at the end of the 1960s. Today, there is a solid competence company with good trade unions and stable labour force. The state has many advantages of the SSB being moved right to Kongswinger, for example. low rent. But that business is being created uncertainty and unrest around the blue government. A few years ago, it was about laying down entire departments and moving what has been built up for many years, back to Oslo to replace it with business in Kongswinger, which is more unpredictable and uncertain. In addition, a lot of new skills had to be built up. This was completely incomprehensible to all those who worked there, but part of this was reversed thanks to the pressure from local politicians, the red-green ones on the Stortinget and the employees. So let's hope that the employees get the peace to focus on the important job they do for society. I wish the Council of State could say something more about it. So the Council of State tells us that travel time is reduced between Oslo and Kongswinger in recent years. That's true, that's true. But that's not the government's profit, because under the red-green things happened a lot in this region. After the financial crisis, conversion funds were granted, a police high school was established, a new warehouse was built, the Kongswingerbahn was upgraded, and an hourly departure was made on the train to Asker. The E16 was further developed, and it was made clear for further development by the National Transport Plan adopted by the Stoltenberg Government. There was a lot of promise in every election, including the last one, that the road would be built very quickly. We even heard from the representatives of the Right and Advance Party in the previous election that it would be finished in 2017. We hear what the Council of State says today, and the Minister of Finance was visiting Kongsvinger on 8 May. She also said that it is an exciting and capable business, and that she sees many good arguments for why, for example. The E16 should be built, and that she would take some views back to the government. We have heard that many times before, both from members of the government and from representatives of the Right and the Advance Party, but that is just a word. Since 2013, this region has been largely out of the list of priorities, and I hope that the Council of State will see and take it further, so that it will be able to move forward again, and develop the university centre, develop the Police College and see the potential of domestic, industrial and competences, for example. for urban economics. Now it's time that you don't just listen, but you actually do something.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e978	I would first like to thank the representative, Mr Mehl, for raising an important issue. The Kongswinger region is in many ways our window towards the markets of Europe and the world. Therefore, I think it was almost defensive when the interpellant writes here that «Development of Kongswinger will produce ring-effects throughout the Kongswinger region», because I believe that the development of the Kongswinger region is not only important for the Kongswinger region itself, but it is also important for the whole country. I mean, for example. that the point of infrastructure illustrates this quite well. The Rørosbanen and the Solørbanen are, for example, crucial to realise the ambitions of Central Norway and Northern Ireland to obtain more goods for the European market. Solving the E16 bottleneck between Klöfta and Kongsvinger is important to bind East and West in Norway together. As a result, the solution to the infrastructure challenges in the Kongsvinger region is important for creating industrial development and jobs both in the north and west of Norway. Therefore, I am pleased that electrification of the Hamar-Elverum-Kongswinger route has become part of the national transport plan and our historical commitment to rail freight actions. And even though I share the ambition that the entire Rørosbanen and the Solørbanen must be electrified, it is nevertheless worth noting that this represents the first important step that has been taken in that direction during this government. On the education side, we also see that the Kongswinger region plays an important role in a wider context – beyond its own region. In the state budget for 2018, we ensured, for example, that: new study places for the study Digital Management and Business Analytics at the College Centre in Kongsvinger. It is a unique study that combines ICT, analysis and management in a way that we find only in two other European study sites. The university centre and industry in the region, together with Hedmark Knowledge Park, have also gone ahead with exciting thoughts about a master of sustainability economy together with the academic environments at the College of the Inland, NHH and the industry in the Kongsvinger region and in Rome. So there's no doubt that the Kongswinger region here has taken a forward-looking position. As Norway’s largest forest region, the Kongsvinger region is also clearly playing an important role in the green shift and in creating more jobs, combining value creation with climate change gains. It is worth mentioning that the region has a number of industrial enterprises that are world leaders in its field. Finally, I would like to say that the most important thing for growth and development both in the Kongswinger region and elsewhere in Norway with a high potential is good, general and predictable framework conditions, which both stimulate business start-ups, jobs and not least Norwegian private ownership. I can then mention the differentiated employer's fee and the reduction of machine taxes as such important general steps that will also benefit the Kongswinger region. In the end, I would say that, unlike the representative of Enger Mehl, I am not concerned that the Kongswinger region will come under the shadow of the Mjøs region. On the contrary, I believe that the Kongswinger region is already marking itself as a forward-looking region with all the knowledge and industrial environments that they have. And I'm absolutely sure they're going to play an important role.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e995	In response to Monica Mæland, there was no new action to lift the Kongswinger region – no new measures – and as the representative Tonning Riise, the general instruments were spoken about. But in Norway, we have a tradition of taking a geographical approach when we want to bet on an area. It's just taking this city, with the Groruddal bet, where you've spent a lot of money lifting that part of the city. What is interesting about the Kongsvinger region – there are many things – is that it is the region in Norway that is closest to Oslo with low employer fees. There's a reason it has it. It has some special challenges. That's why we need to have some special efforts to raise that area, because it's a unique area with a huge potential that's unsolved. What has been the problem of government policy in recent years is that part of the important state jobs in Kongsvinger has been in play, such as the SSB, which has been a support bar in the Kongswinger region since the 1970s. They have been a loser in the budgetary round following the budgetary round when the current government has presented its proposals. It creates uncertainty, not security. It means that young people don't dare bet, don't dare live, don't dare develop it as a place. There's been a lot of discussion around the police in Kongswinger. There has always been a discussion around the hospital in Kongsvinger. We have to think like this if we're going to develop Kongswinger as an area: how can we bet on different state, public jobs to expand the labour market in that region, just like one did with the SSB in its time? When you look at the Kongswinger region, it hasn't been a winner in the last few years. That's Oslo. Bergen has been. It's been Stavanger and Trondheim. They have had more government jobs, while areas such as Kongswinger have had uncertainty all the way. When we in the Center Party raise it with a university city, it's because we think that some of the things that can be a new engine in Kongsvinger is if it gets its own campus, its own college bill, not just decentralised education. It's important, and that's right, but it should be a university city in line with other cities. Then the government has to think, can we use the higher education sector to develop an area? That's what we've done in the past. Let's take Hedmark as an example. For Årett, you had a conscious thought. At Året as a place, a university was established, and it has meant enormous ringing effects for that area in retrospect. The same should be true of Kongswinger: can we bet on a college there, first of all, to have a good college and second, to strengthen the whole Kongswinger region, to strengthen the SSB and the things that belong to it? I also believe that there are some negative challenges in the Kongswinger region. The government's predatory policy has created even greater challenges for the Kongswinger region. It was among the areas where there was the greatest rebellion against the wolf policy to the government last year. There is a potential for growth in rural development, hunting and grazing in that region. It has become a loser and has not received any compensation for it at all. They've had to take the burden on the big community. In the case of an economic activity, on which the Council of State was involved, there is no new intervention by the government to raise the agricultural production and forestry in that area. Before today, Stortinget decided that we should use more three in the Norwegian government quarter – it may be important for the Nordic massif tree in Kongswinger – pressed forward by the opposition. Innovation tools could be used in Norway to control the construction of more agricultural buildings in three. It could have been very important for Nordic Solid Trees. In summary, it should be seen from the government that Kongswinger is a developmental pearl, that there should be different instruments in terms of both state institutions, in terms of industrial measures, and in terms of trade initiatives, and that the challenges posed by Kongswinger are also taken seriously. There is no reason for Kongswinger to continue to be an area requiring a lower employer’s fee. We have to try to lift it up so that one gets growth, power and development throughout Norway and throughout Hedmark. I noticed that when the Council of State was going to bring forward something that had been done specifically for Kongswinger, she had to go back to the 2010–2013 period, and then she could also raise it, for example. The police high school that's now in play. It's going to be very interesting to hear what Monica Meland thinks about it. If the government decides to quit the high school, does she think that there will be any other bets, will she sit still and look at it, or does Monica Meland, like us from Hedmark, think that it is quite natural that you continue to bet on the activity that is in Kongswinger?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1022	Kongswinger is located in the middle of Scandinavia. In the past, Norway had more turned towards Sweden, and by 1970 it meant that Kongswinger was part of the country that was most modernized and that was in it. Then you've turned your eyes another way, and this region has unfortunately been characterized by some dislocation, an ageing population and too little bet. SV has always been concerned that we should have built a modern railway for Kongsvinger and further to Stockholm. Then Kongswinger had been a fully integrated part of the employment and housing market in Oslo. It has been, in part, it has been. The commuting has been very common for many decades, but then very many of the things we are talking about had not been such a big theme – that is, with a modern railway. The railway package is important. Then we solve a freight and environmental problem for the whole country, and we solve an important task for some of the businesses in the district that we need to develop further, namely the green industries based on three. There I really miss the government's tools, that you dare to bet. Unfortunately, there is now a investment in Norwegian raw materials and raw materials from Hedmark with industrial development in other countries. We should bet on that. Higher education and education levels have been incredibly important. Søl was with me in 1989 and took the initiative of the College Foundation in Kongsvinger, and I have been on the board until last year. Now there is a need to establish campuses with a college. The decentralised offers, until we get them in place, need to be secured with our own grants from the State budget, which SV took the initiative and got the Workers' Party and the Centre party on when we dealt with the district notification. Providing higher decentralised education where people live, when they're in work, and developing it with the local business community, I think maybe the most important regional policy measure we can have. The future is competence-based, and then we have to qualify people for the jobs needed in the future. The Kongsvinger area has a lower education rate than most other parts of the country despite the efforts we have had with the Royal College Centre in Kongsvinger. It shows that there is a need for a power cap, from kindergarten and school and up in the education system and in cooperation with business. There is a great responsibility for the Council of State, because at least the Council of State has responsibility for regional and district policy and for the local economy. There has to be a guarantee that areas like the Glamdals region and Kongswinger have the means to do the school so well that all the children we have succeed. We don't have that many of them. It's too few. We need to attract more, but we have to take incredibly good care of each one of them and make sure that they get the potential that lives in them. There is no less skill, plant and talent in this area than in any other part of the country, but it may have to be a little bit more obvious, because it's a notion that you're not as good as others, but you are. So the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation has an incredibly important job of securing good finances for municipalities to run kindergartens and schools top-notch and ensure good, decentralised instruments so that they can contribute to that economic development. Municipalities must have something to put on the table to cooperate with business about what is needed. If you run a store, you're not very interested in sitting around a table to make a plan, if you're going to make the plan together, you don't have money. The government has reduced these instruments that the county authorities have in order to contribute in areas such as: Kongswinger area, which absolutely needs this. So here's a lot of things that have to be taken care of. Finally, the Government must respond to the government's 40-60 distribution of jobs among the SSB, whether it is a target for this government as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1037	First, I would like to note that I originally sent the interview to the Prime Minister. The reason was that in the interpellation I'm dealing with different issues, which really affect different ministers. I think that is important in order to be able to see a link between the higher education sector, education sector, business and transport. That is why I also expected the Minister of State to be prepared to ask specific questions beyond her field when she was sent here to answer the question rather than the Prime Minister. I clarified in my main post – in response to Toning Riise – that I am fully aware that the development of the Kongswinger region will create ring-effects both in the region and for national growth. But it is now the case that the six municipalities in the Kongswinger region have suffered from low employment, a difficult age structure in the population and a low level of education. These are challenges that we have to solve. I'm incredibly optimistic, but I think it's also important to be realistic and pragmatic when looking at what we can do for the Kongswinger region. There are a number of concrete things that would lift the region big, and it's about the willingness to see what to do, and actually do it. There are 50,000 people living in the region, and it is clearly crucial for them to allow more people to move there, what politicians choose to prioritise at national level, whether there is a willingness to invest in regional development in the Kongswinger region. I don't think it necessarily has to be set up against the Mjøs region. That's not the goal. The goal is that after a very centralizing regional reform, we should be aware that there are still people living in the whole of the new region. We need to know that when we discuss politics, and we need to dry out discussing at local and regional level, regional level. I've heard a lot about the government being very willing to bet on business, but I think it's a pity for the Kongswinger region that, among other things. is massively cut in regional food for food development over many years. This is not good for local businesses, for small businesses, for medium-sized enterprises, for entrepreneurs locally. This could be done, for example, by: go beyond the possibilities of starting up travel businesses. The Kongswinger region has a great potential for travel life, which is also value creation. We have Finnskogen, which is unique in its kind, among others. the forest Finnish cultural heritage. A concrete question could be about the government, for example: will be involved in financing new museum buildings in Grue. But I understand that I am not getting an answer to this, so I thank you for the debate and hope that there will be something concrete in the end at least.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1051	I tried initially in an article of almost 10 minutes to go through all the areas the interpellant took up. It is clear that when I replied on behalf of the government, it was about trade, industrial development and a number of measures specifically for Kongswinger. Questions have been raised regarding the Police College and the SSB. I am asking for an understanding that this is an establishment subject to other government councils. You now have a review. What I'm very pleased with is that I'm in a government that, unlike the one that was set before, has a plan to move out state-owned businesses, which have a plan to use all of Norway, who believe that the sense is well distributed in this country. It's very important. I am pleased that Kongswinger has such a large proportion of state businesses – simply because it attracts competence. Furthermore, I believe that one of the most important things our municipalities can do is to facilitate jobs. Where you get a job, you want to live there. And then there's a lot of other relationships at the same time. I specifically mentioned this government's commitment to Innovation Norway. We have increased the appropriations for Innovation Norway, and then it is not that the more demarcated a scheme is thematic and geographical, the more active it is. It's actually the best projects reach. I have also mentioned several companies on Kongsvinger who have received million support from this government, just to contribute to business development. It's very important. It is absolutely vital that we have living and good communities throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1064	The debate on substance is closed. So 4 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1080	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a change of line of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1089	I refer to Document 8:81 S for 2017-2018 about setting up a Total Emergency Commission. Saka is made up of representatives Jenny Klinge, Liv Signe Navarsete and Trygve Slagsvold Vedum from the Center Party. The proposers point out that the change in social organisation and the security policy image creates the need for a review of all parts of the country’s preparedness. Public institutions, businesses and other actors are responsible for providing an overview of preparedness for vulnerability in their own activities, while vulnerability in society as a whole is a national responsibility. The proposers further argue that it has been a long time since Norway last had a thorough review of all parts of the preparedness, and that a new preparedness commission must take on a wide range of threats and challenges. The Commission’s overarching task shall be to demonstrate how one can make the most of the overall resources of society in order to provide good preparedness in different crisis situations. I refer you to the proposals of the Committee of the Regions that are on the agenda. The Committee agrees that the societal changes and challenges we face today must be met in a different way than that which has a basis for previous preparedness and defence commissions. Proposal providers point to relevant areas that are important for our common security. Over the past five years, the government has produced a great deal of analysis, both in the defence sector and in civil protection, which has provided us with a comprehensive knowledge of the security policy image we are surrounding today, a knowledge that underpins all the reforms and actions that are now taking place. We've come a long way in preparing Norway to meet a changed security policy challenge. The knowledge base is in place. Important policy priorities have been made, and the various departments and response agencies have started work on implementing decisions. The analyses have identified the need to implement changes in previous structures, strengthen strategic areas of action, enhance competences, update legislation, coordinate etats and upgrade and renew material. Established cultures and thinks need to be changed and reestablished. The different departments have after the treatment of Meld. St. 10 for 2016-2017, Risk in a safe society - Social security, responsibility for following up preparedness within its area of responsibility and coordinating work with other relevant departments and bodies. This responsibility is reflected in the social security directive. Interacting across sectors and knowing its role and role in the social security chain is an important commitment to managing a critical situation in a good way. Many competent actors provide different parts of the preparedness, including: naudetatane, civil defence, County Council, municipalities, county councils, Defence, private actors, voluntary organisations and several others. Conversion processes are now in progress in several of the main response agents, and we need to understand that this can be perceived as a requirement. But when the pieces of the big puzzle are in place, the goal is to see a renewed strength in the country's total preparedness. It's often about holding on and holding on. The evaluation will show whether we have to adjust the tiles every now and then. Work on preparedness in the country has been put in place. The social security chain shall be a non-breakless chain. The Long-term Plan for Defence, Strength and Sustainability emphasises the further development of the defence sector’s capacity to support civil authorities in the area of social security. Instructions for mutual support of capacity and materials are established between the civil sector and the defence, and between different civil actors. At this point in time, a response commission will most likely not add anything new to the knowledge base, but on the contrary, shift resources and focus away from the important work being done. We should remember that the actors to help in such work are the same actors that are now in the midst of the mission to complete the mission given by the Stortinget and the decisions taken. I appreciate the fact that the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party stand together to hold fast to implementing the measures and reforms adopted by the Stortinget. These parties also see the need for a review of overall preparedness in the long term and are prepared to assess it when the major reforms have arrived. The following proposals will therefore be presented to the Right and the Advance Party: ‘The government is asked to consider setting up an overall emergency commission once important reform work in the justice sector has been completed.’ I would otherwise like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1115	The representative Frida Melvær has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1120	The Workers' Party supports the proposal to set up a Total Emergency Commission. The preparedness challenges we face in Norway are numerous and complex; they are both civil and military, and the security policy image is characterized by stronger international tensions while the terrorist attacks have become more numerous. Climate change also creates greater challenges for social security. Stable and long-term food and water supply can be affected by climate change and more uncertain international conditions. I mean, there's a lot of good reasons to put down a total preparedness commission. It's to get a thorough review of how we, as a society, organize preparedness, if we get that effect, the security we have to expect from all the billions of the community's resources that are, after all, taken care of. During the processing of the Disbursement Communication Risk in a Secure Society – Social security in the previous period, the Labour Party proposed to set up a selection to develop a national strategy on security and overall preparedness, while seeking to harmonise the responsibilities of the different response actors. At the time, we received support from the Center Party and SV, but not from the majority in Stortinget, and unfortunately, the proposal of the Center Party does not get multiples today. It seemed to me that I'm sorry, because I think such a commission, such a selection is necessary and in no way would have jeopardized being any sleep cushion for all the important measures that you're doing in the field of emergency. I see no reason for one to wait for reform work. This could be a done parallel, and it would be an advantage for such a type of commission. Take, for example, the great NATO exercise Trident Juncture, to be carried out in October and November of this year in several states of the country. It could have been a follow-up parallel or at least had as a battle point into such a Commission work immediately afterwards. During the hearings in the Committee, there was a great deal of excitement about the proposal. Several pointed to a need addressed by the Labour Party throughout the previous period, the need for a comprehensive threat assessment. The Bureau pointed out, inter alia, that: on this, and I just want to repeat that the Workers' Party supports it whole-heartedly. I thought that the government very often seems very satisfied with its efforts for Norwegian preparedness, but there are some political measures and measures that are being taken by this government that are not good for total preparedness. We see in the budget that a cut-off in the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness, which is not about removing bureaucracy, but about social security work and preparedness work. It's going to be cut in the Public Health Institute, which is additionally imposed on a group model that makes them now spend 40 million. SEK-60 million. kr more operational each year. The government will further reduce Home Affairs and has in no way enabled Home Security to ensure proper object protection. It is a recurring challenge that the police, who are in the midst of a reform, are also not funded both to be reformed and to have the day-to-day operational service. It's been six years since the Gjørv Commission's report. I think it's a good opportunity now to raise your eyes and make a thorough and good assessment of how one has managed to implement the recommendations that came then. Then I want to end with a quote from a chronicle that was in the Evening Post last year, from Torbjørn Bongo from the Officers' Union and Tom Rune Klemetsen in the NTL Defense: ‘Total preparedness involves identifying and exploiting the whole of society’s resources to raise awareness and preparedness for any kind of threat and incident, from natural disasters and accidents through epidemics and terrorism to hybrid attacks and wars. We can never protect ourselves against all the risks, and we can never avoid all the dangers. But there is no excuse for not systematically and coordinated efforts to maximise security; maximum preparedness; total preparedness.’ I note that when our position has been submitted to other committees, the Christian People's Party has signaled that they do not support the proposal. That's what I think is a pity. I think it would be a good idea to put down a total emergency commission, while in no way needing or needing to be a sleeping pad for all the important work that is left in the field of preparedness.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1146	Good interaction between response operators is essential to ensure that citizens are safe. We in the Central Party have put forward the proposal to set down a total emergency commission because we think it is time to look at the military and civil preparedness again in a holistic manner. We greatly appreciate support from both the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party, but we think it is a pity that the government party and the Christian People's Party reject the proposal. I want to come back to this, but first I want to say something about what support the proposal has received from different sources. The backbone of our proposal is that it was in the year 2000 that a corresponding selection produced a report, and it is beginning to be many years ago. Very much has happened both nationally and internationally since then. During the hearings held by the Justice Committee on our proposal for a new Total Preparedness Commission, we met, among others. Joint Police Association, Sanitary Women, Norwegian Shipowners' Association, Norwegian Defence Association and Norwegian Officers' Association. More than these were present, and some also send written recordings. The clear message was that interaction between response agents can be much better. Police districts should become even better aware of what voluntary organisations they can trade in in response. Not least was the conclusion from the hearing and from the written input of the committee that a full-scale response commission is needed, and it is urgent. When the government party and the Christian People's Party reject the proposal to set down a total preparedness commission, it is for cracking and partly unclear reasons. I refer first to the answer from former Minister of Justice Amundsen. He replied that there is a lot of work going on in the area and that a selection could be dropped. He would still wait with this until after the great NATO exercise Trident Juncture, which is to be held in the fall. This is about the largest full-scale exercise on Norwegian soil since the cold war. The Amundsen also referred to the Total Defence Programme, which the Government launched in 2016, and which is due to be closed in 2020, and that this programme should be terminated before a possible Commission is set down. I'm open to the government having good intentions in the area of total preparedness, but I'm worried when neither the government itself nor the government party in the Justice Committee listens better to what the hearing authorities say. From there we got a clear message that there is actually a quick need for a comprehensive response commission. This suggests that the total defence program that the government has seen not entirely meets the need to see the preparedness in context, and is not targeted enough. Alternatively, the importance of the government’s work has not been widely appreciated by the wide range of response agents, and the government itself has failed to anchor and spread the work so that it can actually improve overall preparedness. In either case, it just shows clearly why there is a need for a new Commission. We have also seen this exemplified in the crisis surrounding the air ambulance in the north in recent times. Here the Minister of Justice will not see the role he himself has as the coordinating Minister of Emergency Response towards the other departments, and the discharge of responsibility becomes clear, cf. questions from the Central Party in the spontaneous Question Time on Wednesday 9 May. We will return to this in later articles in the debate. The Right Party and the Advance Party, represented in the Judicial Committee, state in their comments that it is not appropriate to set up an overall emergency commission, because, in their opinion, it will remove resources from the important implementation work of the so-called close police reform, the work of the ICT Security Communication, the Total Defence Programme, etc. I would have been tempted to agree with those if these processes were those they call, moved in the right direction and contributed to better overall preparedness – and not least if the government would be able to value voluntary preparedness efforts to a greater extent. However, the proposal of the Right and the Progress Party to ask the government to consider setting down an overall emergency commission once important reform work in the justice sector has been completed is, in fact, just a request to skip objections to ongoing and planned reforms. In practice, they will not want such a commission until they are finished in government itself. I'm not going to say what such a total emergency commission would conclude with in different fields, but I'm pretty sure that less food production on Norwegian feed resources was not their recommendation, and I'm pretty sure that such a commission would think it was an advantage to see different reforms and changes in context, such as the police reform and development of Home Affairs. I then take up the proposal of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1171	Then the representative Jenny Klinge mentioned the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1176	Initially, I want to make it quite clear that good preparedness is at the top of important issues for this government. The Klinge, Navarssete and Schlagsvold Vedum representatives point to important societal changes and challenges that characterise the security policy image. I agree that there is a need to meet today's challenges differently from those described by previous preparedness and defence commissions. However, I do not agree that at this stage there is a need for the creation of a new Total Emergency Commission. The main reason for this is that a number of work is already in progress which gives us a good description of the status of the emergency response. In order to ensure an overall approach to the further development of the overall defence, the government established in 2016 a programme to further develop the overall defence and enhance the resilience of societal critical functions. Cooperation between public and private enterprises within the framework of the overall defence is essential. We therefore want to facilitate better interaction and want to create and further develop meeting places to enable this. The programme will be completed by the end of 2020, and I will keep Stortinget properly informed about the work. In 2017 Stortinget Meld. St. 10 for 2016–2017 on social security, and this spring, the Stortinget addressed the first ICT Security Scoreboard. In addition, I have received from the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness Assessment of Future Civil Protection and Civil Protection Measures. The Ministry is now considering these recommendations. I agree with the representatives of big business that it is important to see the preparedness work done in the departments, in the Directorates and in the private sector, in the context. I believe that this is where the key to good total defence lies. Common meeting places are important to discuss relevant issues, such as: communication solutions, sharing of information and, where appropriate, duplication of work. New instructions were laid down for the work of the ministries on social security on 1 September 2017. The Government also reports on the status and status of the identified national, societally critical functions in the annual budget documents of the Stortinget. It is worth noting that NATO has assessed the status of the overall defence work in their assessment of the defence planning of the Member States, and we are getting good feedback from the alliance. It's not a rest cushion. For the harvest, the total defence shall be tested. Norway is the host of the NATO exercise Trident Juncture. The practice will be the largest full-scale exercise on Norwegian soil since it's called the war. The population is going to notice it. The civilian side is strong inside. The exercise will give us a unique chance to exercise defense and total defense, and we will have a good opportunity to see where our potential for improvement lies. We're going to use the exercise for everything it's worth, to further develop the total defence and our national preparedness. Only after this exercise and during the final phase of the overall defence programme do I believe the time has come to discuss issues relating to the establishment of a public body tasked with reviewing Norway’s national and local preparedness. I look forward to a constructive dialogue with the Stortinget in this important work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1195	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1200	In this setting, the Right Party and the Progress Party propose that the government consider setting up an overall emergency commission when "important reform work" in the justice sector has been completed. My question to the Council of State is: When does the Council of State think that 'important reform work' in the justice sector will be completed?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1205	In my post I mentioned several things that it is working on. The overall defence programme shall be completed by 2020. Last year we dealt with a big message on social security. We just had a big message about ICT security. And we have a NATO exercise to do. The experience from these determines when we're going to do it. It's not like we're not considering working with total defense work even if we don't have a commission, but now we've done some important things that I think it's natural that we learn from before we put down any commission, so that the Commission gets that experience base in its further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1211	I thank you for your answer. It sounds like you actually want to set up a total preparedness commission, not just consider it, as the government's response was now. There have also been some recordings from non-Worker's Party for some years that there was a need for a comprehensive threat assessment, i.e. not only a common threat assessment in a product, but a processual common threat assessment, such as a common analysis, language, terminology, as requested by the Officers' Association. So I wonder if the Council of State – the new Council of State – will take the initiative for such a collective threat assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1218	We're doing a lot of different threat assessments on an ongoing basis. I would not at all reject the fact that there may be a need to make an overall assessment, just as I would not at all reject the fact that there may be a need to make such an assessment in the form of a commission, possibly, in the future. The point is that now we have some projects going on, which it's very natural to gain experience from and evaluate before we move on to the next step. It may be that we are going to reveal weaknesses that make us need to step up our efforts, but the processes that have been going on in recent years – there are quite a few, there are quite a few that have not been completed yet, and there are quite a few exercises that are going on – I think it's natural to have experience before we draw any conclusions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1223	The government used the Gjørv Commission as an argument to implement changes in the police action that the Gjørv Commission itself never claimed were necessary. Of course, a total preparedness commission would, if it were cut down, have opinions about the ongoing and forthcoming reforms that the government is behind, and what it is gathering the impact of these. Governments will not set up a General Emergency Commission now, but have not refused to set up such a commission in the future. If, however, such a Commission were now put down and critically objected to the various projects that the government is implementing or planning to implement, because the combined effect of these would adversely affect overall preparedness, would the Council have adjusted the course of these reforms? Or would the reform be carried out in accordance with the agreed plans, regardless of the recommendations of a PSC?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1228	Now it became very much if, if and again if, that I shouldn't wonder about. But what should be a cross of thought for everyone is that the Storting itself has addressed the big message of social security, and recently, just a few weeks ago, I stood here discussing ICT security. In connection with the big messages, Stortinget has given, we'll say, guidelines and leadership for what the government is going to do, and I think it's natural that the government is allowed to do what the Stortinget asks, before we possibly stop the process that the Stortinget asked the government to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1233	The hypothetical was that the Council of State would have listened to relevant objections. The DSB has been commissioned by the government to lease work on the total defence program. I think it's a very important input when the NTL DSB, in the hearing of the Justice Committee, underlines that there is no complete list of existing resources and resources being used on standby by all sectors and actors. Therefore, it is not possible to know whether resources will be used best, whether there are enough, or whether individual areas need to be fortified. NTL DSB said that the Storting lacks what we need to do to make a real political priority, and they, together with almost all of the other hearing authorities, underlined the need for a total preparedness commission, and that quickly. The NTL DSB considered that this Emergency Response Commission could have been a good interface with the Total Defense Program. Does the Minister of Justice disagree with NTL DSB about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1240	Again, I do not reject the fact that it may be right or appropriate to have a total defence commission. But I want to stress that sometimes it's okay to act and not just investigate, and now we've started some programs that act and implement, and it might be useful to get the actions done before we re-examine. That's really just what I'm saying. With the programs going on, and with the marshalls we've got in many ways from the Storting, it's natural that these things work before we evaluate them.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1245	This means that the cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1252	I would like to focus on two aspects of the preparedness work included in the representative proposal: health and food safety. In the last few weeks, the safety of getting to the hospital when acute health problems occur has been central to the debate. This concerns the failure of the Air Ambulance Service, and in Trøndelag there is a reduction in the Ambulance Service, both with reduced safety and increased response time as a result. Crashes in the Air ambulance service due to the lack of emergency assessments in the tendering process have dominated the media image. It is difficult to understand that those responsible for the service seem to be completely unprepared for employees in today's service to apply for other work when they know that their jobs are gone in a year's time. Postponement based on the fact that this concerns the transfer of activities with rights to job transfers for the staff of the ambulance service would probably have ensured the availability of emergency workers during the transitional period between the former and the new ambulance service provider. That this is only now, after a long crisis in service, is critical. The chaos in the ambulance service is an expression that the preparedness and security of users has come into a different line in the planning process. This cannot be the case in the Norwegian health system. In Trøndelag, we have experienced that health companies are cutting the ambulance service. Several day ambulances have been removed, and several have been proposed to be removed, despite strong warnings from the municipalities, from the ambulance staff and from the local authorities. It weakens preparedness and leads to a weakening of security in the districts. Unfortunately, this is possible, and it may be because health businesses are completely free of political governance from the state. One example is the removal of the day ambulance at Oppdal, right in the holiday season, when there are most people at Oppdal. There has been a warning from health professionals that this is not feasible without safety concerns and that the response time will be too high. The attempts to defend the cuts, whether from the Council of State or from the hospitals, have not calmed down, nor on the contrary. Local health services believe that cuts significantly impair health protection and cannot be defended. So for food safety: safety for enough food and safe food is far too low in Norway. We have a lower level of self-sufficiency than most other countries. Increased focus on food safety is ensured in the comments of the Centre Party. One thing that is not mentioned is soil protection. We can't keep building up our food soil. It is not safe from a food safety point of view.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1271	The government is working together with social security and preparedness, and it sees social security and preparedness as a chain – a wholeness in which the actors are to be seen in the context. The most important policy documents in the field of preparedness are the follow-up to the report of the 22nd July Commission, Report. St. 21 for 2012–2013 Terrorism preparedness, Prop. 151 S for 2015–2016 Strength and sustainability – Long-term plan for the defence sector, Meld. St. 10 for 2016–2017 Risk in a safe society, and Meld. St. 38 for 2016-2017 ICT Security – a shared responsibility. The DSB's assessment of the future civil protection and civil protection measures currently under consideration in the Ministry will become an important document. Preparedness is strengthened and coordination is improved, including: through near-police reform and increased promises, which gives us a strong police force. The government has introduced new requirements for the follow-up of exercises and events. ICT security in society is being strengthened. A key objective is to strengthen the national capability to detect as well as to manage digital attacks. The preparedness for infectious diseases and hazardous substances is also strengthened. We are better equipped to meet challenges of elective extremism and terror. A dedicated program to further develop the totals defense is in place. The Programme shall be finalised in 2020. More knowledge, better guidance and new digital tools for municipalities should limit the damage caused by serious natural events. The law has been reviewed and adapted, including: has been recently revised by the Security Act. The focus is on food security and food supply. We've never produced more food than we do now, and self-sufficiency has increased in the last five years since it was reduced in the eight red-green years. We strengthen all parts of the social security chain with new material. Fire preparedness is strengthened by new two-year vocational education in Tjeldsund. The emergency centre at Taraldrud is under planning, and as the Council of State pointed out, the total defense of this cottage will be tested – and it will give us invaluable experience. There is increased awareness of the importance of good prevention and preparedness at all levels. I am sure that the path we have taken, by building a stronger defence and a better national preparedness, is right, but we are not in goal. Work on social security and preparedness is a continuous but also a long-term work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1290	It is very surprising – after all the good words in the vote and after all that has been said in the debate today – that it should not be possible to have a majority to set up a full-time emergency commission. For everyone in the group, it seems obvious that it's a very good intention, everyone in the group seems obvious that it would have been very reasonable to see things in the context. Nevertheless, it is not a proposal to reduce such a type of Commission – a Commission that could have provided us with a good knowledge base for important assessments to be made here in the Chamber, a Commission that could have given us an overall approach to many of the preparedness challenges that we see in different areas. But that's not possible. There are good intentions to kill a good suggestion. The question is why. Why is it necessary to turn away from such a good proposal? I think the reason for this is that here are the government parties and the Christian People's Party thinking like that: how can we turn away from something that is suggested by others – something that may be good, but that we won't do when we haven't suggested it? When we haven't figured that out, we're not going to vote for it either. So simple I think it almost is. At least they sound like excuses, many of the posts that have been here today. So first of all, one has to wait for the NATO exercise to be done. Then wait for the reform work in the justice sector to be completed. And then there are some people who say that you should wait until the total defense programme is completed in 2020. Then we have come so far that I expect one to have found that one should also wait until the next long-term plan for the defence is completed, and then we are over for the next major period again. So I really think this is about one not enjoying any other parties than their own to get a majority for a proposal that really everyone in hope seems to be good. I think that's a little sad. I think it's a little sad for Storting's part that we can't be involved in such a proposal, which I think is most necessary also in view of the challenges we see in the various areas. Now we are in the middle of a situation where there is a great deal of uncertainty about civil protection in North Norway, a great deal of uncertainty about the emergency functions related to life and health in North Norway – the aviation ambulance situation. It is a debate that illustrates the need to also have a full-blown preparedness commission that can see this on a holistic basis and also provide us with more knowledge of both civil and defence preparedness, and not least the relationship between these two.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1301	Societal preparedness is one of the most important things we have to secure our citizens. Preparedness is about planning and rehearsing ahead of adverse events, so that the damage is minimised when something first happens. It is essential that we ensure at all times that we have an overall societal preparedness in place, and that it facilitates good interaction between the various response actors. The most serious criticism of the Gjørv Commission after July 22 was that the resources did not find each other, and it is now almost 20 years since the preparedness was fully reviewed. We all know that the social development of the 20 years has gone on record, and that we are still facing new threats. It is important to have an up-to-date look at our total preparedness that we, as a society, can provide as much preparation as possible for a wide range of events. There may be terrorist incidents, military threats or threats that threaten the security of the state and the general security of all citizens, or there may be natural disasters, blackouts or polluted water that create challenges for people in everyday life. For example, large parts of South Norway experience problems in these days after an unusually large spring flood that has caused many people to move out of their house, they have lost power, they do not have clean water. What happens if such a disaster results in a lack of access to food or vital medicines? These are important emergency issues. Our digital society has also created a number of new challenges that need to be addressed. The size of the issue recently addressed the ICT security message, which was the first of its kind – finally. The review we had then showed more than anything else that we become vulnerable when the world is digitised in every way – from how we communicate with each other to daily, how the health care system operates and to infrastructure. These challenges need to be addressed in the context of other societal challenges. Because the centre party does not seem to be able to make a pass to put down a total emergency commission today, we have promoted some so-called solutions mentioned in the draft representative. Among other things, it is important to look at the extent to which there has been a change in the role-sharing between the police and the other emergency situations as a result of the structural changes in the police reform and the new PLIVO instruction. It is important to clarify the preparedness consequences of such changes which have led to or may lead to them in the long term. Emergency Norway is made up of many different actors. The Central Party believes that a comprehensive preparedness Commission should now be brought down and must monitor and assess how the full resources of society can be used as best as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1315	We saw the need for such a total review of the response in Question Time the last time, when the Senter Party challenged the Minister of Justice on standby to tie to ambulance airsacks. He couldn't answer it, because it wasn't his constitutional responsibility. I have a suspicion that if we had challenged the Health Minister on total preparedness, he wouldn't have answered it because it wasn't his constitutional responsibility. There is a need to see things in a broader context. I am busy that food preparation should also be included in such a total sink on standby. When we worked in Stortinget with the emergency storage of food grain, in the process until then, there were also many arrangements that had to be made, and things one had to wait for. The main problem was that the government created a government plan statement that the same thing that happened in the world would trade go its way. It wasn't possible to get around, because it was in the government's plans. The center party believes that readiness is about planning for the undisputed. Here we see a government that underpins the formalism of bureaucracy rather than realism in reality, and that is regrettable. When we discuss soil protection, it is an important matter, it is claimed, but in reality we see that it is only important until it collides with other societal purposes. Then one often sees that soil protection has to give way. The ability to produce food today and in the future is an important part of our preparedness. The Central Party wants food preparedness and agricultural policy to be integrated into a broader context, not only to feed the population today, but also as part of our overall preparedness. How can we have an agriculture in the whole country? How can we organize agriculture so that we can get ready? I also think it is sad that a number on Stortinget are turning their thumbs down for a total emergency commission today, with a lot of excuses about what needs to come first. It basically reminds me a little bit about Albert Åbergs just, should just, just. This is such an important matter that we should do it now, and I hope that the majority will support the proposal of the Central Party in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1328	Let's take an example: a snowy winter and cool spring makes large parts of our country vulnerable to flooding and slipping. So the local authorities' preparedness has and will be put to the test in the future, and it is really time to get the emergency plans out of the drawer and on the meeting table. Well-implemented planning work is important to succeed in ensuring life, health and infrastructure in municipalities and in other communities. Cooperation with the voluntary sector could also be important for municipalities, for example: succeed in a hectic effort in an emergency situation. How could this have been solved better? Could cooperation have been strengthened? These and other issues would be a natural part of the work of a total preparedness committee. We have behind us a Easter where the Red Cross had more than enough to do in rescue missions and search operations. Voluntary action contributes to the security of all those who use nature and relieves, inter alia: health care, police and fire services with efforts they are not manned for, what we regard daily as part of the preparedness. However, Red Cross and other non-governmental organisations are not only important in mountain search and rescue; they are also important partners in the local preparedness work for which municipalities are responsible for planning. The responsibilities of municipalities for the preparation of emergency plans are laid down in a national regulation on municipal emergency response obligations. Thus, municipalities must be prepared to deal with adverse events by having a plan for the municipal crisis management, warning service, evacuation plan and, in particular, a resource overview of actors, including for example: Civil defence, which has a role in municipal crisis management. How municipalities have been able to meet these requirements could be a question that the Total Emergency Commission could address. I think most municipalities have their emergency plans, but the question is how operational they are. Are emergency drills being carried out? Have municipalities secured cooperation partners to meet challenges in critical phases? I do not want to conclude, but believe that there should have been a commission that could look at this together with the total preparedness. The security of citizens is, after all, one of the fundamental tasks of the big society. The centre party has submitted a proposal to the Stortinget to set up a total emergency commission. I believe that there is a need for a broad review of national and local preparedness, and there are, after all, large parts of the Stortinget that believe it, but obviously not enough. The challenge is how society’s total resources can best be used to provide greater security in different crisis situations. This is about more than defence, it's about more than just the police, it's about more than just flood and tailoring and health care – it's about how all these resources interact. If we are to succeed when the crisis arises, we need to know what kind of problems each of us is going to solve, and not least we need to practice together. What is the status of that work today in the various departments? A commission like that could have looked at it. The better the lead was than after the quick, says the saying. The Storting could now have chosen to live up to it by putting down such a commission. Instead, one chooses to refer to piecewise and shared preparedness planning and reports, or one wants to wait until things are partly clarified, and not see everything in context. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1345	In the last five years, Norwegian society has been subject to a number of reforms — many of them with the common denominator that they have centralising features. Most of the reforms are also underway without a prior analysis of what society needs, and what the consequences of the reforms will have, both individually and not least collectively. In an overall emergency picture, limits and tasks are now changed at record speed. It was said that one should clean up, but the answer so far seems to be at least as diverse and untransparent as it was before the reforms were implemented. There is no doubt that the time we are living in, and the perspective of the future makes the preparedness picture more inconspicuous and challenging – it is changing climate, international unrest, terrorist problems, food and water, and many other factors that affect the overall picture. The proposal of the Government Parties, the Right and the Advance Party, to consider setting down a Commission once important reform work in the justice sector has been completed must be misunderstood. Overall preparedness is not limited to the justice sector, and the Minister of Justice and Security illustrated well in the Wednesday Question Time, when he failed to answer questions about ambulance traffic in Finnmark because it was outside his responsibility. That's absolutely right. The preparedness work is much wider, and therefore it is frightening that government parties will not be part of an emergency commission. Total preparedness is far-reaching and, in order to provide a better basis for shaping the future Emergency Norway than today's arbitrary reforms provide, the proposal should be included. It is interesting that, in my work as rapporteur, I was previously assigned to be responsible for the overall preparedness of the municipality. It was a readiness that fanned wide. We were obliged to carry out regular risk and vulnerability analyses, and every four years we were to roll out the municipality's emergency plan. It would have been appropriate for the government to make the same demands on itself as the top responsible for the national preparedness as it actually imposes on the country's municipalities. In the municipalities we are concerned about the people's preparedness. We are concerned about how we can take care of the overall picture – everything from food security to water and sewerage, to defence, security and the bruises. It would have been wise for the Stortinget, with all the good intentions that lie in the setting, to stand behind the proposals of the Center Party today to look at the total readiness of this light.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1362	I thought the point of the previous speaker, that this is about many more parts than just the justice sector, was very good. It's all about understanding what total preparedness is. As I said, I very much agree with Marit Arnstad, who pointed out that the debate shows that everyone is for all the good intentions. But what the government really has in mind is quite inexhaustible, I think. In a way, you can interpret it as being all of us, but they don't really want to support it, because it's a proposal from the Center Party. It's about to think that a person doesn't really want this -- not a commission right now to see the government in the flashcards. There is also a possible analysis I would like to draw from this debate. I must also say that it is striking how the involvement of the government party is absent in this debate. It also says a little bit about how important this is to them. I'm not going to do anything to prolong the debate very much. But what Jenny Klinge records when it comes to the fire and rescue situation and the PLIVO instruction that several people have pointed out is also very busy. That is why we have been instructed in Stortinget, in the previous period and in the present period, that we should get a separate staging message for the fire and rescue kit. I hope that the new Minister of Justice will take with me, because what I think would be a good way to get through the special fire and rescue situation. In the end, when it comes to a comprehensive threat assessment: in the line change instead, I got a feeling that the Council of State actually agreed that it might have something for itself. I hope we can come back to that at a later date. I would definitely encourage that. A comprehensive threat assessment processally and analytically would, of course, have been a great strength for preparedness, a common assessment that is not just pieceful and shared. The Labour Party will resume that thread at a later date.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1371	Nor shall I contribute to extending the debate too much. It has been an exciting debate, and I must say it is almost such that I appreciate the Central Party's commitment to readiness. I'm actually wondering, how has that engagement been for the five years that have gone by? With all the work in Stortinget, which the government has done, analysed and got on the table, all the recommendations that have come from various disciplines – what kind of setting has the Center Party had for the recommendations that form the basis for the work that the government is doing now? I've understood that the Center Party may have put itself a little bit on the sideline of this, and that they have actually had their own conclusions, which have not gone through. In fact, I wonder a little about what is the motive behind the representative proposal that is underlying today. A lot of work is being done. It's holistic. It's long-term. There is a good and collective preparedness work that has now been undertaken by the government. I hope that we can continue with that, and then I think that when the time comes, we will consider a comprehensive emergency commission and see if there is any hole and missing that should be sealed in the process.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1380	I can't help but answer an attack as direct as it is from the Right. First of all, there has been a good debate here today – not so many participants outside the Central Party, but there has been a very good debate, in and out. But when, at the end, questions are asked in the last article about where the Central Party has been in the various debates about preparedness over the last few years, I must be allowed to stress that we have been very active in all those debates, but there can't be a condition attached to being active that one should agree with the government. It is not that one is involved in the debates if one agrees with the government, but one stands on the sideline if one does not agree with the government. No, that's not how it is. In these debates, there will, of course, be different starting points, different answers and different opinions, and the Central Party has been very active in all the debates concerning both civil and defence preparedness. But we have said quite different solutions than the government, because we believe that many of the government's solutions in those areas are incredibly poor and little thought, and we also see that they create great difficulties around the country. Police reform is a very clear example of this, in which one weakens both the preventive role and the present role of the police in Norwegian districts. What one has seen in the ambulance case in North Norway now is an example of a health minister from the Right who stands and washes his hands, and a total emergency minister who is not quite able to understand that he is also responsible for the total preparedness associated with the air ambulance in North Norway. And while you've done a whole bidding process -- yeah, almost scandalous in the way you've done it, because a simple thing is in a situation where life and health are at stake in large parts of North Norway. Today’s proposal of the Centre Party was an open invitation to achieve an overall approach to overall preparedness, to improve the knowledge base for overall preparedness. We notice that the government's response is simply to try to get away from the whole problem by apologizing for the one and the other that comes that one can't bring down that kind of commission yet – at least not as long as it's the Central Party that has stood for the proposal. It is sad that you have to deal with such a good proposal in such a bad way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1389	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1405	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, a reply be given to replies from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note. The first speaker is Sigbjørn Gülsvik, who is given the floor for the case-speaker Oddvar Igland.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1416	I would like to start by thanking the Committee for a good cooperation on a major and important matter. Action against money laundering and terrorist financing is particularly important. I think most people can agree on the overall objectives associated with it. At the same time, it is a demanding field. There is a high cost of complying with such legislation for enterprises and for the public, and difficult barriers must be created between privacy and individual rights. In addition to the fourth EU Directive on money laundering and international recommendations to Norway from groups against money laundering, the FATF, there are two public statements on this matter. The Committee has also held a hearing on the matter. In some areas, the proposal in the proposal differs from the government’s recommendations in the public sector. In some areas, the government has also chosen other solutions after the consultation round. It has been important for the Committee to clarify why one of the governments has chosen the solutions that you have taken. A number of questions have therefore been asked by the Committee to the Ministry in the course of its work on the matter. The Committee shall, in the light of those replies, and in particular: input from hearing bodies made clarifications — in some areas different from what was available in the government’s proposals. I'll briefly go through some of that. Norway has strict legislation on money laundering, which is leading in the international context and which ensures that Norway and the Norwegian financial industry maintain integrity, trust and reputation. At the same time, it is important that legislation has been designed in such a way as to minimise bureaucracy and the most efficient use of resources, to ensure good competition and not least to ensure that smaller actors can both enter and remain in the market. The Committee is committed to ensuring legal certainty. The rights of individuals such as citizens, customers and professionals must be subject to a high level of attention. It is important that the relevant supervision of the financial supervision, the Board of Supervisors for legal activities and the Lottery Authority should be provided with sufficient resources and competences to follow up the new money laundering legislation. It must be easy to identify the situations in which the law applies. The Committee shall have, inter alia: clarification of the scope of the law applicable to lawyers. In the case of non-resident payment enterprise agents, the majority of the Committee supports the government proposal, while a minority supports the Whitewashing Law Committee in order to make them fully subject to reporting obligations. The Committee has noted that non-life insurance is included in the proposed new law. However, the Committee is open to a solution whereby specific rules may be laid down that identity confirmation may be postponed to any time of payment after the police, and asks the government to take care of it. The Committee is also concerned that changes to the laws should not create adverse consequences for companies providing maritime damage insurance in an international market and asks the government to provide for specific regulation of such companies by regulation. The Committee calls on the Ministry to ensure that a through-leaders clarify how reporting agents are to deal with specific situations where the requirements of the Data Protection Act may conflict with the proposed regulations of the Raising Act. All citizens of a modern society have both the need for and the right to a bank account. The possibility for banks to reject customer relationships should be very limited and should be an alternative to speak only after other measures have been exhausted. The Committee agrees with the Ministry that reporting agents, rather than liquidating or rejecting the customer relationship, should be expected to manage the risk to such customers, and that one looks at the possibility to liquidate parts of the customer relationship rather than the whole relationship. Otherwise, the Committee considers that a major bank should have greater capacity to manage such risks than smaller banks, and that this should also have an impact on the circumstances in which it can liquidate or reject client relationships. The Committee has also promoted legal certainty for board members and others who can become personally responsible under the law. It is important to facilitate the building of competences and to ensure that their requirements are very clear – in order to avoid unreasonable risks to persons with such positions and positions. I would like to make this point in the vote that the Central Party has promoted together with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1444	The representative of Sigbjørn Gülsvik has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1449	Combating and preventing money laundering is an effective and important tool in the fight against economic crime. Unfortunately, there is no doubt that money laundering from criminal acts is a major social problem. There are many ways to whitewash dividends, both simple and more refined, but the trend we see is that methods are becoming increasingly advanced, implemented by professional administrators, where multi-part financial transactions make it harder to follow the money, while concealing ownership. For example, the purchase and sale of cryptocurrency is a relatively new method, making traditional, traceable bank transfers unnecessary. This is part of the market that has identified specific challenges to manage and regulate. The increasing professionalisation of money laundering also leads to more extensive use of intermediaries, such as auditors and lawyers. It is usually done through abuse of the banking system or other legitimate business. In order to avoid these incentives for the placement, concealment and integration of dividends from criminal offences, good guidance is necessary. There is a need for good information on legislation – a legislation that is in the forefront of development. It hasn't been like that. The rules were overripe for improvement. Three times Norway’s efforts against money laundering and terrorist financing have been seen under FATF lupa. The 2014 report criticises Norwegian practices and legislation on several points, and updating of the legislation has been imperative. Advanced money laundering is often cross-border. It involves financial infrastructure in different jurisdictions, and it is only possible to fight this down with international cooperation. Then we have to have a common regulatory framework, and this proposition, which implements the fourth EU Whitewashing Directive and the recommendations of the international cooperation group, takes us in that direction. Economic crime is undoubtedly a threat to the integrity of the financial system, the field of economic activity and the rule of law. For this reason, it is good that the vote, put forward by a committee that is essentially a joint one, is the result of thorough, good work, which I thought the case-speaker from the Centre Party should have the honour of taking the initiative. However, in some individual areas there are divergent views, such as: on who is required to be subject to reporting. I think it's going to be worth living with, as long as all the parties share the same view of reality and the challenges, and have the nerve to get an up-to-date code in place, a code that we hope will help fight crime in many areas. There is now a great deal of responsibility on the government to implement the legislation, to ensure that it is enforced, and to provide relevant actors with the necessary and good information and guidance.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1464	In addition to being an important part of society’s overall fight against crime and terrorism, efforts to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing are important to protect business from abuse by criminal actors. The legislative proposal implements a large part of the fourth EU directive on money laundering in Norwegian law and proposes new, up-to-date rules to prevent money laundering, terrorist financing and related crime. Norway has been a pioneer and has had legislation against money laundering for nearly 30 years. The bill is based on previous Norwegian legislation, but extends the legislation to providers of gambling services. The bill also clarifies the responsibility of agents of non-resident payment companies and supervises them. The law will strengthen the requirements for the implementation of customer actions, studies and reporting and will make clear demands on businesses to carry out risk assessments and adapt their efforts to the risks identified. A whole new provision is made for the imposition of a reportable infringement fee for a breach of the law. This has been called for internationally to contribute to better compliance with legal provisions. Since the law was investigated, there has been a strong growth in virtual currencies, such as: bitcoin. This is part of the financial market that faces specific challenges to regulate. The legislative proposal therefore provides for a regulatory framework for the extension of the money laundering rules to storage services for virtual currency and for the exchange of normal and virtual currency. It also lays down requirements for the establishment of registers containing information on beneficial owners of rights. In the establishment of such a register, the Ministry of Finance will cooperate with the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries to coordinate the information on registered shareholders and beneficial owners of rights and to increase the availability of that type of information. The majority have made some clarifications regarding the scope of the law. As regards the scope of application of lawyers, it is important to distinguish between the situations in which the lawyer performs something for the client and the situations in which the lawyer assists the client. In the case of non-resident paying agents, as I said, an authorisation is provided to oversee these actors, and this means that they are not allowed to escape, as some have expressed concern. As far as non-life insurance is concerned, it is right that that type of insurance should be covered by the law. However, the Committee has been open to the possibility that, in cases of low risk, specific rules may be laid down for deferral of identity confirmation at any time of payment. It has also been important to ensure that legislative changes do not create adverse consequences for companies providing maritime insurance in an international market. This is a service where Norway is a leading global supplier. There are considerations to the effect that such companies should not be fully governed by the law without the consequences being thoroughly investigated. Therefore, the government is asked to lay down specific rules on the obligation of non-life insurance undertakings to implement customer measures, as they already exist, also in the field of maritime insurance. There is little reason to believe that the new anti-money-laundering legislation will incur unreasonable compliance costs and also negative competitive effects. On the other hand, legislation that does not comply with the EU standard could provide the basis for the establishment of less serious actors, with the negative consequences it could have for the industry. The preparation of risk assessments and procedures has clearly established that they are to be adapted to the nature and size of the business. It is important that Norway participates in international work against this type of crime and changes national legislation when the recommendations change. Norway shall not be a haven for criminals to money laundering or terrorist financing. It is important that Norway has strict legislation on money laundering that respects the integrity, trust and reputation of the Norwegian financial industry. The current legislation will contribute to the fight against crime in many areas. Information reported under the Money Laundering Act will also be an important tool in the government’s efforts to combat the crime of working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1485	In a world where money is moved faster and simpler than ever before, good tools and up-to-date laws are important that will contribute as much as possible to preventing money laundering and terrorist financing. The legislative proposal under consideration is, in many areas, a continuation of today’s right, but also addresses the necessary constraints and adaptations. At the same time, there are shortcomings in the Norwegian legislation, as pointed out by the Financial Action Task Force, FATF, in an evaluation of Norway and Norwegian anti-money laundering, terrorist financing and funding of proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, from 2014. It also implements the fourth EU directive on money laundering. The scope of the Whitewashing Act is now also extended to games service providers, but with the permission of granting exemptions following a risk assessment. Rules on customer action, the storage of information and documents and the obligation to study and report are continued as before, while adapting the rules more closely to current challenges. For example, the rules on simplified customer measures will no longer provide exemptions from the requirement to implement customer measures, as is the general rule today, but only a relaxation of the general requirements. The rules on politically exposed persons, known as PEPs, are extended to the assessment of whether relevant persons other than the customer are PEPs, e.g. the beneficial owner of the right and persons with right of disposal over an account. Furthermore, the definition of PEP is extended to persons holding higher positions, etc. also in Norway. Today, only such positions abroad or in international organisations are covered. A specific provision on the identification of real rightholders is proposed in the chapter on customer actions, rather than regulating it as part of the definition of real rightholders. The aim is to clarify to reporting agents what they are expected to obtain from information as part of the implementation of customer actions. Furthermore, it is also proposed to clarify the obligation to understand the customer's ownership and control structure, where we are talking about customers who are not natural persons. The study obligation threshold is reworded in order to better reflect the expectation of the initiation of investigations, nor are only transactions to trigger the investigation obligation anymore. Studies shall be carried out in the future as long as there are circumstances that may indicate that funds are linked to money laundering or terrorist financing. Furthermore, the obligation to supply information to Ecocrim on request is clarified. The international approach to money laundering and terrorist financing is to ensure that work is risk-based. This is the case both in FATF’s revised recommendations of 2012 and in the fourth EU Laundering Directive. The risk-based approach is not new in either the recommendations or the fourth Directive, but has gained a significantly larger place than in the past. The Progress Party will underline the importance of Norway’s having strict legislation on money laundering leading in the international context in order for the Norwegian financial industry to maintain its integrity, trust and reputation. At the same time, it is important to have legislation designed to minimise red tape and maximise resource efficiency. In this context, it is important that legislation does not contribute to the reduction of competition in relevant markets, and particular attention should be paid here to the fact that legislation should not contribute to the unfair competitive advantage of larger operators compared to smaller operators. We will also highlight the importance of the individual's rights as a citizen, customer and professional, although this may lead to some increase in resource use. All residents of Norway have both the need for and the right to a bank account. This is actually part of the social mission of the banks, and it is therefore positive that the bank's ability to reject customers will still be very limited. We have to be able to expect the banks to manage this risk in a good way. We have to do our part to prevent Norway from becoming a haven for criminals. We've seen serious acts of terrorism in recent years with the loss of innocent civil lives and things that have revealed great-style money laundering. We have to do what we can to prevent, and the bill is in that way a very important tool.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1510	I would also like to thank the rapporteur and the committee for their good cooperation in this work. There is no doubt that this is an important topic. The representatives Gülsvik and Holen Bjørdal have gone through both comments and suggestions that SV also agree with, so I am not going to go further into it. I would like to highlight another important measure against money laundering and increased crime that is not covered by this bill, and which I hope the Minister of Finance will be able to comment on. It concerns the establishment of a public register of beneficial owners of rights. The size has decided to introduce it, and the fourth money laundering directive requires us to implement it. We have requested the implementation from SV for a while now. It was not connected with this law. Therefore, it would have been interesting if the Minister of Finance could comment on its progress, the dialogue between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Industry. I would also like to ask, in the light of the fact that the Whitewashing Act Committee, when they looked at this, made a recommendation that it should not be public, which is contrary to what the Stortinge has decided, whether it is possible to comment on whether the department is working on the basis of the Stortinge's decision. As I said, this is an important contribution to combating money laundering and terrorist financing, so it is a theme that we, on the SV side, will both bring forward and follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1519	I would also like to thank the case rapporteur for very good and thorough work on a very important matter, and I agree with his comments and comments. My comment really only concerns the end of page 10 and the beginning of page 11 of the cancellation, related to non-life insurance. The representative Rodum Agdestein also pointed out that there are some sectors or companies that are at low risk of money laundering and terrorist financing, and then it must also be possible to be a little more flexible with regard to legislation. That is why I am very pleased that there is a unanimous committee that agrees that in Norway we have a world leading industry in maritime damage insurance, which also operates internationally and is therefore in danger of being out-competitive if we make too strong demands. I am pleased that the committee points out that a person wants a separate regulation in his own regulations of those companies. Then really my comment is that I also expect them to be included in that work, because I think they have important input that they could not at least have expressed in the hearing. I really expect – and it also says in the vote – that there will be a thorough investigation, and in that work I think they can make important arguments, because this is an industry that is very concerned with combating money laundering and terrorist financing. So it's doing a lot of good work, and I'm afraid that if it's not done in the right way, the consequence might be that an international just weakens the work. Therefore, my call to the Council of State is that, in the important work to be done before the adoption of regulations, there must be good dialogue.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1530	In the proposal, the government proposes a new law on money laundering. The legislative proposal implements a large part of the EU’s fourth Whitewashing Directive and follows up the Financial Action Task Force, FATF, its recommendations and criticisms against Norway from 2014. The government does not want Norway to be a ‘freedom’ for crime or criminal money laundering. Terrorism actions shall also not be financed through abuse by Norwegian companies. Robust rules are therefore necessary to detect and prevent money laundering and terrorist financing, adapted to international and Norwegian requirements. The Government proposes to build on the current Norwegian legislation, but with the necessary updates adapted to international regulatory development. There's reason to stress that there's a lot going on in this area right now. Among other things, in the EU this spring amendments have been adopted to the fourth Whitewashing Directive, while in the FATF there are ongoing discussions on regulatory development. The individual proposals in the legislative proposal are well summarised in this debate. I want to focus on the areas where I have received questions from the Committee. The minority of the Committee believes that the new rules need to be followed up with sufficient resources and updates. The government is following regulatory developments internationally and will continuously assess the necessary changes in Norwegian legislation. Agents of non-resident payment enterprises are currently subject to the rules of the Money Laundering Act. They should also be subject to new legislation on money laundering. What the government is proposing is a regulatory body to be able to clarify the rules applicable to the agent and what rules are instead being resolved at company level. In addition, clear rules on the competence of the Financial Supervisory Authority to supervise the compliance of agents with Norwegian law on money laundering shall be ensured. Non-life insurance has received some attention from the Storting consultation and the Committee's suspension. It is understandable that all the time there are few countries in the world that have been subject to claims by non-life insurance companies for measures against money laundering and terrorist financing. I would like to stress that non-life insurance companies have been subject to the legislation on money laundering since the 1990s, but with simpler rules than others. In my view, such less restrictive rules may also be continued in the new legislative proposal, as the Committee asks the government to do. I have recorded that the minority of the Committee has been concerned that guidance and risk assessments are made available to the actors. I would like to point out that in practice a great deal of publicly available guidance is being developed and relevant risk assessments are being published. This is done both internationally by FATF, at European level by the EU and at national level by various relevant actors. Dialogue and cooperation with the private sector in this regard are positive and should continue. There has also been contact with the private sector during the work on current guidance from the Financial Supervisory Authority. The minority of the Committee is concerned about the impact of the bill on competition. This legislation is not new, but has been part of Norwegian law since the beginning of the 1990s. Moreover, legislation that is not developed in line with international standards could provide the basis for the establishment of less serious actors, with negative effects on the market. In the interests of smaller operators, the essential requirements of the law for the preparation of risk assessments and procedures shall be adapted to the nature and size of undertakings. An overall committee recommends that a simple and unbureaucratic appeal procedure be provided for those who do not receive a bank account, for example: through the Financial Complaints Board. The financial complaint addresses issues between consumers and financial undertakings. I have no reason to believe that this scheme is not working. For other disputes, we have both Conciliation Councils and General Courts in Norway, where disputes are to be dealt with. The establishment of other, specific complaints bodies for non-consumers does not appear to be necessary. The representative Kaski asked questions about the register of real rights holders. To that I can just briefly say that I have an ambition to make suggestions on this before the summer. Finally, with a new law on money laundering, Norway and the Norwegian authorities will be better equipped to detect, prevent and prosecute criminals who want to abuse business for money laundering, terrorist financing and related crime. It's important for the government to put these rules in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1558	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1564	I would like to thank the Council of State for its contribution and for clarifying some of the areas that the Committee has highlighted in its position. I would like to follow up on what the representative, Mr. Ropstad, said in his article. Especially in non-life insurance and maritime insurance, criticism of non-participation has been raised both in consultation and in subsequent letters, that one was unknown to proposals that came, and concerns about the consequences for its industry. That is why I would like to repeat the question raised by the representative Ropstad. With regard to the regulatory work we are about to do, there is a need to ensure sufficient involvement of stakeholders, so that we have a regulatory framework that is well adapted to the industry in question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1571	As I said in my post, I have noticed the attention that non-life insurance has received in the committee's proceedings, including the issue of maritime insurance companies, and we will, of course, follow up what the committee has pointed out in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1576	Thank you for the answer from the Minister of Finance. It is good news that the bill comes before summer. I wanted to follow up on what goes on the public link to this, because the central thing in the decision from Stortinget in 2015 is that it should be a public register. The United Kingdom now introduces a law on such matters as: implies that there must also be open ownership registers applicable to, for example: islands like Cayman Islands. It is interesting to follow up on international developments in this area. I really want to repeat my question: Do you initially work after Storting's decision on public registers, or do you follow the recommendation of the Whitewashing Law Committee, that it should be a closed register?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1583	I don't think I want to say much more now than what I said in my main post, namely that we're working on this in the department right now. We have plans to present this before the summer and are, of course, also in close dialogue with the Ministry of Food and Fisheries on the occasion of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1588	The cord shift is over. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1606	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be a possibility of replying to replies from members of the Government. In addition, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1617	Let me first thank the Committee for a very good cooperation in this matter. I would also like to thank the proposer for raising an important topic for debate. As the rapporteur, I am very pleased that there is a broad majority behind the recommendations in the vote. I refer you to the representative proposal referred to in the case to investigate and show how a Norwegian tax on value creation can be introduced in Norway from multinational companies with a digital earnings platform. Company taxation rights are distributed among countries through bilateral fiscal agreements based on international standards. Countries where companies have a physical presence and an economic activity beyond a certain level have tax rights. These international tax rules are under pressure. This is due, inter alia, to: little adapted to the reality of today with digital and technology-based companies with little or no physical presence and who also do not sell physical products or services that can be clearly linked to a country. It is considered unreasonable that very profitable global companies may have large revenues in a market, while only a small part of the profits can be taxed there. This is not a new phenomenon, but the extent of such transactions via digital platforms has increased sharply in recent years as a result of technological developments. Aggressive tax planning and inadequate taxation of multinational companies in countries where the same companies are physically present have also contributed to the increased pressure on current international legislation. It is unfortunate that in this way taxation can be achieved at levels far below what can be called normal tax values, income from corporation tax will be lower than they could have been, and national companies may lose out in competition. There is a broad consensus in the Committee on Problem Descriptions and the intention of the proposal. At the same time, there is ongoing work in both the EU and the OECD to find international solutions related to the taxation of multinational companies. The Committee therefore postponed its decision on the matter pending the presentation of the OECD report on the taxation of companies with digital business models, a report which came on 16 March this year. Similarly, the Commission’s proposals for new tax rules for digital companies were introduced. The OECD report is based on the fact that values are to be taxed where they are created, and countries agree to both look at new rules on how tax law should be distributed among countries and to find common solutions by 2020. The OECD report does not recommend the imposition of a temporary turnover tax. The EU Commission has proposed that substantial digital presence should grant country tax rights in line with physical presence and has, pending an international consensus, proposed a temporary turnover tax of 3 pst. which shall be targeted at services where user involvement contributes significantly to the creation of value added. However, it is unlikely that the proposals of the European Commission will be adopted in the EU because changes to the tax regimes within which unanimity is required. Other countries, including Sweden and Denmark have argued against interim measures before international agreement is available. I refer to the majority proposals in the vote and assume that the minority itself presents its proposals. Norway should be cautious about introducing specific national tax rules now. The core of the case is to find good international solutions that ensure a fair distribution of tax rights between countries that include multinationals without physical presence. Common solutions will provide for more effective taxation of these companies, reduce the possibility of unfortunate adjustments and possible double taxation, and also provide a greater degree of predictability for companies than if all countries were to introduce their own system. At the same time, there is broad consensus that there is a pressing need to close unfair tax gaps in the international tax system. Norway should therefore intensify international trackside work in the OECD and channels towards the EU and also assess possible temporary tax models. The government is asked to return to Stortinget, by autumn 2019 at the latest, with an assessment of Norway's follow-up to the work carried out in the OECD on the taxation of multinational companies. The majority are concerned about Norwegian business and our key export industries and ask the government to make a broad assessment of the impact of the introduction of a turnover tax similar to that proposed by the EU Commission. Central assessments will then be how such a charge can be designed without conflicting with international tax agreements and the types of digital transactions to be charged, if any.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1640	I would also like to start by thanking the proposer for putting the search light in an important area, and I fully support the intention of the proposal. There is a great strength that there are broad political pluralities behind such matters. I would also like to thank the case spokesperson for a clean and good job in order to get everyone behind the tax settlement, in today's plural comments and in the proposals. The problem of taxing companies that have activities in many countries without being physically present is not new. Google, Apple, Amazon, Microsoft and other global companies live by selling digital services across borders without being physically present in the countries. Adjusting the level of taxation in different countries and taking advantage of it where it is the most favourable means that large amounts of tax are deducted, equal to the amount of the Norwegian oil fund. According to current international tax laws, physical presence is central to taxing foreign companies. It is important to have an effective tax system and international solutions that ensure that multinational companies are taxed and that reduce the possibility of tax-reducing adaptations and also the issue of double taxation. It is important for trust in authorities and institutions and for equal treatment of large multinationals and national companies. The total tax intake, the suppression of tax avoidance and excess migration, has an impact on the sustainability of our welfare society. As the case-speaker said, both in the EU and in the OECD, there has been a concern that the requirements for physical presence for taxing rights and greater emphasis on economic or digital presence will be eased. The goal is to get the Fortress taxed to the company where the Fortress is lit. In Spain they tried to tax Google news, but then Google stopped distribution, and then they were equidistant. Therefore, international, global solutions for happiness are so important that companies do not just move the services out of the country. The European Commission has proposed that substantial digital presence should give countries the right to tax on the same level of physical presence. The Commission has also made a recommendation on the renegotiation of tax agreements so that a fixed operating site also includes substantial digital presence, as well as a temporary arrangement with a turnover tax of 3 pst. A consensus in the EU on such issues may be needed, but it needs to be resolved. Among other things, both Sweden and Denmark have argued against the adoption by the EU of digital tax rules prior to international agreement. And then we have tax havens like Ireland and the Netherlands, which are also part of the EU. Even if a large majority today give the government the order to set up the speed and intensity of this work, I will show that there are many legislative procedures with national measures to protect the Norwegian tax base, among others. the extension of the interest-restriction rule, the strengthening of the rules for each company is at home, the source of taxes on interest and royalty payments and the legalisation of the bypass rule. Nevertheless, I think it is in its place to stress that the majority in Stortinget is very impatient. Greater action is expected. The same excessive debt to get results from the reduced selections, among other things. shall consider whether the disclosure obligation of the tax advisor should be extended. But, as I said, it is not only unproblematic to introduce national specific measures without the distribution and consequences being seen. The Labour Party is concerned that the introduction of a special Norwegian tax now could have a negative impact on Norwegian industry and Norwegian exports. The taxation of global technology companies is primarily about the sharing of taxation rights between countries, and the support and driving role of Norway is important in finding common solutions. With broad political agreement and support for the proposals, there is a great chance that action will be taken. This is a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1659	Let me also begin by thanking the rapporteur and the committee for the good and constructive work they have done on this matter. It's not long since the Storting discussed this issue last time. It was in connection with Kapur's interpellation with the Minister of Finance in February. At that time, representatives from all parties expressed concern about this challenge, given that as a nation we need to ensure that we have a robust tax base that stands for the future, but also a concern for a distorted competition between foreign digital players and digital players at home with physical presence. The same representatives also expressed impatience for the pace to be stepped up in the international forums dealing with these issues, namely the EU, the G20, the OECD or others. And so are we going to do so far today. There is in particular no new issue we are discussing. The size of the store certainly discussed the same issue when mail order sales went off in town. For the issue is in principle quite similar: the companies sell goods and services in a market with little or no physical presence. The difference today is that the scale is so much larger both in industry and in value. The world's largest and most valuable corporations are no longer the sellers of raw materials such as oil or gold, or finished goods. It is those who provide online services and who have large advertising revenue from a number of countries without necessarily having any physical presence in the country from which the ad crowns are collected. The fact that this is a global issue also means that it needs to be solved in global forums. To believe that solving international challenges with peculiar taxes and taxes is at best a derailment. A small national meeting with large international companies cannot be isolated. Had this been easy to solve, it would most likely have been done already, but there are complicated questions. It also shows the hearing of the Committee on this matter. Many actors are concerned about doing something, but few point to concrete measures that are certainly effective. That is why I am pleased that Norway is playing an active role in international work. The implementation of the BEPS cooperation is underway and more than 100 countries are involved. Interest-rate reduction rules and country-to-country cooperation are other examples. These collaborations are asking the majority to continue and strengthen, and I am absolutely sure that the government will follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1676	It is an extremely important topic that is up for debate today, and I would like to pay tribute to the rapporteurs for the proposal and the intention in it. As has been said, earlier this year the Stortinget debated some of the same issues. The fact that one has large global technology companies that can deliver services on a large scale without physical presence is clearly a major challenge for international taxation. It is important that taxation takes place where the value added is. Above all, it is important that taxes are taxed at all. Many of these companies pay a disappearing small proportion of their tax profits — through different mechanisms and gaps in international legislation. This is why it is incredibly important both to have a press on international work and to look at what national measures we can implement. It is about financing our common well-being for the future, it is about ensuring fair competition, and it is not least about ensuring that small and medium-sized companies can safeguard their competitive situation nationally – and not be competitive by international actors with completely different framework conditions. That is why, on the part of the Central Party, we want to support the intention of today's proposal. At the same time, the wording of the proposal makes it unwise to go into the proposals, as they stand, from our point of view. Proposal No. 1 from the Green Party's proposers, the Green Party said that a ‘begs the government to explore different ways of taxing the value creation in Norway from multinational companies with a digital performance platform and to show how such a tax can be introduced in a way that can subsequently be harmonised with an expected equivalent tax regime in the EU’. It is not necessarily an objective that we, on the part of Stortinget, should decide to introduce rules that can be harmonized with rules that we do not even know what will be the outcome of on the part of the European Union. We have to think about what is in Norwegian interest, and we have to design rules according to that. Nor does it make sense, as is stated in proposal No. 2, to set up a ‘temporary model for companies with a digital performance platform’ and to work for it internationally. What we have to work for internationally are permanent rules that can last over time. We may have to have some national measures that are temporary, but the international rules must definitely have a long perspective. I am very pleased that the Committee has agreed on a broad solution that provides a clear marshalling ground for the government to step up its efforts on behalf of Norway. Unfortunately, for a long time the government has been too passive to meet these challenges. In the previous period, one presented a tax communication that was extremely thin in this area. It was through the Stortingen process that one had to take new, concrete action. Afterwards, the Stortinget has had to state on several occasions what happens in the follow-up to the decisions taken in the tax settlement relating to measures against the depletion of tax bases and profit movements. To those who are in the EU making more proposals and that there are proposals on the table we should follow with attention: it is definitely, but unfortunately the processes in the European Union are going very slowly. The EU is not part of the solution in very many contexts, but is part of the problem – both because it is not willing to implement measures that had worked internally in the EU and because one through the EEA Agreement prevents Norway from introducing measures and has ensured that Norway has completed measures that we have had in the past. Norway has, inter alia: have been pressured to change the rules on withholding tax on dividends, and we have had ESA on our necks related to the interest-rate limitation rules in both 2016 and 2017. In conclusion, when one says that we need to look at international measures and be restrained by specific national measures that deplete the tax base, one should at least tackle one very specific matter at once, and that is to remove the 350-kronor limit for online trade from abroad. It is a very concrete example of a spe­cific regulatory framework that helps to deplete the tax base in Norway and jeopardize Norwegian jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1697	I would also like to thank the Committee on this subject for its cooperation. This is probably a theme we'll come back to during this period. Tax evasion is a threat to the Norwegian welfare community. Large multinational companies operate with creative tax adaptation that erodes the Norwegian tax base and represents a significant competitive advantage for companies with foreign ownership, up against Norwegian companies. Let me take a concrete example of this: In 2016, Google Norway officially traded 121.7 million. kr. However, real turnover is estimated to be approximately 2.5 billion. kr. These are revenues not taxed by Norwegian authorities. In total, Google Norway paid 2.9 million. kr in tax in 2016, which may be said to be less than many Norwegian SMEs and service providers have to pay. There are different studies and reviews that look at the extent and level of tax evasion. A recent study from, among others, Gabriel Zucman estimates that multinationals move 45 pst. of its taxable profits in tax havens. This implies about 1 950 billion. kr lost annually. The International Monetary Fund also estimates that the loss may be even greater – 5150 billion. kr annually. This is money that could have been used to build well-being, for better infrastructure, for economic development, and perhaps also for lower taxes on people in many countries. Instead, it is a symptom of an ever-increasing distribution of bias, where wealth and power accumulate on ever fewer hands. This is a problem that has been discussed frequently on this pulpit in recent years, and although there are some things happening, both nationally and internationally, I believe it is important that we recognise here that we are not near to having solved this critical challenge. Here I also want to add that the government has been too passive in this area. Few initiatives have been taken alone by the government, and the processes in progress are very slow. The size has also adopted several measures that take time for the government to implement. I would therefore like to stress that the comment on this position clearly shows that the bulk of the population here wants a more offensive policy against tax evasion. I'm glad we've reached an agreement in some areas. The Storting asks the government, among other things: strengthen the taxation efforts of multinational companies with low physical presence and assess possible models of taxation of companies with a digital performance platform. I look forward to the government returning to Stortinget in the follow-up of this. Nevertheless, in view of the scale of the challenges of tax evasion, I would like us to have seen a much broader consensus that the government needs to prioritise and propose measures that we can do here in Norway, and take several independent international initiatives to combat tax adjustment and profit movements, instead of just waiting for the various ongoing international processes. Indeed, despite the restrictions imposed by both the tax agreements and the EEA Agreement, there is scope for Norway to go beyond today in order to ensure its own tax revenue, to improve the competitive situation of Norwegian companies and to implement and test other instruments that other countries can subsequently implement. When the best, i.e. functioning international agreements on corporate taxation are not feasible, it is necessary to put in place the second best. It is therefore appropriate to start work without delay to assess which measures can be taken unilaterally in Norway. Such an assessment should consider concrete measures such as royalties and licenses tax, digital turnover tax, reverse credit deductions, VAT paid by the platforms and the introduction of a tax model based on the proportion of a company’s profits from Norway. One last important point is openness and information. Norway has been ranked the lowest in the Nordic countries for several years on financial transparency at the Financial Secrecy Index. Therefore, it is also essential that country-by-country reporting be extended to all sectors and that the loopholes in today's regulation be closed. This is also something that almost all hearing bodies last year pointed to the need to implement. In addition, I would like to stress that we need to put in place the public ownership register. I am pleased that, in the last debate we had, the Minister of Finance stressed that it would be presented before the summer, and I would like to remind you once again that the unanimous decision of the Stortinge – including from the government parties – was that it had to be public.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1716	In my first lessons in economics, the teacher raised the question of whether it was possible for a society to survive by the people cutting their hair on each other. The answer was "No" all the time. Now we know that it is possible to make billions without having been close to a case – or for that matter a single physical product. I guess that's why we're here today. A tax system shall be fair and competition must take place on a level playing field for all actors. However, the current system, set up over decades with adaptations, technological change and an ever-changing economy, is not spared the digital everyday life with advanced tax planning and rapid movement of values. The digital economy, not based on traditional production, but rather on ownership and the sale of information, is therefore a challenge for our existing tax system. This applies not only to Norway, but also to our European and international neighbours. If a good thing comes out of the consideration of this representative proposal, there is a reinforced focus on finding international solutions to the issue of taxation of digital enterprises. The vast majority of the parties in the Storting realize that the long-term solution to the problem is international. We cannot solve this challenge overnight alone. I understand that many people want a quick change in today's situation, where, for example. Norwegian actors like Schibsted are going into a bad fight with Facebook and Google because of an out-of-date tax system. Had it existed a quick and good solution, I would also have supported this. Unfortunately, the tax challenges of a digital economy are a complex issue with even more complex possible solutions. We have to have ice cream in our stomachs to handle these. The future Norwegian jobs will be linked to the digital economy. That's why I'm concerned that we don't create demons from international technology companies that want to invest in Norway. It is clear that they, like everyone else, have to pay their tax contribution. At the same time, we must welcome ourselves. Norway is an ‘open for business’ — so to speak. It's a signal that has to give ring-effects far beyond the digital economy. The Committee agrees that the government should assess national transitional solutions, as it now favours the EU. In such an assessment, one must include the following three challenges: A digital special tax cannot weaken the government's commitment to the digital economy in Norway. Cooperation such as that between the Norwegian smart camera manufacturer Huddly and US Google should not be threatened as a result of any transitional solution. A transitional solution, as in the EU, must not give an incentive to Norwegian digital companies not to dare to grow out of fear of exceeding a turnover limit that would lead to increased tax pressures. Last, but not least: one must not find a solution that leads to spinning. When the OECD calls for the EU solution to have a ‘negative impact on the overall welfare of an economy’ and taxpays, we in Norway must take it seriously. No one earns on a shrinked tax base. I think the government has taken the challenge of finding international tax solutions in this complicated field in a good way. It is not a simple work that stands before us, but in the long term, this is where we need to find lasting solutions that do not damage Norwegian digital investment. A poorly thought-out national solution would not replace such an international consensus.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1743	Thank you very much to the proposer for addressing a very important matter. The interesting thing about the proposal itself is that it will be extremely crucial to find good solutions to this issue when one knows that very many of the big businesses in the future are going to have less physical presence than they have today. It's not just Norway that depends on it, but the whole world community depends on it. A big fight in e.g. Combating poverty is to enable the poorest countries to obtain tax income, because they depend entirely on being able to build the institutions and become independent in this way. But it is also important for Norway, because one should be able to maintain well-being, and we know that there are already large amounts of money being shipped out of Norway that should have been taxed. There is also an important competitive aspect here, because we know that when multinational companies can compete in Norway on much better terms, it will mean that there are jobs in Norway — and tax revenues in Norway — that disappear. The majority of the tax reform was clear on the importance of country-by-country reporting, and it is extremely important that this is followed up in a good manner. But it is also important that the question of the multinational companies that have little physical presence is included, and that one has a thorough job on it. I would also like to thank the rapporteur here, who has done a very thorough job, and who has contributed to the fact that there is a rather unanimous committee behind the vote. After all, success in international cooperation is crucial to many people, and Norway must be an offensive contributor and promoter in order to find good solutions. That is why I am very pleased that the committee agrees that giving a marshall to the government to significantly strengthen its efforts and also look at solutions for how to do things in Norway. I think that is important in an international perspective, but it is also important for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1754	There have been some eventful months here on Stortinget. I've learned a lot about how to work to get an impact on policies you want to implement, when you're one against 168. As expected, it's not quite easy, even for a strong one-man group. But I still can't stop wondering how much resistance there is in this room – even against a proposal to investigate obvious political, concrete alternatives to unfair conditions that are widely debated in society. From the debate so far today, it is clear that most people in this room agree on the problem description: we have a new economic reality that is about to materialise, large digital platforms that concentrate on turnover and large profits, while ultra-fastly shifting revenues and costs around to ensure that the tax becomes as low as possible. Today's international tax system was developed for bricks and steel in the 1900s and no longer matches the modern, Internet-driven global economy. Thus, billions of dollars are collected annually in tax revenue. Facebook's advertising revenue from Norwegian IP addresses was 1.5 billion in 2016. kr. Of these, Facebook was taxed at the base of 500,000 kroner – in other words under 0.1 pst. in taxes. As we look at it, companies send money to low tax countries like Ireland, and when free passengers are allowed – such as Google and Facebook, which avoid taxes – more of the tax burden is left to people most. By sitting on the fence, Norway allows the injustice of the global economy to continue. This is problematic for everyone, not just for us in Norway. Not only does it contribute to greater inequality in the world, but more and more of the income and capital are collected in fewer and fewer hands. At the same time, it weakens our opportunities to continue the welfare state we all want in Norway. Many in this room talk often and loudly and for a long time about that we have to work more and work longer, for today's retirement age should no longer be tomorrow's retirement age, it is said. No, we live longer, and so many want to work longer. But another reason why we have to work longer is that with longer life expectancy our pension system becomes expensive – our pensions cost too much, our tax revenue is too low, and in particular this is the case when the tax system is to be financed more and more by employee income because the companies move around on their profits. But in the future, we cannot rely solely on taxes from employee income to finance our well-being. We're going to have to design the tax system that ensures tax access from the big technology companies as well. The majority in this room want us to work with it through international channels. And ‘read my lips’ – The Greens fully agree that we should do the same. But it remains as in climate policy: if we are to sit and wait for all countries to agree on how we should do this, then the big companies will have continued to grips with the markets – and this is where it happens quickly – while at the same time refraining from financing the common funds around the world. Now everyone sits and waits for each other, and then little happens. Waiting for Godot doesn't make much progress. So we have to work more, both nationally and internationally, not only in the field of climate, but also in the field of taxation. We need to work for a system that ensures a fair distribution of the return between work and capital, while ensuring that large companies also contribute – to our hospitals and schools. That's why I'm actually disappointed that it's not even possible to gather a majority to get a proper investigation in this area, about what the alternative tax models give us of national action spaces to capture some of the profits that are now being collected. It would give a clear picture of what we could actually do, our national space of action. Fortunately, we have many good heads in this country too. Let's use some of them to map how Amazon, Google, Apple, etc. leaving some fair tax credits in Norway and ensuring that they compete on an equal footing with national providers and on an equal footing with other industries. Here it is possible to hit many flies in a taste, but unfortunately the bulk of them don't want to. Then it is better to talk politics and ask for a marshall for non-obligatory assessments in an appropriate way in 2019. I expect that the non-binding assessment will point to the OECD final report in 2020. It's action, it's action! With that, I'll take up our suggestions. And a thousand heartfelt thanks to the President-in-Office for a very good dialogue throughout the process.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1779	The representative Per Espen Stoknes has then drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1785	The representative of Bastholm has asked the government to consider different ways of taxing the value creation in Norway from multinational companies with a digital earnings platform. She has also asked the government to use international cooperation actively to support a common European system of taxation for multinational companies, including a temporary model for companies with a digital performance platform. The representative shows in the proposal that multinational technology companies and companies with digital performance models have had huge growth in the last decade, while existing international tax systems are slightly adapted to digital and technology-based companies. Let me first say that I agree with the representative of Bastholm that taxation of multinational companies and companies with digital income models is an important topic. I also agree that values created in Norway should provide tax revenue in Norway. It is unfortunate that the legislation does not capture revenue from digital income models up to taxation where value creation takes place. Furthermore, it is unfortunate whether multinational companies can achieve lower taxation through tax planning than competing Norwegian companies. There is a debate at international level on the international rules on the allocation of taxation rights adapted to digital income models. These issues are topics both in the OECD and in the EU. Under current international tax rules, physical presence is central to taxing foreign companies active in several countries. Digitisation of the economy means that companies are increasingly able to operate a market without significant presence. It stresses the international rules on which countries should be able to tax revenue. Several have therefore argued for increased tax law for the market country, considering that value creation can take place there even if the physical presence is small. A long-term solution under discussion is whether it should be relaxed on the requirements of physical presence, so that economic presence becomes more important for tax law. In March the European Commission proposed two Directives to strengthen the taxation of multinational companies selling digital services in Europe. The one proposal for a directive will ease the need for physical presence. After the proposal, countries also have tax rights based on digital presence. Companies are considered to have digital presence in a country whose sales, number of users or online contracts exceed a certain number. Such a solution was also mentioned in an interim report to the G20 as a working group in the OECD presented in March. Such a long-term solution requires changes in the tax arrangements. It therefore requires international cooperation and cannot be implemented unilaterally by Norway. The second proposal for a directive proposes a short-term solution with a temporary charge of 3 pst. of the gross turnover of certain digital services, inter alia: sales of advertising. The OECD working group report also discusses the need for temporary measures in the form of a turnover tax. It does not recommend to countries the imposition of such provisional measures. The OECD work shows that there is disagreement both on the need for permanent changes to the international tax code and on the need for temporary measures. There is also no agreement between EU Member States on the imposition of a temporary turnover tax. It is therefore very uncertain whether the proposal will be adopted. Norway is actively participating in the OECD work through the Working Party on Taxation of the Digital Economy. We are also closely following developments in the European Union. I believe Norway’s primary objective must be to contribute to finding agreed solutions internationally. I think that's the key to being able to tax multinational companies effectively, while reducing the possibilities of unfortunate adjustments and cases of double taxation. Common solutions will provide more predictability for tax payers. In addition to helping to find common international solutions, I am concerned that our national legislation is as good as possible to counteract unwanted adjustments and profits from multinational companies. The government works here, among other things. by strengthening the interest-rate limitation rule, we are working on proposals for withholding tax on interest and royalty, and the law of a general bypass rule. The government will continue to work to strengthen our national legislation. In addition, we will continue to actively participate in international efforts to find common solutions for changes to international tax legislation. I believe that short-term solutions, such as: a temporary charge on gross turnover of certain digital services should be coordinated. In my view, Norway should therefore not introduce such an action unilaterally but contribute to assessing solutions agreed upon in the OECD and the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1815	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1820	An expanded country-by-country reporting is one of many proposals that have been addressed to the Committee during the handling of this issue. This measure has been shown to be almost implemented, but there is a need to close the hole in the regulation to make it work. Is the Council of State agreed that there is still a hole in the regulation, and what does the Council of State do to close these holes?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1825	First of all, I think we should be a little proud of how far forward we have been as a nation in both introducing and expanding this type of legislation. We've come a lot further than very many others. But I think we're going to go through all the time and see if there's a gap in the code and the need for improvements, and I'm open to looking at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1830	Governments were involved in some national measures that the government is working with. One of those measures is the interest-rate limitation rule. Then the natural follow-up is to ask when there is something concrete about the government's interest-rate limitation rule. The interest-rate reduction rule was in due course proposed by the red-green government. The tax settlement also ordered that it be extended to include external interest. There has still been no proposal on the table from the government. Now we write in 2018 – when can you expect something concrete from the government to fulfill the tax settlement in that area?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1835	You can expect us to come to Stortinget with it as soon as we're done designing the proposals. I also noticed that the representative Geelsvik in his main post tried to create an impression that the government is almost dragging its legs and is not particularly concerned with working on finding solutions to improve tax agreements in this area. I disagree. We've been active drivers in international forums to find solutions to this. We actively participate in all the workgroups in which we can fit in. We also look at how we can use the national action space we have, to get better solutions in place, and I mentioned several of them in my article.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1840	In this area, the tax communication provided by the government in the previous period was extremely thin, and it was the Stortinget that had to take responsibility by making several concrete proposals on how to follow up. Several of them have been mentioned here: expanded country-by-country reporting and, as I said, the interest-rate reduction rule. Now, several years have passed since the tax settlement, with concrete orders to the government. Then it's to expect the government to come up with a follow-up and have a timetable for when to come back to the Storting, and not just push it out into eternity, as the Council of State did in its previous answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1845	I'm not pushing anything out into eternity. The government has followed up the tax settlement every year with many and, in part, demanding proposals for implementation. We intend to follow up all the other points of agreement that were widely agreed upon in Stortinget. So I just want to distance myself from the claim from the representative Geelsvik that this is an area the government doesn't take seriously, because we do. As I said before, we are working very actively and intensively to put in place a good international code in this area, because it is through what we find answers to what is essentially in the representative proposal that is being discussed in the Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1850	I want to follow up on the last in the answer from the Minister of Finance. Often in these debates it seems that we who call for action here in Norway do not see the importance of international work. Let me underline, let's do that. It is essential to succeed in the international arena and to reach agreement. Therefore, I wonder whether the Minister of Finance can clarify and clarify what it means that Norway is actively participating in the OECD's work on this. What international initiative have we put on the table in those processes, or have we been willing to take initiatives that have come from other countries? It's interesting for Stortinget to know if we're taking our own initiative. I want to add: do we contribute to the UN's tax work, which also includes and involves developing countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1855	Let me first say that I am pleased with the broad commitment of the Stortinget to this question. I'm also glad that there's really not so much disagreement about where we're going. I feel that we quite agree on that. So there's more of a question about how we're going to get it. But I don't think we should attach motives to each other that we don't have. I do not suspect the Storting to not want to see the whole of this, and I hope that I will not be suspected of not being concerned about finding solutions to it. We have taken several initiatives. Among other things, we sit in the working groups working to design the details of this in the OECD. I'm going to OECD meetings at the end of this month and I'm going to actively participate in a debate on just international taxation. That's something I'm above average occupied with. I have been in dialogue with my British colleague on the same issues, also to see if it is possible to press the OECD for them to deliver their report faster than estimated. We have also sent those signals to the OECD from the Norwegian side. So we're following up, taking our own initiative and pushing on to make this happen quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1862	First, I would like to thank the Minister of Finance for a very good and nuanced presentation. We agree very much. When Norway in its time began to develop oil tax agreements with what was then the world’s largest industry, the state was in a similar position and a similar order of magnitude as it is now. With pressure from several actors against Norway, we had to focus on whether we wanted to adapt to the tax system we had at the time, or whether we wanted to continue in the same direction, with the risk of losing significant tax revenues. We chose to adapt that time. In recent times, just since November, both England and France have negotiated agreements with Amazon and Facebook, to make tax revenue fairer. The negotiations ended with companies committing themselves to pay. This can also be done in Norway, but not without political will to do something here as well. Do the councils have it?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1870	As I said in the previous reply, I think there is a broad consensus in this Chamber that we need to find solutions, both internationally and nationally, but within a regulatory development that is seen as reasonable. It could be to shoot ourselves in the foot if we develop a national code that doesn't meet the objective. It will not lead to more taxation. On the contrary, it could weaken consumers in Norway, and I think that would be a bad idea. I think it's a little poor comparison to compare the development of oil tax agreements with what we're now talking about – big global and digital companies. When we designed the oil tax agenda in Norway, it was about local resources in the form of a form of rent tax, which is something quite different from what we are now facing and which requires us to find better international solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1877	I think it's a very good comparison, for the magazine The Economist compared what was once "big oil", to what is today "big data". That's where the great value is created. In the comments on the position we are now discussing on the basis of, we have presented twelve concrete proposals on how to design that type of tax agreement in a very nuanced way. My follow-up question will then be: When you come back in an appropriate way with an assessment during 2019, will we get a proper review of the twelve proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1882	I still do not agree that it is relevant to compare how we tax oil production in Norway with large multinational companies that are not localised. I think we need to find other answers to that. At the same time, I think we're busy finding the right answers. I am not opposed to the fact that the Storting understands the decisions they are making today. I would like to be honoured to do this job as soon as possible. I have said many times from this pulpit that we are working on it specifically and systematically in the Ministry of Finance. We're going to keep following it up and, of course, will give as good a response to the Storting as we can.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1889	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1896	This is in many ways the continuation of a debate that was initiated through an interpellation that I had here in the Storting. There is no doubt that it was already established by both the Minister of Finance and several of the government parties that these are the questions we are concerned about. And there's no doubt that if we're going to be able to continue to have a society where the differences are small, where we can provide good welfare services and make sure that many are at work, it's important to make sure that those who make money in Norway are also involved and pay taxes to the community. If large international companies pay only a very small proportion of what they serve in Norway, in taxes, by running what I would call aggressive tax planning, we also get less resources to invest in school, care for the elderly, police and other important Community tasks. Norway has been — and will continue to be — no doubt about it — a driver to combat tax evasion and profit movements. That effort has led us to have today one of the world's largest networks, with more than 90 tax agreements, for the exchange of tax information between different countries. In fact, Norway has been leading the process of concluding information exchange agreements with countries previously closed for transparency. Norway has also been a driving force in the work of the OECD/G20 on the eroding of the tax base and the transfer of profits through the so-called BEPS cooperation, which is about reducing the possibility that companies with access to tax regimes can exploit inequalities in taxation between regimes to reduce total taxation. Therefore, as the first country in Europe, the government introduced a country-by-country reporting requirement in 2014. To ensure a sustainable welfare society, we need everyone to contribute. Therefore, the Government of the Jeløya platform has determined that profit movements should be prevented by ensuring the tax base and that Norway should continue to be an international driver for long-term and principle-based joint solutions to tax evasion. Today, a majority in the European Parliament adopts a further emphasis on the fight against tax evasion. I look forward to the government's further efforts in this work, but at the same time I will warn against the so-called impatient course we see. We need to avoid a situation where we introduce taxes and taxes that seem very eel-ridden and good individually to solve a given situation, but which together can create a patchwork of taxes and taxes that will not bring us closer to the goal, and perhaps even give us protectionism against the start-up of other businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1915	I want to thank everyone for a very good debate and a lot of good contributions. As many have said, it is important for the sustainability of the Norwegian economy in the future that we protect our tax base. The fact that all those who create values in a society also contribute their legitimate share of taxes to the community is important on the basis of a principle of fairness, but it is also essential for us to be able to finance important welfare purposes in the future. However, economic sustainability is not only about taxing more, but also about creating more. This debate includes the strong growth of the digital economy in Norway. There are many Norwegian entrepreneurs who set up exciting businesses in the type of business that we are debating today. Thus, in both business and international companies located in Norway, several thousand jobs are contributing to Norway’s share of the tax base. There is also a great potential for increased growth and value creation in this industry, and there is a growth that we're going to facilitate. As regards the picture that is being tried here now created by a passive government, I think it should be corrected. I think it's unreasonable. The government is actively working internationally and is a driver. In fact, Norway is one of the countries that contributes most to the working groups under way by the OECD through the strengthened OECD delegation in Paris. In the EU, of course, we have fewer opportunities as a non-member, but this does not prevent active work on the arenas to which Norway has access, and through the Member States with which we have good cooperation. We need to respect the complexity of developing a new, common international tax code. There is no quick fix here, no shortcuts to national and international solutions, some of which have been addressed in the debate. But at the same time, with the great political will that is international, there is reason for optimism about the OECD's ability to find solutions, new tax models, which can be widely accepted internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1926	I asked for the floor to end this debate with a challenge. First, I want to commend the government for all that Norway is doing in international forums to be an active contributor to getting these international coordinated solutions in place. It's urgent, for the United Nations estimates that more than a thousand billion dollars are annually avoided by means of that kind of tax planning. So the challenge is: how long will the government and government parties be satisfied that Norway is an active contributor to international cooperation? Will we meet again in ten years and have this debate again, or will Norway try out models that can also have international successors, a kind of model effect, before it's been ten years? So the question is, once again, should we wait ten years, twenty years? How long will the government wait for the international to take place before you do anything?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1933	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1949	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 15 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, a reply be given to the comments of members of the Government and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1958	I refer you to Report. Article 8 for 2017-2018, on changes in monetary policy. This is an adaptation and modernisation of the regulation introduced in 2001. At the time, both an inflation target and an action rule for phasing oil money into the Norwegian economy were introduced. The regulation has already been introduced, as it is determined by the King in the Council of State and not by the Storting. It appears from the Communication that it has been designed and modernised in consultation with relevant professional environments, and is thus well anchored in them. Financial policy measures, such as: as the oil price halved twice in the previous ageing period can produce good results. This was also demonstrated at the time of the rapid onset of a downward trend. But that kind of action often takes longer, as they have to be done in the budgetary process. That is why monetary policy is a faster and more effective way, and that is why monetary policy is also called the first-line defence of cyclical governance in our country. It is important to say that the experience with inflation targets has been good. The reason for this has also been that confidence in the inflation target has continued to grow in monetary policy. It is necessary to maintain confidence that the wording is then also updated and modernised so that the difference in practice and the wording does not become too large. This is why these updates that the government has now introduced are necessary. The regulation specifies that the inflation target should be both forward-looking and flexible. The previous regulation said that monetary policy ‘should contribute to stabilising the development of production and employment’. This wording has now been changed to ‘contribute to high and stable production and employment’. It is important to say that monetary policy should not be primarily responsible for high employment. However, along with responsible social partners, a good wage formation and a good framework for the labour market, as well as fiscal policies that promote growth and stability, monetary policy is important to ensure employment as well. Another thing that is now being changed in the regulation is that monetary policy should be used to counteract the build-up of financial instability. This has also been widely agreed on in the trade unions before it was introduced. Again, this is not the main responsibility of monetary policy, but monetary policy must contribute to it. So the inflation target is reduced from 2.5 pst. to 2 pst. This is a change from 2001, when the figure was set at half a percentage point higher than in the countries around us. The reason for this was, of course, that in 2001 oil revenues were to be phased into the Norwegian economy. Now the Ministry of Finance itself determines that the time for major phase-in of new amounts is behind us, and that only such measures will now be seen in the form of fiscal measures. In other words, 2 pst. as inflation targets in practice the same as all comparable countries around us. In addition, this is consistent with the actual average inflation rate since the introduction of the inflation target in 2001. The Bank of Norway notes in a letter that the changes clarify the mandate made in this regulation and that this does not lead to significant changes in the conduct of monetary policy. In other words, it may be particularly important for a majority of the Committee to comment, despite all this argumentation, professional advice and letter from the Bank of Norway, to oppose a reduction in the inflation target. Nevertheless, it is important to say that there are no proposals in the case and that a unanimous financial committee proposes to attach the notification to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e1977	The issue being debated today raises two questions: Should the objective of inflation be reduced? The government parties say yes, the others say no. And should the Storting, not just the government, have an opinion on the matter? The government parties say no, we say yes, of course. The first and most important question is: in the last ten years, the Norwegian economy has been in two major crises. First came the financial crisis. It shook not only the Norwegian economy, but large parts of the Western world. Unemployment hit many, including in Norway. We got through that crisis well. Then came the fall in oil prices, with great concern especially in the West. Many were unemployed, most in the West, but also in the rest of Norway. Monetary policy has a role to play in such situations, and the ability of the central bank to manage with a flexible inflation target has been correct. The main message that we have for treatment today describes the experience with 17 years of inflation management. The descriptions show that experience is largely good, but also that the challenges are given attention. Experts who have contacted us and who have expressed themselves after the regulation was adopted have different opinions. Some people think it was right what happened, while others ask the question as to whether it was right to reduce the inflation target, and in particular ask questions as to whether the time was right. Steinar Holden, a widely used investigator for the Norwegian authorities, has said the following about lowering the inflation target: ‘I think the lower target for price growth will lead to lower employment and more jobless.’ More without a job is not what Norway needs. The share that's at work goes down. High employment rates have long been a mark of nobility for Norway. Now we're no longer in the tea – we're not even on the pallet. According to OECD figures, we've moved down to seventh place. That concern needs to be taken more seriously, because it does not help that we have had a fall in unemployment. There is a clear need for more focus on the employment rate and for more people to work. For work is the key to income, which gives people freedom. Work provides the opportunity for the community that the job is, and to get owner-occupied housing, and it gives tax revenue to the community, which we use for well-being. The fragile growth we have seen in employment in recent years is too low in the high-productive professions, those that export and generate income for Norway. When Professor Holden fears higher interest rates at a lower inflation target, it must be allowed to be concerned about the export-oriented industry. LO also supports Holden that lower inflation targets can lead to fewer jobs. So when the head of the finance committee has said that the Labour Party is leaving the responsible line by asking questions about this, the answer is: we want to put employment first. So over to the second question, the division of labour between big business and government. The issue we have to deal with is a regulation that has been adopted in line with the division of labour that is between magnification and government. It is the government that has regulatory competence, and it is the government that is responsible for taking decisions on monetary policy. It is even stated in the law that the Stortinget should be informed of monetary policy decisions as soon as possible. This has been done by the government by submitting Announcement.St.8 for 2017–2018, New monetary policy regulation. A message to the Stortinget is used in cases where the government wants to discuss issues with Stortinget. Money policy is an important part of the overall economic policy, and therefore, of course, it must be a law for the Storting to have an opinion on it, especially when the government chooses to present a communication for discussion. Shouldn't the Storting mean anything? Yes, the government should not have provided the message either. At best, I believe that the government should consult Stortinget with a real consultation. We're recording that the minority government didn't do it. Now it is the responsibility of the government to show flexibility in managing monetary policy. Employment must weigh heavily even when the inflation target is approaching 2 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e2001	In the financial market message submitted in the spring of 2016, Stortinget was informed that the Ministry of Finance would start a work to modernise the monetary policy regulation, which we have now been briefed on through this message. The previous regulation dates back to 2001 and focuses on the challenges at that time. There has been a major development since that time and need to do so. Our experience with the management of inflation targets has been good. Since 2001, we have had low and stable inflation and, fortunately, unemployment has been relatively low during this period. The new monetary policy guidelines provide a good basis for Norway’s Bank to pursue a monetary policy of confidence in the financial market and society. Now, among the changes that are being made, the inflation target, which has been extensively described, is being changed from 2.5 pst. to 2 pst. As the phase-in period of oil money is mainly behind us, there are few reasons for having a higher inflation target than comparable countries. One important factor that is worth noting is that in the period we have been behind since 2001, the inflation target is 2.5 pst. on average, a doctor of only 2 pst. It is also worth noting that Norway Bank wrote in its press release of 15 March that this would not lead to significant changes in the practice of monetary policy, and that inflation management is flexible. The main responsibility for monetary policy cannot be taken either for high employment or for financial stability, but can be an important contributor to other measures. When monetary policy measures can be adopted quickly, efficiently and have an early impact on the economy as a whole, it is no wonder that it is called the first-line defence of cyclical governance. One would therefore believe that it is important for all parties in this room that one has such an instrument that will secure both the krone price, the workplaces and the Norwegian economy as a whole. I also feel the contribution of the Labour Party's fiscal figure, Rigmor Aasrud. I had expected that in the light of what happened when a person went out with his view on the inflation target, he had a slightly more humble appearance from this pulpit, especially when one saw what the market was responding to the Labour Party's policy that time. The fact that I'm a smoking disunity with the Workers' Party in a lot, I think everyone will understand, but that the Workers' Party is willing to take such an approach as the market responded directly to, I would have thought that one would meet more empathetically from the Workers' Party itself. This shows a major change in Norwegian policy after 2017. It's not a development I'm looking at positively, that the opposition is going away from the incorporated procedures for the distribution of responsibilities between depositing and government, and that another one is making a number that Storting should have been consulted on such types of questions. The fact that the Stortinget is informed in a way like this is quite natural, but that the Stortinget should have been consulted in advance on a matter like this, I don't think the Labour Party meant when they put themselves into government, and I can't believe it was the practice in 2001. As far as I have registered, it was exactly the same practice at the time that the Minister of Finance briefed the Storting at the same time as a regulation. One could use many words and expressions to illustrate the handling of this matter by the Labour Party. I prefer to site the chief economist in the NHO, Øystein Dørum, who said to the VG: ‘This is historical: I do not come up with an example in modern democracy in which Parliament oversees the authority of the government to amend the regulation that determines the inflation target. It's very special". It's easy to agree with NHO's economist in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e2021	I have to say that it is a remarkable argument, which I have heard both through the media and, at the latest, from the representative of Njåstad, that it should not be a matter for the majority of the Stortinget to think anything about the inflation target when the government itself has presented a case about it. It is the government that has filed a case for the Storing, which is to be dealt with in the Storing, and the majority expresses what they think about the regulatory change that has been made. For example, who is responsible for changes that may occur in the market as a result of the unexplained situation that has arisen: Yes, it should be a great responsibility of the government for what one here has done. The monetary policy regulation shall be based on long-term sustainability, shall be based on stability, and when making changes, they should be well-founded and firmly anchored. It's the government's responsibility. On the part of the majority, we have been very clear in the comments. It's not about an over-management of the government. On the contrary, the majority's remarks begin with the fact that the monetary policy rule is the responsibility of the government. But then, at the same time, the majority expresses concern about what has been done, about the debate that has been around it, and about the process that has been associated with changes in the inflation target, as described in the communication. Well, there is reference to a seminar on monetary policy in the direction of the Ministry of Finance, where there have been a few contributors, and there are among the contributors who have been there, among others. have been people who have subsequently taken a hard turn against the change that has occurred, for example Professor Steinar Holden of the UiO. Then it says that you have had bilateral meetings with some professional economists from academia and employment organisations. Well, it's not a good enough process to ensure a wide lashing and make sure it's well-founded. To the changes in the inflation target: they are not well justified by the government, and they have also been shown here that they are not well anchored. We have previously heard the Minister of Finance present the matter without being able to give any good reason why it was important to reduce the inflation target from 2.5 pst. to 2 pst. I have also challenged the Governor on several occasions, not later than today at the hearing, what the new regulation will actually mean by changing the practice of the Bank. It is also not there very good to get out why this is important to get done now. There are leading economists and also actors in the Norwegian social debate who point to the challenges of what has been done, and everything else similar will be a change and a reduction in the inflation target from 2.5 pst. to 2 pst. reducing the country’s ability to pursue cyclical policies. Given the financial crisis and the long-standing low interest rate situation that has been in place for the last 17 years, it is remarkable that the government considers it to be a lower inflation target. This does not apply only in Norway. It was shown that we should look to other countries. Well, the former U.S. governor, Janet Yellen, was out last summer and argued against having low inflation targets, and said that experience suggests that one should increase the inflation target – that is one of the most critical for today's monetary policy makers. Vice-Chancellor Kari Due-Andresen has called the decision to reduce the inflation target a little modern and surprising, showing that the reduction in the inflation target is going across both the international monetary policy discussion and academic advice. Steinar Holden has been quoted here from the pulpit in the past, and Vice-Chancellor Kjersti Haugland has warned of changes. A situation where the normal level of interest rates both internationally and in Norway is expected to be permanently lower in the future than in the past suggests that a higher inflation target is needed to achieve the same monetary policy space as in the past. Then LO has also been out there and shown that there is a negative decrease in the inflation target, and that the organisation, among other things. are concerned about the changes that could reduce competitiveness. Summary: It is particularly important to make changes to the inflation target, that they are well-founded and firmly anchored. The public debate that has been going on has shown that this has not been the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e2038	The economy in Norway and the world has changed a lot in the 17 years since 2001. We have also been through a global financial crisis. The strength of monetary policy has been that it has nevertheless been characterised by stability over these years, which has increased the credibility of both monetary and financial policies. Nevertheless, since the 2001 regulation, the exercise of monetary policy by the Bank of Norway has evolved. It is correct, in the SV's opinion, that the regulation is updated to reflect the actual exercise of it and new knowledge. Nevertheless, as the majority in the vote, I would like to stress the importance of long-term stability and that changes should be well-founded and broadly anchored. When it comes to anchoring, this setting shows that this has not been good enough from the government. Monetary policy should be long-term and stable. No changes have been made to each grossing-up period. Therefore, it is the responsibility of the Government and the Minister of Finance to ensure proper anchoring and dialogue with the Storting when changes are implemented. The setting shows that this has not been the case here. So to the rationale. There is reason to recall that the government does not solely justify the change by reflecting current practice. The notification emphasises that the phase-in of oil money is being lowered in future, measured as a share of mainland GDP. According to the government, this will dampen the price increase in the coming years. The government says that the difference between 2.5 pst. and 2 pst. shall not be exaggerated. That can be true. At the same time: Money policy is not designed for good weather days. It is tested when it blows up to storm. The question that needs to be asked when monetary policy is changing is what strategies are being put in place when the money is being used. Then there are two things in particular that point out: Firstly, it is a strong signal that the inflation target is being lowered. It's a message to the central bank to abduct the interest-rate weapon. With a lower inflation target, it shall be less than before the interest rate is set. In practice, for example, the central bank will: be able to zero out a good pay settlement, or if inflation gradually begins to rise, the difference in inflation measures will have a greater impact on the interest rate of the Bank of Norway. This will include, inter alia: means that purchasing power is withdrawn for most people, through higher interest rates. Reduced demand in the economy reduces labour demand and falls in employment, which also has a policy of distribution. Increased interest rates also strengthen – as you know – the krona and give Norwegian industry poorer competitiveness. However, Norway’s Bank argues that a lower inflation target would mean lower interest rates in the long term. The argument behind this is that the actors in the economy are forward-looking, they want to change their expectations and act in line with a lower inflation target. This is well-known economic theory, but there are good reasons to question whether it's going to vote in practice. In fact, we see that the wage formation and interest rate model is crucial to inflation, as both LO's chief economist, Roger Bjørnstad, and Professor Steinar Holden have pointed out. The government has also given Norway’s Bank an explicit responsibility for financial stability in new regulations. That is in the sense that the central bank is already taking. But the fact that it is now being followed up politically is a signal of the government's assessments. For several years SV has been warning of the build-up of debt in households, which is a threat to financial stability. The strong growth in housing prices up to 2017 has made the Norwegian economy more vulnerable. There is almost consensus among Norwegian economists that the tax system for property contributes to the growth of property prices far more than they would otherwise have done. The International Monetary Fund has also repeatedly issued warnings and called for a change in the tax system. Conversion of the tax system — with higher taxes on property and lower taxes on labour — would strengthen financial stability and improve the ability of the Bank of Norway to provide production and employment in its estimates of the interest rate path. The objective of economic policy is to ensure high employment and production. In the opinion of the SV, this consideration should be clarified in the new regulation. If interest rates are set up prematurely, it will affect employment and output. Flexibility in monetary policy is therefore important now. In addition, the government should have ensured that fiscal policies against debt build-up were taken into account rather than shifting this responsibility to the Bank of Norway. Reduced subsidies to those with the most expensive and the most expensive dwellings, often combined with lower taxes on labour, would increase both employment and financial stability.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e2059	There has been some attention on this matter. Some of that seems to me to have been exaggerated. At the same time, I want to make it quite clear that I take self-criticism in my communication, which should have been more precise about the matter being the responsibility of the government. That is why we are not proposing in this matter. The Christian People's Party's position in the setting, on the other hand, stands. The proposal for a decision, which is supported by a unanimous committee, is to take note of the matter. In notes, however, we have said that we disagree with the change in the inflation target. What we fear is that it can give rise to real interest rates, stronger dollar rates and lower employment. While we say that we disagree, in the same note, we show that these issues under the Central Bank Act are the responsibility of the government, and so we take the government's proposal for information by decision on the matter. When the government first changes a regulation, but then the Storting asks for comments, we believe it is right to give our comments in such a comment. The opposite would be very special. Economic theory suggests that a lower inflation target in the long term will lead to a corresponding change in nominal rates and that there will be no change in the real economy. This means that when the inflation target is reduced by 0.5 pst, the wage and price growth and all nominal interest rates will also be reduced by 0.5 pst. Thus, real interest rates are unchanged, and there is no significant impact on the economy. The challenge is that the standard economic theory here, after all, becomes too simple, as Professor Steinar Holden of the University of Oslo has pointed out. It seems unrealistic that the reduced inflation target will result in a half-per cent reduction in earnings this year or next year. The social partners look at other aspects of wage and salary statements — such as the growth of earnings abroad, the profits of enterprises and the actual historical price growth. Nor can we assume that the price increase will be much lower due to a lower inflation target. When inflation is higher than today, the difference in inflation targets will be more pronounced. If, for example: The Bank of Norway assumes that inflation is expected to be 2.4 p.m., the bank will now have to raise its interest rate. It is difficult to say for sure how fast and how big the changes will be, but it is clear that if inflation increases faster than estimated, the lower inflation target will mean that Norway’s Bank will have to raise interest rates faster and more than the bank would do with a lower inflation target – with stronger and lower employment as a result. The Bank of Norway's own figures are roughly 1 500 fewer persons employed. Like Professor Steinar Holden of the University of Oslo, we fear that the effects can be long lasting. The social partners have placed great emphasis on wage growth abroad, although we have had an inflation target of 0.5 pst. higher than other countries. It has given us some extra slack in relation to the inflation target, which has contributed to Norway's Bank setting a lower interest rate than the bank would otherwise have, which has given positive incentives to the economy. When inflation targets are now reduced to the level of the trading partners, it is unlikely that the social partners will target lower wage growth than those of the trading partners. So we give away the snail we had. Real interest rates are likely to increase and output and employment are lower. This is why the Christian People's Party disagrees with the government's decision to lower the inflation target. But this is, as I said, the government's responsibility, and we take note of the government's decision, and the matter is attached to the protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e2072	Despite the low oil price over a long period of time, the Norwegian economy has improved considerably. The April labour force survey figures show an unemployment rate of 2.4 pst. We haven't seen such numbers since 2014. At the same time, Finn.no sees an increase of 25 pst. in new posts announced this year in relation to last year. This is of course good news, which shows that the government has run well, despite occasional storms and high waves, man - made such. At the time of the adoption of the monetary policy regulation in 2001, it was in the context of an Labour Party government that introduced the rule of action and an inflation target of 2.5 p.m. The government then showed responsibility and received the support of a majority on the Stortinget. Since then, much has changed in the economy, and it is therefore good that the government – if not another – has now updated the regulation. Perhaps the biggest change from then on is that today we no longer see the same phase-in of oil money in the Norwegian economy as one in 2001. Oil money use has now stabilised, and we will experience tighter government budgets, with a less economic space for action. We're getting a little bit more similar to our neighbours, and then it's also natural that there's an adjustment of the inflation target, in line with such an equality. We cannot change the inflation target in each ageing period, said the representative Kaski. I agree. It's been 17 years. Change in inflation target will not be alpha and omega for Norwegian competitiveness and employment in the coming years. Although the government's changed objectives are correct, there are several other measures that will now largely determine the degree of Norwegian employment in the years to come: a more flexible labour market, the government's inclusion – not to mention – a reinforced commitment to research and education, access to capital and fewer rules for Norwegian small businesses. These are measures that will help pave the way for the Norwegian economy. There are future jobs. I'm glad it's this government that has the hand on the wheel in these cases in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e2085	With the new monetary policy regulation introduced on 2 March this year, we carried out a long notice modernisation of monetary policy guidelines. It was almost two years ago in the financial market news that we announced that we were working on modernising the regulation. Both the idea of monetary policy and the way it has been practised have changed since the last regulation was adopted in 2001. Thus, there was a need to modernise the regulation, which was agreed by an overall finance committee. Money policy has been practiced in a way that has served Norwegian economy well. Therefore, the starting point for modernising the regulation has been to bring it into line with how monetary policy is pursued, and what is today considered to be modern monetary policy. Unlike in 2001, there has been a very open process this time against the professional environments in advance. Among other things, last January we held a large, open seminar with participation from Norwegian academic environments and also international participation. The approach to the Storting was the same as in 2001, when the Stoltenberg I government introduced the inflation target. On 2 March this year, I left the Council of State to inform the Finance Committee, enlarged by the parliamentary leaders, of the new regulation, before the decision became publicly known. The members of the Committee were then given the opportunity to ask questions about the changes that had been made. When the inflation target was introduced 17 years ago, the then government chose to use an instructional access in the Central Bank Act, which states that the King of the Council of State may decide on the operation of the Bank of Norway. Those decisions may be general rules or requirements in individual cases. The Bank shall have the opportunity to give its opinion before such a decision is taken and notification of its decision shall be sent to the Board of Governors as soon as possible. It was natural to use the same provision this time. The specific instruction procedure must be viewed in the light of a desire to protect the Bank of Norway from political over-management in the way it implements monetary policy. This provision has been used three times: when the inflation target was introduced in 2001, when the bank was required to advise on countercyclical capital buffers in banks in 2013, and now in the modernisation of the inflation target. The briefing of the Storting must be seen primarily as a guarantee of transparency around such instructions. So it follows from the law and from the practice that the King of State Council sets out the monetary policy guidelines. The size is briefed on the implementation of monetary policy through the Financial Market Communication and the Financial Committee has since 2003 had the Governor for annual consultation. This division of labour between the Stortinget, the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Norway has worked well and has been maintained by changing governments. There are good reasons why the division of labour is like this. Control signals about changes in monetary policy may affect financial markets. Uncertainty may be reflected in both crown and interest rates. In matters where individuals can enrich themselves by having access to information on pending changes just a short time before others, we as authorities need to take specific precautions. There is also a reason why decisions on monetary policy guidelines have been added to the King of State Council. The modernisation of the regulation, as the name says, is primarily a modernisation and not a signal that monetary policy should be pursued in a different way. The main changes compared to the previous Regulation are as follows: Firstly, taking into account the real economy and employment has been given a more prominent place in the new regulation. While the operational objective previously only concerned consumer price growth, it has been extended to include the consideration of high and stable production and employment. The Bank itself has focused on contributing to stable growth in production and employment in the pursuit of monetary policy. Now the objectives are more equal in the operational part of the regulation. In addition, we sharpen this by using the word 'high'. That is precisely what we are doing to stress that high levels of output and employment are an important consideration. Here we've gone beyond what's usual internationally. Secondly, we have also taken into account the fact that financial imbalances do not build up, as an explicit consideration of the operational objective. It is also in line with the practice of the Bank of Norway and seems to have broad support in the trade unions. The last change I want to point out is that the inflation target has been adjusted down from ‘over time close to 2.5 pst.’ to ‘over time close to 2 pst.’ [[...]] [[...]] In 2001, the target was set slightly above the inflation target of key trading partners with a very specific justification. We were in front of a phase-in period of oil revenue. Economic gravity means that increased wealth in a country will increase the value of its output compared to other countries. Such a real appreciation could take the form of a curious inflation or a strengthening of the crown. It was then assessed that the phase-in of oil money could best be achieved by aiming at a slightly higher price increase than other countries. Now the period of phase-in of oil revenue is essentially behind us. Thus, the key argument for having a higher target than other countries has fallen away. Should we continue with a higher inflation target than other countries, it would have had its counterpart in an expected continuous weakening of the Norwegian krona. That's why we're now aligning ourselves instead with what's the target in other countries. Of course, we have to assume that the exchange rate can fluctuate from month to month, but the same inflation targets as other countries provide a better starting point for a stable exchange rate over time. With wage formation that looks at wage growth abroad, there is also no disadvantage with the same inflation targets outside and at home. I'll also emphasize that the difference of 2 pst. and 2.5 pst. is not large and there is no reason to exaggerate the significance of the change. Nor is there any reason to expect such a slight change to result in output and employment. The difference is no greater than the deviation we have actually had: Norway's Bank is aiming at inflation of 2.5 p.m. and obtained an average of 2 pst. I can also mention that there has been an academic discussion internationally about inflation targets should have been raised in the light of the long-term low interest rate. In my opinion, this is not primarily about individual countries, but about a higher inflation target in general. If you were to benefit from such a strategy, you would probably have to set the target a good deal higher than today, and the former Chief Executive Officer of the IMF, Olivier Blanchard, has proposed 4 pst. No country has so far adjusted its inflation targets for reasons of increased freedom of action in monetary policy. For us, it has been crucial to choose the same inflation targets as for other countries, which provide the basis for a more stable price over time. In view of this, I am wondering about several of the comments made by the majority of the Finance Committee in this matter. Let me start with the claim that lower inflation targets can reduce the flexibility of setbacks. Here I would like to remind you that the Norwegian Bank has stated that the scope of action in monetary policy is sufficient for an inflation target of 2 p.m. According to the Bank, international experience shows that the scope of action is not exhausted when the interest rate is close to zero. We have examples that government interest rates are below zero, and more central banks have directed market interest rates by buying securities. Nor should we forget that Norway has considerable scope for action in fiscal policy, which we can take advantage of in the event of severe setbacks. Should we first be exposed to a serious setback in the Norwegian economy, the choice of inflation targets in practice plays a rather small role for us. Furthermore, the majority believe that the time of the change is not right in view of the development of the labour market and the growth of the economy. As I initially pointed out, adjustments in monetary policy guidelines should not be governed by economic or party policy considerations. The downgrading of the inflation target is related to changing prospects for phase-in oil revenues. It is no longer the case that we are facing a long period of increased use of oil revenues, and then the rationale for a strange inflation target disappears. That's why it was right to make the change now. The majority are concerned that excessive adaptation to a new higher interest rate inflation target and stronger exchange rates can help to make the target of full employment more difficult to achieve. I would like to remind you that Norway's Bank has stated that the new inflation target: «is of itself of little importance to the interest outlook in the near future». I am amazed that the majority of the Finance Committee believes that it knows better than the Bank of Norway how the interest will be set in the future. Let me also say that the social partners in Norway deserve to be commended for good cooperation and for adapting pay growth to the overall economic outlook in a way that serves society well. I'm assuming they'll keep going. There might be reason to remember that inflation has been on 2 pst in the last 17 years, without it seem to have been a hindrance to well-functioning wage formation. Finally, I would like to point out that the uncertainty that the majority of the Committee on Finance has been involved in creating does not serve the Norwegian economy. Nevertheless, an overall committee notes that the authority to establish monetary policy guidelines lies with the government. The Committee shall not promote any proposal except that the notification is annexed to the Protocol. The regulation is laid down and will not be amended. This continues the division of labour established between the accumulation, government and central bank, over which changing governments and previous accumulations have followed up and protected.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e2138	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e2144	I note that the Council of State in its statement here claims that the changes that are now being proposed are of very little importance. Then my question is: does the Council share the opinion of its fiscal spokesperson – that it is almost premature for the Storting to have an opinion on a matter that the Council of State has put forward for consideration in the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e2151	I went quite thoroughly through the questions in my main post – about the division of labour between the big business, the government and the central bank and about the methodology we have used to inform before the decision became publicly known. So we have chosen to use exactly the same methodology as when the inflation target was introduced in 2001. Nor did Stortinget choose to think anything about setting interest rates, and I believe that it should be a task of the Bank of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e2158	I did not register that the council responded to what I was really asking for. Is it not early for the Storting to have a meaning when a large-scale treatment message is first presented? In that case, the Council of State could not have chosen, for example: to inform the Storting by letter, if one did not wish to have an exchange of views with the Storting on the facts of the case?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e2163	Again: I explained in my main post why we are briefing the Storting in the form of a message, based on the previous process that we have had in this. I have chosen to use exactly the same methodology now that the previous government used when the inflation target was introduced, in 2001.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e2168	I see here that the Council of State and the minority on the Grand Duchy believe that it is unwise for the majority on the Grand Duchy to express its views on a matter that the government has put before the Grand Duchy. Does modernisation of the inflation target allow? Yes, the majority of the population agrees that there should be modernisation, but the question is, is the reduction of the inflation target from 2.5 pst. to 2 pst. The question is: Was it wise to make this change when one sees that both central economists and LO warn, when the majority of the Stortinges disagree, precisely in an area where it is important to contribute to stability and long-term? Is the Minister of Finance satisfied with the process she herself has contributed to?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e2175	As I explained in my post, we have chosen exactly the same approach to the Stortinget as the previous government chose when the inflation target was introduced in 2001. Then I have tried through my main post to explain that it is lowering the inflation target from 2.5 pst. to 2 pst. for all practical purposes almost has no meaning. The Bank of Norway has also made this very clear. But what we have done, and I also perceive that there is a broad consensus in the Stortinget, is to adapt the regulation to the real exercise of monetary policy that Norway's Bank has developed over time. I mean, it's good. We have a monetary policy with considerable flexibility, which takes more into account, and I also believe, as I also explained in my main post, that assigning employment as much more weight as we have done in the design of this regulation, shows that we are taking this very seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e2182	What's the big difference between the last time the regulation was changed, 17 years ago, and what's now happening is that the last time the change in the regulation was supported. Now there are key actors in the social debate and a majority in the Grand Duchy who put great questions — and highlight disagreement — at the change that was made. That is why, once again, I ask the Minister of Finance: does the Minister of Finance think it is wise to act in such a way that, on such an important issue, which is about long-term and stability, he does not ensure that there is also a broad consensus about the measures that a person implements?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e2189	I believe that the way we have implemented this change has been completely in line with practice and in the way we had to do it, among other things. because these are market-sensitive issues. Then I do not agree with the claim that there are so many key players who disagree with what the government has done. I have recorded that there are simple voices who have had a dissenting view that it has been a bit demanding to get to the bottom of what they really mean, but there has been a broad consensus in the trade unions that the modernisation of the monetary policy regulation that the government has implemented has been correct. It is also just to look at the consultation opinion of the Norwegian Bank itself, which provides broad support for the fact that the changes we have implemented are about modernising the regulation in line with practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e2196	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e2203	The last time the Storting got an adjustment to the inflation target on the table was when it was introduced in 2001. If we look back at how the Storting then dealt with this message, it differs from today's handling of the case. In 2001, a large majority of the financial committee noted that the government had introduced new monetary policy regulations. This time the majority goes against the change. At the time of the introduction of the target in 2001, Norway was expected to enter large petroleum revenues into the Norwegian economy. That's no longer the case for the years that are coming. The introduction of a Norwegian inflation target that is similar to almost all comparable countries' targets is, in my opinion, a correct approach. The road to the new regulation has been made through open and broadly anchored work, both in academia and in the professional environment of the financial sector, including universities, international experts and the Bank of Norway. When the majority, with the Labour Party at its head, writes in their statement that they ‘do not agree that there are sufficiently serious reasons for the change in the inflation target’, I am concerned that the Workers' Party does not agree that the future use of oil money in the Norwegian economy should be less than the years behind us. This is a well-established change in monetary policy, and although the majority of the committee states that it is the government's task to lay down this regulation, it is unexpected that the Workers' Party and the majority will not support the change. This is something we've had a broad majority about, but now we're going into a time when the monetary policy, anchored in our economy, seems to be up to date again if the Workers' Party were to have government power. I think that's unfortunate. Today, the Financial Committee has held a hearing on the financial market notification 2018. The central bank manager made it clear in his statement that Norway’s Bank believes this is a proper grip. Although he also indicates that there is discussion internationally about this question of what the goal should be, and that this is a valid debate isolated, the change we are talking about here is something else. It is about whether Norway’s Bank has the flexibility to conduct a robust monetary policy, and it itself says that this regulation provides room for manoeuvre. Furthermore, the bank says that the new regulation will not lead to significant changes in the exercise of monetary policy. The change we're talking about here is not so big and should not be exaggerated. Furthermore, the Governor explains that they have given increasing attention to production and employment when setting interest rates. It is raised by the opposition that this change in rapid adaptation can help to make the full employment objective more difficult to achieve. Well, a change with this regulation is just that high employment and production are highlighted. I believe that it is right to modernise the regulation, and will provide my support for the government's change of regulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e2218	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e2234	Norway has concluded an agreement with the EU on administrative cooperation in the collection of VAT. The agreement was signed in Sofia on 6 February 2018 and the Stortinget shall today give its consent to the entry into force of the agreement. The agreement is based on the Double Tax Contract Act. The purpose of the agreement is to combat the failure of the VAT system. In recent years, several major criminal networks have been identified where extensive fraud is committed through the VAT system — fraud that often occurs in the context of international trade, because it is then difficult to check whether VAT is paid. It has made clear the need for good cooperation between the tax administrations of different countries in order to establish good systems for the exchange of information and the collection of taxes. The agreement on cooperation in the field of value added tax decides that Norway will participate in Eurofisc. Eurofisc shall exchange information through its own expert groups in specific risk areas. It has proved to be a useful tool for EU tax authorities, and the government has therefore stressed that the agreement would lead to Norway participating in Eurofisc. The agreement does not allow for mutual direct access to national databases, which is a restriction on what is happening between EU countries. This is due to differences in the reporting arrangements for operators. The agreement does not involve the transfer of sovereignty.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e2251	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e2267	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e2276	In this matter, I cannot resist the temptation: «See the cod, see the cod, see the cod A fat and fine and Norwegian en’ And on the other hand, ‘The cod is now coming Without it, the world can pass There is a single fish which is better than the cod actually that is true and true’» That's how Kirkvaag, Lystad and Mjøen put the meaning of what we're here to debate, in perspective. This case concerns the status of the coastal cod stock in the Oslofjord area. The background is a proposal from the SV for immediate action proposed by the Institute for the Exploration of the Sea, as well as three actions not proposed by the Institute for the Exploration of the Sea. The coastal cod strain is a genetic and behavioural variant of Gadus morhua. The study of the marine research institute shows genetic and behavioural variation between North Sea cod and coastal cod. This goes for example: on the choice of habitat. Coastal cod is declining in this area, and in other areas as well. There is little doubt that both catch pressure from humans, predators such as sharpness and climatic conditions affect the strength of the population. The most important factors are more uncertain. Coastal cod is located in an area vulnerable to both increased sea temperature and recreational fishing. There is no commercial fishing for cod in the area, and there are already some limitations in fishing in the area. We don't have all the answers to why the population is declining. On the basis of a letter of response from the Council of State Sandberg and a written consultation, the Committee has carried out a thorough examination of the proposals and a majority has found that one does not wish to support the proposal. On the contrary, an overall committee refers to the concerns about the sustainability of the stock and the need for action to be taken. At the same time, it is important, when dealing with such in-depth measures against both the rights of all persons, business interests and other species that are partly concerned, that established and legal processes are followed, and that individual measures are ensured in terms of their effectiveness and proportionality. Fisheries authorities and other administrative authorities are now working on the basis of the proposals of the Institute for the Exploration of the Sea and the review of the implementation of the individual measures. This process will lead to actions in which all parties have been consulted and the integrity of the process and the legal certainty of the parties involved have been maintained in the usual way. In addition, this room has previously decided to start work on a management plan for Oslofjorden. It is also natural for problems related to the biological sustainability of individual species to be included in this work. The majority of the Committee did not wish to bypass these processes. There are good processes which, especially with regard to the Directorate for Fisheries, have already come a long way, and which it would be unfortunate to interrupt and circumvent now. I hope that the debate in this Chamber today underlines the confidence of the processes that are now underway. At the same time, I would like to stress that it is clear from the comments made in the matter that the Committee expects a rapid introduction of measures to improve the conditions of this stock to the extent possible, while at the same time ensuring sustainable fishing, inter alia. by floats and shrimps in the fjord area can be maintained. And again, to quote KLM, "Without it, the world can pass".
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e2311	According to the Marine Research Institute, the coastal cod population is historically low. The species has returned along large parts of the coast of South Norway. Worst is the state of eastern Skagerrak. From the Labour Party, we therefore support the need to take action to bring the cod back to Oslofjord, and we would stress the importance of rapid and relevant action. Fortunately, something is happening. Some measures have already been taken, while others are on the stairs. The 2016 report of the Marine Research Institute, which provides knowledge status for coastal cod in the south, also made a number of proposals. Both the Directorate of Fisheries and others are monitoring the report and some of the recommended measures. The protection area of Tvedestrand has continued, and it has been announced that during the summer the Fisheries Directorate will submit a case for consultation with proposals for the protection of professional priority spawning areas from Stadt to the Swedish border. At the same time, additional gear limitations for recreational fishing are being considered and exceptional measures are to be proposed for the Telemark-Eastfold area. Increased knowledge of the impact of the measures is also required. A concrete project that can contribute to this is Krafttak for the coastal cod, which is a collaboration between the Marine Research Institute, the Färder National Park, the Outer Hyler National Park, the relevant counties, the Fisheries Directorate, the Environmental Directorate, the Fiskerlag and the Small Fisheries. For the Workers' Party, it is important that in future we also have both professional and recreational fishermen in Oslofjorden. Leisure fishing is important as recreation for the many who live here, while professional fishing represents jobs and is an important cultural carrier. It is good that both types of organisations are active participants in the current process, and we hope that it will be continued as the government is now preparing a comprehensive management plan for Oslofjorden. Since the SV made its proposal, there has been great unrest among the fishermen in Oslofjorden. In meeting with us in the Workers' Party, the Fischerlag Sør has confirmed that they fear that the SV's proposal will hit the fishing industry in Oslofjorden unnecessarily hard if they are implemented. The fact that several of the SV's proposals in this case are not based on professional advice is also a challenge. The Labour Party is therefore part of the majority of the Committee which, in its vote, stresses that this type of intervention needs to be thoroughly investigated before being assessed, including an assessment of the impact of the measures. Therefore, like the rest of the majority, we do not want to go into the measures recommended by the Marine Research Institute until they are subject to a quality assurance recommendation and assessment. It is good that SV places this matter on the agenda, and we have an understanding of the impatience. Nevertheless, the Labour Party cannot support the proposals in their present form.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e2330	I was pretty clear that it was 5 minutes speaking time, so I have to try to skip every second sentence, and we'll see how it goes. Once upon a time, the Oslofjord was full of cod. I've seen old pictures – 100 years old. It was actually so that it was almost possible to imagine sequences that could remind us of the Lofoten. A Joint Committee and the Council of State agree on the description of reality – including the last speeches – or the description of misery for the coastal cod in Oslofjord. The Marine Research Institute has called out a warning many times, not just in 2016. They have made concrete proposals, by 2016. Not only the environment around Flödevigen – the Institute of Marine Research – other environments have also cried out. As late as Friday, two NMBU researchers were in the evening post and supported all the points of SV's Document 8. The background for this is, of course, that the cod is out running. There is something that needs to be done now, it has to happen very quickly so that none of the populations of coastal cod – there are actually several local populations – can be lost. There have been things we're not mastering. There may be climate change, there may be pollution, there may be other factors in the Oslo soil. We must bear that in mind, but the number of the Marine Research Institute is undeniable. There has been a huge overfishing of the coastal cod for years without any action being taken. Both the Committee majority and the Council of State refer to the overall plan for the Oslo Earth, which was adopted here in the Chamber just a few weeks ago. That plan is good, that is, the proposal is good – and we will see what the plan is like. But plans that are so extensive will take time. It will take time before we get a proposal on the table that at least specifically deals with the cod. Several departments will be involved, several departments will be involved in such a plan. What we had to think about in SV then was immediate action for the cod. We based on the Marine Research Institute's proposal and added a couple of immediate measures for internal fjords. Justice was the starting point of SV, all fishing groups had to contribute to this we could call a five-year moratorium against fishing cod in inner fjord. All were to contribute: those with fixed gear, those with fishing rod, those who caught cod as by-catch, etc. It was said that several proposals have not been examined. Nor did the Industry Committee ask for a hearing on the matter, and many of the issues have been known for many years. But I'm going to leave the suggestions that go beyond the recommendations of the Marine Research Institute. Why, then, cannot the majority of the majority of the House support part one of the proposal? I want to come back to other points a little later, but I want to raise the SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e2351	The representative Arne Nävra then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e2356	There is no longer any living man who, with his own eyes, has seen what wealth nature could exhibit six or eight generations ago. The memories of the almost endless wilderness, bird migration that could fill the entire vault, and fjords that cooked of fish, are almost wiped out from our common memory and can only be imagined in scattered records. Only in our time have the ripens in the mountains, the salmon in the rivers and the seabirds along the coast become so terribly fewer. This development has also affected the cod in Oslofjorden. The proposers in this case point out that the Institute of Marine Research has produced alarming reports on coastal cod stocks, and it has been in the last 20 years, while we have lived and worked, that the decline in coastal cod stocks has been greatest. That is why we in the Greens are giving our full support to the proposals that SV has made here today. For what is at stake is not only the past, but countless future generations are able to experience a rich and living fjord and to reap this unique cod population, as people have done for thousands of years before us. We have noticed that the majority of the committee believes that there are too many processes already in progress and that the proposals should therefore be rejected. We agree with the Committee – yes, there are several promising decisions and processes in progress, not least a decision on a restoration plan for Oslofjord, on a proposal from the Left. Thank you to the Left for that! At the same time, we see the proposals as complementary to the existing processes, additions that could give more concrete substance in that direction, and legitimacy to the plans that already exist. We in the Greens believe that there must be a new front in the fight for nature, both in the Oslo Earth, in Norway and in the world, where we must work offensively to regain some of the diversity that we have destroyed. Then it's time to invest, not only in finance, debt and produced capital, but in natural capital. Then we need many more such proposals as this in the future – so thank you very much to Mr Nävra and Mr SV for this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e2367	There is a broad consensus that the cod is not good in the Oslo soil. That is why I share the concerns of the proposers, along with many others, and I think it is absolutely right that this matter should be put on the agenda by Stortinget, although the matter has not been on the agenda – it shows my response to the committee by April – because there are many processes going on to do something about it. The Fisheries Directorate will also, as many have been involved, shortly send out further proposals for consultation. The hearing will include, inter alia: include proposals for the protection of spawning areas for cod, specific protection measures for the area from Telemark to the Swedish border and gear regulation in shrimp fisheries. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee agrees with me that we have to follow the ordinary processes of investigation and consultation and action, including on this matter. The measures must be based on the best possible knowledge, and I believe that in these kinds of cases it is important for all stakeholders to be heard. I think we all agree that action must be based on knowledge, and that those to whom the measures apply must be given the opportunity to intervene and to comment on the proposals for action. This procedure provides us with the basis to be closest within, to determine the right measures. It may not be the first decision to make and then carry out a pro forma consultation process. Although there is an urgent need for effective action, I must follow democratic processes, which necessarily take some time, and which may be annoying to many politicians, who are very impatient. As I register it, many are impatient in this matter. The representative, Knag Fylkesnes, also proposes a ban on the use of lights in fishing for sprats in Oslofjorden. The Marine Research Institute and the Directorate for Fisheries have investigated the effects of light fishing for herring and sprat, but they do not find any significant adverse effects on other species. As far as light fishing is concerned, we also need to rely on knowledge, and action needs to be taken. The representative Knag County also requests information for recreational fishermen in several languages. This is available in English and Norwegian, and there are different rules for tourists from abroad and residents in Norway. Tourist information is available in English, German, Polish and Russian, and a number of channels are used to access this information. Maybe you can spread that information even more widely, and maybe in other languages that hit better? That's something I want to look at, of course, along with the directorate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e2378	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e2383	I'm glad the Council of State shares my concern for the Oslofjorden. I think we both look at the cod as a species of signal in many ways – if the cod is doing well, the entire ecosystem is doing well. But does the Council of State think that political leadership in the department has been following marine research closely and looking at their research results in recent years? Does the Council also feel that he has recorded the warnings that marine research has brought? Finally, what kind of measures can the Council of State refer to that have helped the coastal cod population in Oslofjord until now?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e2388	There were a lot of questions. Everyone knows that it is demanding to have the effect of regulatory measures, especially when looking at the whole of the ecosystem. I can show you, among other things: to the Tvedesstrandsfjord, where there has been research on the effect of more stringent long-term fisheries regulations, including a zero fishing area, since 2012. Research has shown that both survival and size have increased as a result of these regulatory measures. In the zero-fishing area, the survival of cod has actually doubled. However, what this type of measure also shows is that recruitment does not get any bigger. That's why we need some knowledge. You don't have to hit 100 pst in the Oslo Earth. in terms of raising survival rates. But you don't have to get a bigger recruit, and that's the more recruitment we want. That is why, in the case of the Tvedestrandsfjord, I have expanded and let research go for another five years, because it takes some time to get effective measures. That also applies to Oslofjord.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e2396	I thank you for your answer. I can agree with parts of the explanation to the Council of State. He refers to the Tvedestrandsfjord, but he could also refer to conservation zones, which have obviously helped other species, such as the North Sea, and the North Sea. lobster. We have also seen areas where the cod has been taxed less, for example, Skagerrak, which have produced very good results. I'm afraid that while we're carrying the water to the cow, it might die. It goes back very quickly with this coastal cod. The Council of State has reflected on the time horizon here, how long it can take before concrete action is taken, policy decisions, which can remedy the situation of the coastal cod — in the light of, for example, The work of the Department, but also in the light of the last proposal from the Left, which is now under consideration?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e2403	After all, a regulatory plan takes some time, as we all know. The actions of the Institute for the Exploration of the Sea shall be consulted. I'm counting on them to come in a short time. Then we have a consultation process from there. Once all the parties have been consulted, of course, I will draw up the necessary proposals that we see are most accurate in terms of what the marine research institute might have to respond to in the consultation processes. If you're going to measure the effect over a long period of time and get reliable measures, we're talking about 10 years, 20 years, 30 years to get some recruitment back to build up the population, but that doesn't mean that we politicians can't prevent, be a little lead and put in place measures. We do that in a number of contexts, both with national parks, protection, etc. Perhaps there are larger areas that can be protected to have a greater impact on recruitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e2410	There is still a reference to lack of knowledge. I also hear that the Council of State can imagine even more knowledge – that more is being explored. You've been doing research for years. It's still been researched, but as soon as you're in doubt about what to do with government, you call for research again. I've seen this from the sideline, actually also pretty close to it, and I'm going to promise the council that I've been on the shrimp boat, been with and fishing, dived in Oslofjorden. I know it pretty well, and I have a biological background myself. I have also had close contact with the research community in this matter, and it is probably not a big secret that I am quite involved in the proposal. I'm very worried, I must say to the Council of State. The question is: why does the Council of State think we need more research? Does not the Council of State have confidence in the strong, clear conclusions already presented by the marine scientists?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e2419	It's a little surprising to hear from SV that you don't need any more knowledge, that we don't need any more research. I interpret the representative correctly – of course I do – I just wanted to comment on it this way. I believe there are still some gaps in knowledge that need to be sealed, and that also says the Marine Research Institute. Although strong warnings have now been issued because of coastal cod stocks, especially in Oslo, but also along the rest of the coast, it does not mean that one sits on the key and the solution to get up the recruitment and raising the population. I think there might be a need for more research. Because, as I'm referring to, you have studies that show that you get the stock and the survival rate of the cod by protecting, unless you're fishing, etc., but you don't get an increase in recruitment, and it's this code that needs to be broken if you really want to increase the cod population in the Oslo soil and other parts of the coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e2426	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e2431	Let me first of all correct an information given by Mr Nävra's representative from the Chair. It has been a hearing, but it has been written. It is not such that neither nature protection interests nor commercial interests have been able to make representations to the Committee. They have done so, and they have been read and taken into account in the Committee's voting. In this sense, it can almost be heard right now as if some of us do not want to implement measures because we want to wait for more research. That's not right. I just want to stress that in view of the majority position that is here. What's right is that the measures are about to be implemented through a process in the Directorate of Fisheries, and we don't want to go into the wheels of that process, because we think it can lead to a longer time to implement the measures we want. What worries me, however, about the impact of some of these measures, as the Minister for Fisheries says, is that the cod at Tvedestrand is getting older. Several of them survive, and of course they get bigger as they grow, but there won't be any more cod children of it. So over time it won't necessarily have the effect that we think. That's why it's important in such a case that we follow the investigation code, and that we do a proper professional investigation of the things we're going to do, so that they're proportional, and that they actually work, and that what we're trying to do, we're aware of the consequences of. This includes, inter alia: That we're going to shoot sharp, that is. We're going to kill one species to make another species survive. Such measures have previously proved to have considerable consequences. Therefore, it is important that we tread carefully in this. So at least it's in my book that we have some democratic rules. These include: that we hear the population and interests first, and then we decide in Stortinget afterwards – not the other way around. Here there have been proposals to first adopt the legislation and then listen afterwards, in reality. I don't think that's a very good practice, that is. it is essentially proposed to adopt the legislation and not to have subsequent consultation in the proposal in place. I do not think that is a good administrative practice, because there may be new knowledge from the interests, and they have a democratic right to be heard in the design of such a code, both for nature conservation purposes, from fishermen and from the population. Then there is one proposal that SV does not propose to introduce, namely a registration of the recreational fishermen at Oslofjorden. It's also a page – it also needs to be investigated before we say no to it, without me being so very excited about that particular action.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e2446	It is quite obvious that I am disappointed that the government has done so far in this matter. There have been many years, there have been many warnings. That's gross, not least I have to say it on behalf of our coastal cod stock in the Oslofjord. I'm also disappointed, as you can see, about the opposition today. One could have picked out decisions here – points in the proposals – that we could agree on if this matter were taken seriously, points that were relatively small in conflict and that would not require a large investigation period either. It was pointed out that part 1 of the proposal could be supported if you wanted, i.e. what was recommended by the Institute for the Exploration of the Sea. And what about, for example, supporting the proposal for the imposition of grating on shrimp trawls? No, you couldn't either. What happens is kind of pushing the problems in front of them another year or two – or how many years is it going to be? I don't dare say. As I said, one calls for a little bit more research, and so it can happen that some of the populations come below a critical level that makes the genetic pool, the local genetic pool, disappear. If you think about this in a big context and about the large populations we've had in the North Sea – we can think about herring, we can think about the cod also in Newfoundland – they came under a stock that made it completely critical. It was with distress and hardly this came up again. Newfoundland is still struggling. It can be said that on a smaller scale, each of these coastal populations can be assessed slightly in the same light. That means that I just have to, as I see that the position is in the committee and in the room, refer to a note on page 2 of the setting, where it says: ‘The Committee will stress the importance of taking action and would ask the Stortinge to be properly informed about progress. The Committee stresses the importance of these processes leading rapidly to actions to improve coastal cod conditions.’.» I ask that the Council of State also notice this by its influence on the large process that is taking place around the Oslofjorden proposal, and that the Council of State uses its influence to take these comments further into account in that process.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e2468	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e2484	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e2497	The size is then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e2506	In the course of the debate, Mr Moxnes has put forward a proposal on behalf of Mr Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Grand Duchy requests the Presidency to conduct an investigation with a view to clarifying the purpose of Alfred Nobel’s Peace Prize.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal. An alternative is to vote between this proposal and the suspension of the presidency. The Presidency had set the Storting to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e2532	I voted wrong. I should have voted in favour of the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e2537	The result is that 92 voted in favour of the vote and 2 voted in favour of the proposal – and this is why the vote is approved.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e2546	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e2586	During the debate, Mr Greni put forward a proposal on behalf of the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to assess whether the current guarantee liability of the municipalities and the Husbank for start-up loans should be changed in order to establish a more equal risk sharing from the first crown.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e2601	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e2617	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e2629	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e2638	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Frida Melvær on behalf of the Right Party and the Advance Party proposal No 2, from Jenny Klinge on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 3-6, from Jenny Klinge on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on proposal No. Four from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to ensure that the response time requirements – from the time the police receive notification of an emergency mission until the time when the first patrol is on site – apply to 100 per cent of the cases.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e2667	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5 and 6 from the Center Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a sample to assess the extent to which there has been a change in the role-sharing between the police and the other emergency situation as a result of the structural changes in the police reform and new instructions for the interoperability of emergency budgets in the event of ongoing life-threatening violence, as well as assessing the preparedness consequences of such changes or could lead to in the long term’.» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess whether Norway’s drinking water resources are adequately protected from threats such as terrorist attacks or hybrid warfare and what can be done to ensure good preparedness if its drinking water resources are under pressure.’ The Socialist Left and Red have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e2691	There is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a sample to assess the security implications of increased foreign ownership of critically important infrastructure in Norway.’ The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e2708	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to ensure that the composition of the sample to be reviewed by Norway’s national and local preparedness is anchored in the Stortinget.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e2725	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e2733	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 1 from the Right and Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to consider setting up an overall emergency commission once important reform work in the justice sector has been completed.’ The Left and Christian People's Party have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e2754	During the debate, Mr Gülsvik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Proposal for a new law on money laundering introduces the following changes: Section 4, first paragraph, point (g) is replaced by the following: g) payment undertakings and others entitled to provide payment services, including agents of non-resident enterprises. The sixth paragraph of Section 4 shall be deleted. Paragraph 4 seventh paragraph shall become the sixth paragraph.’. Alternatively, this proposal and the suspension of the Committee shall be substituted for point (g) of the first paragraph of Section 4 and the sixth and seventh paragraphs of Section 4. The Committee had decided to refer the following decisions to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e3988	It seems that several votes have not been registered. We're going to vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e4000	All remaining paragraphs shall be added to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e4010	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e4020	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e4029	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Per Espen Stoknes on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the Green and Red Environmental Party the proposals No 2 and 3, from Per Espen Stoknes on behalf of the Green and Red Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Green and Red Environment Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to use international cooperation actively to support a common European system of taxation for multinational companies, including a temporary model for companies with a digital performance platform.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to focus on the following elements in the assessment of the taxation of the value creation of multinational companies with a digital performance platform: – Tax on royalties and licences at source – Reporting of revenues from platforms – Digital turnover tax and VAT paid by platforms – Reverse credit deduction – How to capture tax adaptations made through tax havens – Norwegian accession to a future Common Consolidated Corporate Tax Base [[CCCTB]] – Evaluate how to go ahead with new requirements for what a fixed site in a country implies – How Norway can be a driving force in the OECD to incorporate uniform taxation into the OECD model tax agreement – That withholding taxes and VAT are deducted from banks or credit cards when purchasing cross-border services. – Taxes on the purchase from abroad of companies in Norway – How requirements for uniform taxation can be incorporated into our multinational agreements.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e4098	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to explore different ways of taxing the value creation in Norway from multinational companies with a digital performance platform and to show how such a tax can be introduced in a way that can subsequently be harmonised with an expected equivalent tax regime in the EU.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e4113	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e4134	The Green and Red Environmental Party has now announced subsidiary support, so that the recommendation seems to be unanimous.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e4144	Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e4152	The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e4201	In the course of the debate, Mr Nävra put forward four proposals on behalf of the Socialist Left. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 4 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for a ban on the use of lights for fishing for sprat in Oslofjorden.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to strengthen its efforts to obtain information in several languages on existing legislation for fishermen in the Oslo area, and in particular for recreational fishermen.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e4227	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 3 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to take rapid action to rescue the coastal cod population in South Norway, on the basis of the actions of the Marine Research Institute’s recommendations on regulatory measures [[Fish and sea no. 4/2016]] a. The spawning areas identified in the report in question are protected against all cod fishing. b. For the interior of Oslofjord, a fjord line is defined for Battlentangen-Larkollen. Within it, all fixed or standing gear intended for fishing shall be prohibited. [[including Drammensfjorden and Holmestrandsfjorden]] Of recreational fisheries, only line and pole fishing shall be permitted and caught cod shall be released again. c. Introduce instructions for the use of grating in shrimp trawls. The arrangement of the mandate shall be part of the cooperation process of the Norwegian Coastal Fisheries Team, the Norwegian Fisheries Team, the Directorate of Fisheries and the Institute of Marine Research.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an evaluation of the measures to rescue the coastal cod population in South Norway to be carried out after 5 years and reported to the Stortinge in an appropriate manner.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e4277	Case No. 11 is the second time that the law is dealt with and applies to the law decision 51. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e4297	The proposed representative is sent to the Health and Welfare Committee. The Bears of Moxnes have asked for the word.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e4304	Today, only five out of nine ambulances are in operation. From 1 p.m. 15 today both planes were on the ground in Alta. We just have to hope that no serious events happen in Finnmark this day. So readiness is critical. Only the ambulance planes in Tromsø and Bodø in are fully prepared for the next few days. For two hours tomorrow, there will be red alert in North Norway. This means that the situation is critical, and that is the most serious emergency situation. So far, 13 pst. by the air transport pilots who left the job and 20 of the pilots were offered a job in other airlines. These are people who are extremely difficult to replace, who have a peculiar point competence. What happens is that the entire service is on the move, and the measures that have been put forward so far do not help to solve the problem at all. We believe that the Stortinget must now take responsibility and ask the government to clean up, as Red has suggested. We therefore ask that the proposals be dealt with in accordance with point (c) of the second paragraph of Section 39 of the Rules of Procedure and be dealt with after the Minister of Health's statement in the Stortinget tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e4313	The President shall open up a short round of explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e4318	The situation related to preparedness, especially in North Norway, is precarious. However, we in the Labour Party support the fact that the proposal is being examined by the Health and Welfare Committee and stress that the Committee is the sovereign one to submit to a very rapid examination.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e4323	It's a very serious situation we have with the air ambulance crisis. It is clear that Storting must take a decision and have a case about this. We've dealt with this many times before. We also put forward a proposal on Thursday to deal with a matter on this subject in the long term. We see that the matter can be dealt with better with with an urgent procedure in the Committee, where we can quickly create a position in which we can get a majority for the good proposals. We support – as the presidency has suggested – the fact that the matter should be sent to the Committee, but then we must ensure that there is a rapid treatment so that we can get it back to the Stortinget as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e4328	I would recommend the Christian People's Party Group to vote in favour of the presidency's proposal, on the grounds that this is such a heavy matter – to have good preparedness where hospitals are not close as hail, where we need good preparedness. We have to deal with this properly, and we want to take a quick look at it in the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e4333	For every day that goes, we lose very important competence in the north, and readiness is under every criticism. We do not have time to wait for this matter. Therefore, SV supports a treatment under point (c) of the second paragraph of Section 39 and supports secondary treatment in the Committee, but will ask for it to proceed as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e4338	Several have not asked for an explanation of vote, and it is voted over the procedure. Alternatively, between the president's proposal on committee procedure and the Red's proposal on procedure under Rule 39, second paragraph, point (c) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e4353	Further references were made: 2nd@item: inlistbox Representative proposals by Kjersti Toppe, Marit Arnstad, Geir Adelsten Iversen, Sandra Borch, Willfred Nordlund and Siv Mossleth to strengthen the emergency medical offer outside the hospital and ensure sound air ambulance services (Document 8:225 S [[426]] [[2017-2018]] 3rd@item: inlistbox Representatives of the representatives of the population of Geir Pollestad and Kjersti Toppe to strengthen the provision of rehabilitation services for patients with chronic lung disease and to stop the closure of the 2 East rehabilitation unit in Egersund (Document 8:226 S [[427]] [[cold]] [[2017-2018]] Onest. : No. 2 and 3 are sent to the Health and Care Committee. 4th@item: inlistbox Letter from the National Audit Office on the treatment of Prop by Storting. [[428]] [[GDPR]] 56 LS Onest. : Sent to the Judicial Committee. 5th@item: inlistbox Representative proposals by Mona Fagerås, Audun Lysbakken and Freddy André Övstegård on the statutory right to SFO/AKS space (Document 8:222 S [[429]] [[2017-2018]] 6th@item: inlistbox Representative proposals by Mona Fagerås, Lars Haltbrecken and Freddy André Øvstegård on youth education with final rejection of asylum applications (Document 8:223 S [[430]] [[2017-2018]] Onest. : No. 5 and 6 shall be sent to the Education and Research Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-14.ana.ud439e4378	As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
