ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e43	The representative Eirik Sivertsen, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. The called alternate of the More and Romsdal counties, Tove-Lise Torve, now takes the seat. Three permit applications are available: by the Central Party Group on sick leave for the representative Jenny Klinge from 3 December until further notice by the Group of the Party of European Socialists on sick leave for the representative of Hanne Dyveke Sweets from 3 December until further notice from the representative of Une Bastholm on sick leave from 3 December until further notice On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For More and Romesdal County: Geir Inge Line For Nordland County: Grethe Andersen For Oslo: Per Espen Stoknes
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e102	Geir Inge Lien, Grethe Andersen and Per Espen Stoknes are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e114	The representative Per Olaf Lundteg will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e119	On behalf of the representatives of Nils T. Bjørke, Sigbjørn Gülsvik, Kjersti Toppe and myself, I would like to put forward proposals on ‘Amendment of the Working Environment Act to allow the Labour Inspectorate to enforce the legislation on the accommodation of staff members’.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e124	The representative of Audun Lysbakken will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e129	On behalf of the representatives Solfrid Lerbreck, Arne Nävra and myself, I am delighted to make proposals to explore alternatives to the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e134	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e142	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Svein Harberg. – Other proposals are not available, and Svein Harberg is unanimously elected president of today’s meeting. From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 30 November 2018: ‘Changes among State Secretaries State Council was held at Oslo Castle on 30 November 2018 at 2.30 p.m. 1100 under the direction of His Majesty the King. The following decision was adopted: Petter Kvinge Tvedt will be appointed State Secretary for State Council Siv Jensen in the Ministry of Finance with effect from 14 December 2018. Hanne-Maren Blåfjelldal is hereby dismissed as Secretary of State for the Council of State Bård Hoksrud in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. Atle Simonsen is dismissed as State Secretary for the State Council of Jan Tore Sanner in the Ministry of Knowledge and is re-appointed as State Secretary for the State Council of Siv Jensen in the Ministry of Finance. Political adviser Rikard Knutsen is appointed State Secretary for State Council Board Hoksrud in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food.’ The referenced letter shall be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's Storting meeting continues beyond noon. 16.00 until the current map has been processed. At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 and 2 are dealt with as a whole – and consider it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e192	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 4 hours and 45 minutes, excluding lines and three-minute posts. The number time is divided into groups as follows: Working Party 80 minutes, Right 70 minutes, Advance Party 45 minutes, Center Party 30 minutes, Socialist Left Party 20 minutes, Left 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 15 minutes, Green Party 5 minutes and Red 5 minutes. The string changes are proposed as follows: Following the intervention of the Minister of Finance, one line per opposition party is given, together with six lines, and four lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of the political groups, parliamentary leaders and other members of the government – within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e207	Let me start this debate by thanking the Committee for a good cooperation in the treatment of the 2019 State Budget. As most people know, we started a little bit later than normal. Nevertheless, the Committee has shown great flexibility and goodwill, both in opposition and in position, in order to put in place a position which has also not delayed the size of the budget more than is strictly necessary in view of the parliamentary situation we have been through this autumn. In October, the government presented a very good budget proposal for 2019. This was a budget that was also based on the previous budgetary units with clear, recognizable priorities for all the four non-socialist parties, which provided a good basis for the consensus that will be adopted today in the Storting. Let me therefore also thank the Progress Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party for constructive talks and a good common budget agreement for 2019. This is the eleventh budgetary union between these four parties since 2013, and whether I get to say, one of the smaller conflicts. I would also like to thank the opposition, who has shown goodwill and worked hard to get everything needed by the committee to promote its overall position in time. A little in line with my thanks to the Committee, it is worth saying that you should not go so far out of our country to find much greater challenges in political life. In our neighbouring country, Sweden, they have not yet established a government after the elections they had at the beginning of September. In France, the country is marked by demonstrations and state of emergency precisely because of the draft budget for 2019. The contrast with Norway is great. Although the Christian People's Party held us all in suspense for a few weeks, those of us who spent some evenings following the County Year's Meetings of this party can sign that there was not exactly chaos and unforeseeableness that marked the meetings, there were waffles and respect for each other that marked the debate. This stability and predictability are itself a strength for Norway and a well-being for people, precisely the fact that parties with different starting points find common solutions, and the fact that we have an opposition that shows disagreement with the majority but that is also constructive when it is necessary for our country. That's something we're going to enjoy, and that's something we should take care of in Norway. It's going well in our country. The freedom continues to go down. Employment continues to rise. GHG emissions have been reduced to the lowest level since 1995. And more and more students learn more at school. These results have not come about by themselves, nor is there any law of nature that it will continue in the future. That is why the political priorities and choices we make in this budget are important. We're always going to spend good time investing for the future and equip ourselves for the challenges that will certainly come. Some of them we know, others will come quickly. It's worth remembering that politicians basically don't have any money – everything we give in the budget is people's money, which we manage on behalf of them. It demands that we properly house, that we do not use more than we have, and that we give priority to those who need it the most, when they need it. The second is that the solutions can't always be taxing more. We need to facilitate the creation of more in our country as well. When companies have room to invest, hire more and develop their products, it also has ring-fenced effects. Several people come to work and thus also get financial security for themselves and their families. Knowing that bills can be paid in time, and that unforeseen expenses do not mean family crisis, is the most important welfare that people can have. Through investments in companies, we also develop more legs as a nation. This is how we rust for a time when the oil and gas engine in the economy will become a little weaker. To continue to afford our common well-being that benefits the values fair in society, we need values to distribute. Those values must be created, and therefore we must facilitate the creation of value. Important budgetary intervention is being taken to ensure that there is more creation in Norway. The budgetary agreement further reduces company tax to 22 p.m., so that our companies have competitive framework conditions and that jobs do not move abroad. We also reduce the taxes on wealth on working capital, so that the extraordinary tax on Norwegian ownership is reduced. Now that we're further increasing the tax rebate, that means that companies don't have to tax so much of their machines and equipment to create values and jobs. Taxing this is a little bit like eating seed potatoes. It works fine one year, but the autumn after getting a problem. In addition, we invest further in what can be called the circulation of blood in our society – road, rail and ports. Since the four non-socialist parties were given a majority in 2013, investments in transport have increased by 75 pst. This is how we make sure to invest in future Norway, and we modernise our common infrastructure. We also know that education is an important base for success later in life. A good education can't take away from you, it gives independence and is a tool to achieve your goals and dreams. This is why it is very positive that more students learn more in Norwegian school, that fewer people fall away, and that school absences have been dramatically reduced since the absence limit was introduced. Efforts at a good school continue — not least by creating 600 new teachers’ specialists. The aim is that each school in Norway should have one — this to ensure that each school has an expert in its classroom who can assist the other teachers, who can identify learning difficulties, and who can make it easier to catch those who need it early. We also invest heavily in research and higher education, because the challenges of the future require us to think new and different. Tuesday 20 November, the government parties and the Christian People's Party were able to present a comprehensive agreement on the state budget for 2019. The Christian People's Party will certainly bring forward several of its breakthroughs in its main post later in the debate. But it's worth noting some main features. We find room for further investment in our common well-being by giving particular priority to families with children. Child welfare is increasing for the first time in 22 years, while the one-off benefit also increases. This is in addition to the fact that the government extends free core time to 2-year-olds. Kindergartens are given increased funding for the standard of living in the kindergarten introduced, and more of the funds for the municipalities are earmarked for teaching in addition to a real increase for this purpose. This is done at the same time as protecting the important steps to invest for the future by reducing taxes, giving more to the way and the way and increasing research efforts. It is also worth noting that it is the breakthrough of the Christian People's Party in this budgetary agreement that is now getting the toughest participation from the Workers' Party in the media and perhaps also in today's debate. It's interesting to note that in several areas, the distance between today's opposition parties increases. The Labour Party criticises the increases to the child families where the Socialist Left Party welcomes them. The Swedish Environment Party and the Greens will greatly increase environmental taxes where the Senterpartie claims they are against. But at the same time, today's five opposition parties seem to agree on some major features: It will be more expensive to work and more expensive to create jobs. All parties increase the tax burden at the same time as they go towards major and important reforms in order to renew and simplify – this at a time when we know that we need to create more, and where we need to get more out of the money we grant in the future. They go against the obligation of activity for social welfare recipients, even though we know that this gets more out of work. They're opponents of New Roads, which is estimated to be able to save us 30 billion. kr in the important transport investments we are going to make – by working smarter and planning better. You're simply not concerned with baking the cake bigger to have more to distribute, and the opposition is not willing to get more out of the ingredients we've already planned to use. This is not the way to arm Norway for the future. That's not how you take responsibility for our country in the years that come. Norway is the world’s best country to live in. It hasn't come of itself, and there's no law of nature that it's like this in the future. The budget that the Stortinget is going to adopt today is a budget that creates and distributes. This is how we guarantee the Norwegian model for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e278	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e283	The Chairman of the Financial Committee has constantly tried to give the impression of genuine concern about the sustainability of the welfare state and that the Right should take responsibility for this – and cut costs. But the only thing that's cut under this government is petty cut for those who are involved, and that often means a lot, but not much for the expenditure side of the budget. Nor is it easy to find evidence of accountability and reform in this year’s budgetary settlement – what Asheim has been responsible for. There are hundreds of small expenditure items for which it is difficult to see contributing to the sustainability of the financial committee leader. And then I want to ask the representative, Asheim, which of the increases on the cost side of the deal contributes most to the sustainability of the welfare state?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e288	I can start with the closing question. The answer is that action we take to ensure that more people choose to have children strengthens the sustainability of our welfare society. When birth rates fall as much as they do, there is cause for concern — in the long term — for the country. That is why it is very positive that we together with the Christian People's Party have come up with increases for the families of children – something that the Workers' Party criticises in the media, but on which we are proud to have been – both through the fear of children, through the one-off support of the mothers who are not at work, and through several other measures for the families of children, not least on the kindergarten side. But then I have to say that, first of all, this is a tight budget. So you use 2.7 pst. of the value of the oil fund. That means you have a neutral budget. Secondly, it's a little funny to get questions from the Workers' Party if we're not going to cut a little bit more. Is there anyone in any debate who has heard the Workers' Party say that a little less should be spent on this?"Not at all, the Labour Party promises far more than they fund, also in its alternative budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e295	The representative of Asheim has begun to be a good festivist. You have to subtract a little bit from these party numbers, for example. when talking about the transition of the Norwegian economy, for the trade deficit from the Norwegian mainland economy is much greater today than in 2014. So it's gone in the wrong direction, not in the right direction. And when Asheim talks about predictability in tax policy, it's important that we have a tax and tax level to ensure enough value creation, it's very hollow when the only tradition Right has introduced in the last few years is that every harvest comes with a new tax. Last year, the food industry was the one that had the big fee shop. It strongly affected Norwegian value creation. This year it is Norwegian taxi industry. I can't believe that the Right, who says they're concerned with predictability, comes with that kind of stunt every year. I can take an example: the fee for a Volkswagen Caravelle is today NOK 200,000 and will be up to NOK 436 000. It directly affects small businesses around the whole of Norway. Why does the Right have such an unpredictable charging policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e302	In the case of party speeches, it has come to my attention that the representative Battle Violence Vedum had a party this weekend, a birthday party actually, with 140 guests. Thank you so much for not inviting me! When it was spaced to 140, I might be able to do that. [[muttering in the hall]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e307	But the representative took off his speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e312	Yeah, I'm aware of that, and now the president did too! To start with the taxi industry, it's important to remember that some of what we're going through in Norway is a green shift. The taxi industry has had a discount on the CO 2 tax and the conversion that all other cars have had. What you're doing here is at the same time pointing out that the special equipment used, for example, is to people with disabilities, not covered by this. When you're going through a green shift, it also means turning the charges in such a way that the green shift actually comes. And it's just to look around at the collaboration partners of Battle Violence Vedum, or at least potential: if they don't also think you should have green environmental taxes. Of course they do. Otherwise, the tax pressure in this budget is reduced, and I therefore believe Battle violence Vedum had to search with light and light to find something to criticize.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e326	There was one perspective lacking in the presence of the representative, and it is the ever-increasing share of tax cuts that goes to the richest. And now the government is running out of time. If you look at the government's own figures for the tax cuts of the 10 pst. The wealthiest in Norway with the largest assets, we see that in the period 2014–2017 they have received almost one third of their personal tax laws — and now the government has increased its pace. This year this group, the 10 pst. richest, received a total of 42.7 pst. of the tax cuts, and next year they will receive about 40 pst. of the personal tax code(s). The representative spoke in his speech about prioritising the community money properly. Is this in the opinion of the representative a good priority, and will develop there the 10 pst. The wealthiest gets an increasing share of tax cuts, continue?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e334	First of all, it's worth noting that with this government, and with the majority we've had in Stortinget since 2013, a normal family in Norway has received NOK 11,000 in lower taxes. I think that's something for a normal family in this country. That means they have a little more room in their monthly budget, a little more room to handle unforeseen expenses, or know that the nursery bill can be paid. It's well-being. But then we have – quite rightly – also reduced the tax on commercial property and business; we can simply say that we cannot eat seed potatoes; we have to make sure to create new jobs in Norway. The most important welfare for people is having a job to go to. The fact that we have a tax policy that both gives more room in the private economy to ordinary people, and also leads to businesses being able to cope better – we have had reduced corporate taxes and reduced wealth taxes on working capital – enables us to create more for the future. Now that we have the lowest unemployment rate since 2009, when we now have an increased employment rate, it means, first of all, good things for the government budget, and not least for the individual, who gets a job to go to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e341	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e346	I would also like to express my thanks to the Committee on Cooperation for a rather demanding time in drawing up a State budget for Norway. The best thing about Norway is that we prepare for each other — as the trade union movement has done when there have been difficult times, as we do when we solve the most important tasks together. Norway should have equal opportunities for all. The most important thing in our lives must be the policy. That means that we need to prioritize the money where they can help most. Little is more important than giving our kids education, providing care and assistance in old age, and providing a good health care if we get sick. Therefore, this should be a responsibility we share, building on what people can get together. But good Community solutions do not come of their own. They must be created. The government has delivered the tightest budget to the municipalities in over ten years. It does not enable municipalities to offer more places or to improve the quality of kindergartens, or to provide more teachers and early schooling, or to strengthen care for the elderly. Our common welfare systems are weakening. The Labour Party prioritises solutions for ordinary people. Hospitals are a foundation in the welfare state. Our public common hospitals must have a good financial environment. Only then can we make sure that you are always sure that you get the best treatment when you get sick. We're keeping our hospital promise. That's why we're giving $3. SEK to hospitals, SEK 1.65 billion. kr more than the government's proposal. Many municipalities struggle to get permanent doctors. The decision-makers are the foundation of our healthcare. Disappearing from the base wall, the construction works fall. When over 80 pst. They say they work more than the work environment law allows, there is reason to listen. There's a fixed crisis out in Municipality-Norway. There's a need for action to do something about this. With our option, we would get 400 new regulars and 100 more alternates. Several young people have to be able to finish school. We need a reform of early action, a reform that ensures that children receive the follow-up they need. That is why we demand that half of the employees in the kindergarten be educators. We suggest 500 more teachers in high school who can give our kids the education they need. By using the community's money, we can make it possible for everyone to have equal opportunities. That's why we want to introduce school food, a single meal that allows kids to start school day with food in their stomachs. We're proposing 700 million. NOK to this in our alternative arrangement. The economic background of parents shall not prevent young people from participating in games and fun. In addition to school food, we're proposing $100 million. kr to allow young people to take part in leisure activities and 100 mill. kr to BUA, which enables both large and small to rent equipment for activities. Many young people struggle to pay their dental bills, or postpone treatment. In our budget, we propose free dental care even the year you turn 21, and 50 pst. reimbursement for all until they are 25. That's how we build out the Community solutions. Climate challenges have increased and natural disasters are more frequent and severe. This summer we all got a taste of what climate change can mean. Globally, 2018 has shown us the damage caused by hot waves, droughts, floods and forest fires. It's urgent to find solutions. The UN climate report, which came on the same day as the state budget, shows that the consequences can be worse than we thought. In this year's budget, therefore, the Labour Party has a significant contribution to make to the climate. We're using over 3 billion. kr more than the government of climate action, because the climate noise is not solved by individuals alone. Here, too, we have to use the community. We listen to business needs. We're using funds to get a CO 2 fund going for business transport. Two thirds of the emissions of commercial transport can then be cut. We are strengthening industrial conversion with more to Enova, and we are strengthening efforts to prevent flooding and migration. We have created our own climate emissions budget, which is incomprehensible that the government does not provide. To finance the required promise for the welfare country, tax cuts are not the way to go, nor do they increase cash benefits. We have to make it more profitable to work. We live by each other's work. After five years of right-wing rule, it's less true than before. Those with the lowest wages now have less to route than 10 years ago. It doesn't motivate any extra effort. The inequalities are increasing, and that's exactly what we don't need. Fewer are trade-organized. It gives less negotiating power and more unequal distribution of profits. Weaker bargaining power is one of the main reasons why workers are left with less. It's serious. The right hand rule's tax cuts increase the inequality. Taxes are neither good policy for distribution nor industrial policy. The investments are waiting. The tax cuts, on the other hand, result in more profits for owners of capital – not investments or more jobs. The labour market power ends up with the capital owners and weakens the employees. This is probably evidence that the government is running a policy for the rich. To create more, we need to strengthen the Norwegian working life model. If the degree of organisation is not maintained, the division of profits becomes even more evident. An organised working life, with full, permanent jobs and strong, responsible parties, is essential for conversion and value creation. Strengthening the bargaining power of workers will help to restore the distribution of income on a more productive and fair track. So in our budget, we're increasing the union deduction by 1000 kroner to get more people to organize. It is good that the Norwegian economy is improving. The oil price drop that began in the summer of 2014 led to a decrease in demand from the base, manning and increased unemployment. The monetary policy of the Bank of Norway and the sensible social partners have taken us out of business. Just as the government can't be loaded because the oil price fell, the government can't take credit for the arrows now pointing up. The last AKU figures show that over 100,000 are still available, despite the fact that it is over two years since we reached the bottom of the recession. Although the Ministry of Finance expects an economic growth of nearly 3 pst. The next year, unemployment is not expected to fall. There are too many people who are not allowed to participate in the economic process. We need to use better times to get more into the labour market. It is wrong to step down labour market measures when more than 100000 people want to work. It is wrong not to give more opportunities for new skills, because many jobs are changing. Automation and technological progress are positive for Norway. But automation must lead to job growth, not jobless growth. That is why we need a power cap to allow workers to update their skills. The NHO also calls for more competence. We have put forward a labour force competence reform of 1.2 billion. kr. The oil price drop should give us an important lesson. The oil price has fallen again in the last few weeks. The source of the downpour we just left behind is still a high-current candidate for new economic downpours. But have five years of tax haven't given us a more versatile business? The answer is that we create too little. In order to create more rates of the Workers' Party on an active industrial policy – among others. The sea, which is a huge resource. We are proposing a value creation programme for the marine industries. This is how we build on Norwegian excellence, high-tech competence and Norwegian natural resources. At a time when more and more people are concerned that inequalities are increasing, we are presenting an alternative budget that contributes to a fairer distribution, an alternative where most people get more to walk with. We're increasing the minimum subtraction. Lone minimum pensioners get NOK 4000 more per year to walk with. In ordinary income, income taxes are lower than those proposed by the government. Those who pay a lot to get to work get less money. We help make it pay for more environmentally friendly choices. But those who have the most have to contribute more. That's how we can fund good community solutions and contribute to a more fair society. I address the proposals that the Labour Party is either alone about or is with others about.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e412	The representative, Rigmor Aasrud, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e419	The working party has been given renewed concern about the working line. Since 2013, the Labour Party has criticised today’s majority to implement a misreform that makes it more profitable to work. They have opposed the obligation of activity in social assistance. They have said no to the right to work on redundancy payments. All of this, of course, is about the working line, but they have been against it. Not until the Christian People's Party began to get through to the budget negotiations, the concern arose, because now the Workers' Party proposes to reverse the whole increase in child welfare, not to increase the one-off benefit, and to zero out the entire cash support. Former Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik tweeted a while ago that the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party could agree on a budget of ten minutes. Does the representative Aasrud think it would have held?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e426	I am absolutely sure that we could find good solutions with the Christian People's Party, but it is quite wrong what the representative Asheim says, that the Workers' Party has not been concerned with the line of work. Then he may have followed very little in Norwegian policy in the later years. What should really concern the representative Asheim is that we still have over a hundred thousand outside of work. What should worry the representative Asheim is that we've seen an explosion of the number of young disabled men who get on the job without taking action to get them to work. And what should really worry is that there is a weak commitment to bringing new skills into the workplace. For those who are at work today, there will be major changes, and if we as a nation are to be able to take advantage of our advantages and have people at work, we have to make sure that more people are offered to fill their skills so that we can have competitiveness in our future business.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e433	In the Workers' Party's alternative state budget, taxes and charges are greatly increased. Some of the people who get reviewed are like the usual drivers. So, let's say $1.9 billion. kr the Workers' Party will require extra from the drivers next year. They want to do more than reverse the cuts in the one-off charge, which the majority of people have completed in the last five years. What's perhaps most special is that it's the chargeable hybrid cars that are to be punished hardest. All chargeable hybrids are significantly more expensive with the Workers' Party configuration. Among other things, Norway's most sold chargeable hybrid, Mitsubishi Outlander, will cost over NOK 40,000 more. This is reflected in the range of unforeseeable charging policies of the Workers' Party. Ten years ago, everyone was to be stimulated to buy a diesel car, a few years later it was an abomination, this year it's the chargeable hybrids to swing the whip over. Does the representative of Aasrud understand that both car industry and consumers can become uncertain by the history of the Workers' Party and the policy of charging?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e440	In the case of unforeseeable charging policies, a person with good experience speaks well about it, in terms of both a seat charge, plastic bag charge and other charges that have been paid in his or her night hours. As far as our car arrangement is concerned, it follows the lines that we put on earlier. We spend more on the one-off fee to get a revolution to a more environmentally friendly vehicle. I think that's right, if people can't buy cars that don't make sense in the future. That is why we have chosen to impose a stricter charging policy on those cars that have the largest emissions, and that is also true of the hybrids. We need to have a longer range to get a full count for the benefit of the hybrids, and then we've increased the range from 50 to 100 kilometers. That makes sense to me in a situation where we get good electric cars into the market, which can be good substitutes, and which contribute to less emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e447	The SV and the Workers' Party are united in criticising the government's need test of well-being, in particular as regards the conversion of free core time in the kindergarten, from a universal system to a need-tested system, which in reality acts as a poverty trap; it does not pay to work, then loses a quick and free nursery place. The kindergarten has, as you know, become more expensive during this government. But what I don't understand is the Workers' Party's resistance to child welfare on the basis of an argument that there should be a break in the line of work. The child's security comes to work as well, it comes to the top of the income you get if you're out of work, and that's after all most. Does the Labour Party not worry that the income development of families with children depends on the other social groups and that child poverty is increasing in Norway? There are more families than just those with kindergarten children.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e452	It is worrying that more families are falling behind. When we've chosen not to increase child welfare by 83 kroner a month for everyone, it's because we've spent the money differently. We've spent the money on school food for everyone, because we think it's important that kids get food before they start learning. We've spent the money on dental reform, which allows more people to cover dental expenses, which we know is quite burdensome for many parents who have youths. And we've spent the money both to initiate measures for the kids who live in poor families, and to strengthen the arrangements we know to make. So we've prioritised 1.2 billion. kr to services that we think it makes sense to strengthen so that everyone can feel better. Then I agree that the need for child welfare testing – many cash benefits that increase at the same time – is demanding to get people to work. We have to agree to change that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e459	With that rhetoric about child welfare, the Workers' Party should actually cut more in child welfare and use it in even better ways than letting families decide for themselves how to use the money, because in the Christian People's Party's policy, collective – as the representative Rigmor Aasrud promises – is about the families, the most important community. We believe that if one strengthens the families – that they get more freedom of choice, and we give trust – the families will work better. That's why I'm proud of the increase we're making in child welfare, which is historic – the first one in over 20 years. For many, a thousand bill means a lot, especially for those who have the least. The one-off benefit is also being attacked, but both the child's pension and the one-off benefit are perhaps the most distant benefits from breaking with the workline. The question is – when Jonas Gahr Støre is out saying that if someone around the kitchen table feels that it is better, for example. to provide a child rather than to go to work – if this is wrong. Or if the family around the kitchen table decides that one wants to be a little longer at home with the 12 month-old baby that can neither walk nor talk – is that wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e467	Of course, it's not wrong, but I think it's hard to defend that some families make the choice if they're going to be at home or not, based on 83 kroner in increased child welfare. We do not intend to cut the child's pension, but we have chosen measures that we believe are more appropriate than raising the child's pension by 83 kroner a month. In the case of one-off social benefits, we have chosen to ensure that those who are students can have the opportunity to have children earlier by increasing the number of months a student receives, to twelve. We think that's a good way to give more students the opportunity to have children at an earlier time. Too many wait too long, and we think it's a better way to prioritize the money than to increase the one-time benefit directly. That's a priority that I think is right.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e474	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e479	The state budget for 2019 is the fifth budget for which the Progress Party is contributing, and the sixth for which we together with the Right, Left and Christian People's Party have formed a plurality in this Chamber. Like the committee leader, I would like to thank Kjell Ingolf, Abid and Henrik for their good cooperation in the negotiations. We were able to do this on the day of the deadline, and without using a single night, so no one can say that something has happened at night this time. I would also like to thank the opposition for the cooperation, and our committee secretaries and the others on the Stortinget who have helped us at all times of the day, so that we could create an attitude and a government budget. This state budget also has a clear Progress Party profile, and it is the policy that is most important to us. Therefore, I will present the most important Progress Party profile issues in this State budget. Now we're going to have an old man's office. We've had a children's office in Norway since 1981, and back in the 1990s, John Ingolf Alvheim called for us to have an older office as well. He said that the elderly would not stand alone in the fight against bureaucracy. He meant that someone had to be a speaker for the elderly, so that they were taken seriously and heard, and that the elderly had a proper treatment, good food, choice and warm hands. It is now a reality through this state budget. The older people of the country get an own old management, and there's a solid Party of Advancement sayings like the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Right are with us today. Another important issue for the Progress Party is always transportation. Sometimes it's nice to see how the transport budget was in the last few years with a red-green government. If we go in and see, we see that our budget for transport, which is agreed today, is 75 pst. greater than the last transport budget of the previous government. A total of 104 kilometres of motorways will be opened next year, and we will continue to take the maintenance ramp and bet on the road. Another important matter for us this time, and a big breakthrough, is the property tax. I record that very many people talk about child poverty and the economy of families. If there's something that's really aggravating for the family economy, it's the property tax bill, which comes out indiscriminately – based on the color of the local government in the municipality you live in, and how eager they are to collect this tax. The property tax doesn't matter what the economy you have, and he doesn't care about an own house, or whether it's the bank that owns the house. It's an invoice you have to pay in any case, and we've seen a lot of grumpy stories about families with children who have to pay more than $20,000 a month and have to choose between kindergarten and property tax. So it's been a struggle for the Progress Party, and we're very happy that we're now getting a pass to go from seven to five proms and also put a fixed reduction factor on the property tax. In this way, we have started work on reducing the taxes on property on the houses of people. When we see a house, we see a home and not a tax object, like too many local politicians, and especially red-green local politicians, around Norwegian local government do. We're making a solid contribution now, by going from seven to five per million. Our goal is still to remove the property tax, but we are pleased that we are taking an important step today. The last solid Progress Party image is on the tax side. We see the taxes further down, and compared to the alternative state budgets that are on the table today, it is clear that the four parties that have multiple numbers, viewed taxes and taxes down. We've done it with almost 25 billion. kr of six years, while the opposition is some about at least one thing, and that is that one should increase the tax and tax burden for most people. If we compare again with 2013, an average family, a normal family, has $11,000 more to route with today. About half of the tax payable on personal taxes has been paid to those who have less than NOK 600000 in income. There are common people, mostly people, who have received the greatest tax credits with the state budget for the Progress Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e494	It is nice that the representative has a friendly tone, but in the minutes Henrik, Abid and Kjell Ingolf are representatives of Asheim, Raja and Ropstad. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e501	When the representative, Njåstad, brings forward what is a typical right profile and puts the elderly representative at the top, it is tempting to say: After six years of scarce municipal economy, the elderly are in need of an elderly representative. It would have been better if they had received adequate care for the elderly in the municipalities. It's the eleventh budgetary agreement between the government parties and the Christian People's Party, said Asheim – six years of record use of oil revenues. But what is left of reforms after the six years of the Progress Party in government? We can drive Segway, and we can buy liquorice pipe in the kiosk or exchange cigarettes in two bottles of wine in the tax-free shop – as long as it takes. But what is left of reforms, of structural interventions, that can help ensure the sustainability of the welfare society at a time when oil revenues are falling?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e508	First, when it concerns the local economy, it's not right that the representative says it has a meager local economy. It has been proved that the local economy has our special good during this great majority. Among other things, one had record profits two years ago, so the local economy is good. There are many reforms that remain behind us – after five years of government budgeting initiatives. In common with most people, the Labour Party has protested against the various reforms. When one is in the area municipality: We have, among other things, implement a community reform to ensure that we have stronger and fewer municipalities, which will be able to provide even better services. We decentralize power to fewer regions and stronger municipalities, and we have had a red tape reform, which frees a lot of money, so we can bet on other things. So there are many reforms. For all of them, the Labour Party has protested against them – and has not produced a single idea of its own reform in the five years they have been in opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e517	When the Progress Party got the Minister of Finance, a new tradition was introduced in Norway. When December came, the question was, what new fee are we going to have a shock increase of this year? It has become predictable in the Party's charging policy that some tax bomb will appear as the year draws to a close. Last year it seemed very smart to increase the fees for non-alcoholic beverages by over 40 pst. We in the Center Party thought it was quite a lot. And when we looked at the rest of the food industry -- the chocolate and sugar fees were probably 80 pst. – we thought that it was not possible to top it. This year, however, the Progress Party will introduce a taxi tax, which will amount to over 100 pst. increase in the charges on many of the vehicles required by the Norwegian taxi industry. Caravelle went from NOK 200000 to NOK 436 000, and a small Mercedes station wagon went from NOK 219,000 to NOK 467 000. Why does the Progress Party want to punish business around the whole of Norway, those engaged in passenger transport, with such a massive increase in fees?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e524	I don't know if we should talk about traditions, it seems like the Center Party is a good water for proposing tax increases. When the representative talked about ‘top’ tax increases, I immediately thought about Kjersti Toppe. She was the one who called for a sugar tax first – with great commitment over many years. When it comes to car taxes, the Senterpartie itself has been involved in the idea here in the hall of gradually increasing them by climate change considerations. And read a their alternative state budget, they're going to charge the taxes on both alcohol and tobacco. They proposed it in November, but it will come into force from 1 January – without telling me that the Centre Party is best placed in the class of making tax proposals. When it comes to the issue of car taxes, we also want one of the taxi industries to be environmentally friendly and therefore to enable the same mechanisms as those for private individuals who buy cars to be applied to that industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e531	I would like to thank the representative, Mr Njåstad, for the review of the victory of the Progress Party in this budget. There is reason to remember that no government has had as much money at its disposal as this government. That the government has been able to afford a bit of a way, should be lacking. It is more interesting to hear about the other and other priorities that this government has held, and to hear if the representative thinks it is good Progress Party victory for 2019. The 2 pst. The richest get as much together in tax cuts as half of them with the lowest wealth in Norway, the 15 pst. The wealthiest gets as much in tax cuts as the 80 pst. with the lowest wealth, and the thousand richest people in Norway receive on average NOK 130 000 in tax cuts in 2019 with the government budget. Is this, in the opinion of the representative, a policy for people most – a policy for the many and not for the few?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e538	Absolutely – this is a good policy for the many. I thought SV would have to stop talking about those who create jobs, in the way that one does. If one goes in and looks at the budget, it is clear that we are facilitating the creation of revenue for the State budget. Then someone has to take risks and make sure that it is invested in private jobs in order for us to have something to distribute into the government budget that comes in the later years as well. Then we can't talk about the entrepreneurs and those who take their own risks and create jobs. They're rich in one thing, and that's responsibility. Therefore, I thought we should continue to reduce the taxes for both companies and Norwegian companies. It concerns a lot of people. In fact, there are extremely many in Norway who are added by entrepreneurs who take risks, so I didn't think a should talk this down and say that there is a policy just for the few. It is, in fact, a policy for everyone. If we have no risk, we don't have much to spend on the government budget in the future, because we depend on the income that private businesses contribute to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e543	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e549	The TV series Lucky Land, which I see on every Sunday night, gives us a picture of what a wonderful journey we have been through as a country, and how important political choices were made before us, are for yours and for my life and for our country. The political choices made in the 1960s and 1970s were not taken into a vacuum, but were based on a well-known political idea — a thought of securing national ownership, securing national and local value creation, based on the natural resources we have. There has been a thought where, with clear political governance, we have been willing to control the market by safeguarding vital national interests, securing national industry and pursuing an active policy for the success of our country's oil and gas resources, fisheries, soil, forests and minerals. The fact that we have had two major debates on the European Union in Norway has been quite crucial for our political space today, and that the people have also said no to the leadership of the Right, the Progress Party and the Labour Party, that we should join the European Union, and thus have been in danger of not having a currency of our own, the crown. Looking at the Norwegian economy now, it is crucial for Norway that we have our own currency. It has strengthened our competitiveness. The crown gives us more tools when we're going to be involved and deal with different situations in the economy. The Norwegian economy does not have the same development as the German economy. We, as an energy exporter, do not always have the same challenges as a major energy importer. That is why it is so important that we have had national control over energy policy and that national decisions have been the driving force behind energy policy. That's why we in the Center Party went against Acer in ours -- because that means so much. That's why it's so important that we have our own currency, the crown, and we have the governance of our currency policy. That is why it is so important that we have had elected representatives before us who have ensured that oil wealth has given us room for action today. It was not obvious that if you look at the debates, it would be like that. For example, Carl I. Hagen, who is sitting here in the hall, proposed to sell rights to the Statfjord field. Luckily, he did not get that through, because there were predictable politicians at that time, Per Borten, Lars Korvald and Trygve Bratteli, who had a long-term thinking, and who made sure that we got a national ownership – not as one did in Denmark, where it became exclusive to two private actors. So it has been absolutely essential that politicians before us have guaranteed national ownership. But is it that important today? Is there a major debate on national ownership today, in 2017–2018? I believe that the debate is as important today as it was in the 1960s and 1970s, when political leaders took political action. If you look at the investments in the Norwegian economy in the last few years, we see that the investments from Chinese players have become very large. In 2016, Chinese direct investment in the Norwegian economy amounted to 22.7 billion. kr. It was more than what was invested in the new Norwegian mainland industry in 2016. Is it wise that we do not have an active policy to secure and strengthen Norwegian ownership in 2018, when we have the capital we have? We in the Center Party believe that this is wrong. This is why we have promoted our own proposal to get a big message to discuss ownership of important national companies and to ensure the further development of an important national industry. That's the grip we're taking now, which we're going to live on in the future. So it's important to look at the oil investments: what really happened? When we heard the Right Representative instead, they got the impression that they had gone from investing in oil to investing in industry. It's actually completely wrong. They've gone from investing in oil to investing in homes. Oil investments have been around 150 billion in recent years. kr, while housing investment has been around 200 billion. kr. So the big growth factor in the last few years of the Norwegian economy has gone from oil and gas to housing investment. Industrial investment has increased only marginally. Looking at the latest data from the SSB, they assume that oil investment will increase by about a quarter. 20 B.C.E. kr next year. It's about as much as it's going to be invested in the Norwegian mainland industry. So the point is that the Norwegian mainland industry does not have large investments. The large investments have gone to homes, and now there is a slight increase in the oil and gas industry again, and that is what the economic operators are. If you go back and look at the figures from 2014, when Erna Solberg entered the Prime Minister's office, Norway had a trade deficit of 157 billion. kr from mainland Norway. Today's the 258-billion-billion-dollar trade deficit. kr. That is, we are more oil dependent today than we were before the oil crisis. There's something quite different than what you hear in all the parties. It gives the impression, when you listen to the representatives from the Progress Party and the Right who have made contributions before me, that the Norwegian economy has undergone a great transformation. But the fact is, when you look at the major macro-digits of the Norwegian economy, that we are more oil dependent now than before the oil crisis. Looking at the investments to be made in the Norwegian economy next year, the increase in oil and gas investment is likely to be faster than investment in the Norwegian mainland industry. Then the Progress Party and the Right cannot stand and decorate by a conversion. It's just party speeches and empty words. There are some things that have become very predictable with this government, and that is the unforeseeableness of the charging policy. Fortunately, we were able to achieve a broad tax settlement in Stortinget, precisely because we wanted predictability. However, for some reason, the Progress Party and the Right believe that using the charging policy can compensate for a space of action. It has hit the industry in Norway that has had the greatest willingness to invest, namely the food industry. We know that investment in the Norwegian food industry has been actively stopped this year, thanks to the arrests in the last year's budget. This is totally irresponsible. When you read the budgetary agreement from the Right, the Progress Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party, it's amazing that they can't take action quickly to strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian trade and Norwegian industry, and that they don't reverse the 350-kroner limit overnight, but they need a year to think about it. One whole year you need to think about what is going to strengthen the Norwegian industry, but one month you need to think when you're going to punish the Norwegian industry. There has been a review tone in the tax system that today’s government has. It is wrong, what the representative Njåstad spoke about instead, that the Senter party has a higher fee schedule. We have a lower fee schedule. We have over 1 billion. D less in fees than that of the Progress Party and the Right, for the fees so fundamentally flawed in social terms. It's just looking at the Minister of Finance's own figures, because those who pay the most in taxes are the ones that have the least income. They pay most of their taxes to the State through an indirect tax: taxes. So discussing fees is about distribution policy. If you're interested in distribution, you have to get the fees down, not up, as the Advance Party and the Right do in their alternative ways. I really didn't think it was possible to top last year, by 40 pst. growth of fees for an industry and 80 pst. growth of charges for another industry. I didn't think it was possible for Siv Jensen, as the Progress Party Council, to accept another new fee shop, but this year it is over 100 pst. growth of taxi charges – over 100 pst. in a year! It is totally irresponsible to hit such an important industry as targeted and then directly, without any investigation and without thought. It is not possible for the industry to adapt in such a short time. Now I'm going to go back a little bit to where I started: thanks to the strategists in the 1960s and 1970s and thanks to Carl I. Hagen was voted down, we have the opportunity to prioritize large resources today. In our alternative budget, we are prioritizing 4.2 billion. More to the municipalities, because we believe it is important to have good services close to where people live, and that the community structure available here punishes the elderly lady who needs better services. That is why we are giving it a very heavy priority and have it as a major contribution to our budget. That's why we prioritize the defense, with the Home and Army, as heavy as we do in our alternative budget, by over 1.3 billion. The defence, the army and the protection of the world's world, is a wise and important effort for the country. That's why we have the chance to prioritize 500 million. More to the police, because we believe it is important that we have a basic good preparedness around the whole of Norway, and we see an emerging crisis in much of Police Norway following the so-called near-police reform. That's why we have the chance to prioritize 500 million. kr more for local hospital. We have the opportunity to prioritise more money for medical care and strengthen the local services close to where people live, thanks to important strategic approaches from those who came before us. So when we discuss the state budget in 2018, we should thank those who ran in the 1960s and 1970s. These are the ones that have laid the foundation for the wealth that we now have. The main line of their thinking was to ensure national ownership, national value creation and national control of policy. That's what our budget line adds up to, and that's what our proposals in the state budget position add up to. With that, I'll take up the proposal of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e589	The representative, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, has taken up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e596	Social violence Vedum fell for the temptation to spread again false claims about proposals I made in the 1970s and 1980s. We had not lost any national control of the oil business, or any of the revenues, if any shares of the Statfjord field were sold to another company. That's right, then the state went out with deficits in the state budgets. We lacked money for hospitals, local hospitals and road construction. Moving some of the holdings in the Statfjord field to the state treasury, limited up to 10 billion. In order to be able to afford to build more roads, keep hospital investments and other sensible investments up, wise policy. We had not lost any control, not lost tax revenue or royalty income. It is only the profit tax of the companies and the dividends that would have been affected by this. Why does Battle Violence Vedum continue to spread falsehood about the policies of the Progress Party in the 1970s and 1980s?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e603	What Carl I. Hagen suggested and argued with regard to the Statfjord field was that one had to sell to have real income from a real sale that was to be used there and then. We disagreed with that idea in the Center Party, and we disagree with each other now, because we wanted to use those resources to build Norwegian industry. We first wanted to buy again Norsk Hydro, and then we supported the creation of Statoil to build value creation and long value chains in Norway. It has been a great success story that you had politicians then who dared to think in the long term, not in the short term, to generate income over time, and you've made it clear. It must be wonderful for Carl I. Hagen to be here and vote through a fee scheme that increases the fees for people most. If Carl I. Hagen had voted in favour of the proposal of the Center Party, the fees would have gone down, not up. This is the Progress Party we have today – increasing the fees for the usual woman and man around the whole of Norway, increasing the fees for all those who want to invest in Norwegian taxi industry, for all who live around Norway. It must be strange for Carl I. Hagen to vote for such a scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e610	At a time of significant change in the Norwegian economy, businesses across the country need stable and predictable framework conditions that promote job creation. The left-hand side's answer is a solid tax bill, strong tax incentives in Norwegian workplaces. That's bad news for the companies. It's more expensive to work, and it'll cost more to create more new jobs. Yes, this is a recipe for fewer jobs in Norway. Also the Center Party follows up. The property tax is increased by nearly 1 billion. kr, the corporate tax of nearly 2.5 billion. kr. To raise the taxes by 4.5 billion. kr seems to have become the Central Party’s new version of putting the whole country into use. My question is: why would the Senterpartiet favour foreign ownership, increase discrimination against Norwegian-owned businesses and increase taxes on small and medium-sized family-owned enterprises around the district of Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e617	If the Right Representative had read our entire budget, she would have seen that the tax and tax measures we are doing are very targeted at district companies, for example. What we do with ACER operations. It is a very targeted and good approach to investing in new Norwegian businesses around the country. When one sees the charging scheme for which the Right stands, they have directly punished those who operate in Norway. Take as an example the 350-kronor limit. If you start a business in Trøndelag, you get a high fee, but if you move it to the other side of the border – take it to Sweden – you get a lower fee. The right has led to an anti-policy of ensuring increased value creation in Norway through its tax and tax measures in recent years. Our tax measures in this budget are very targeted and very good for business around the whole of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e624	I listened with great interest to the points made by Mr Vedum regarding oil dependence and that the large investments go to the property market. I think these were good points, and there is something that SV has also been concerned about. That's why I wonder if the Center Party and the representative will be involved in a tax shift from work to property, so that we can participate in lowering this huge investment wave that we've seen in the property market, and whether it would be interesting for the Center Party to discuss the petroleum tax system, which has made it extremely profitable to invest in oil, where it is the state that takes most of the risk. Can the centre party be involved in discussing changes to the exploration fusion scheme, in the free income, in order to shift more risk to the companies and thus also to secure more investment in the mainland industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e629	No, no, no. We cannot, because we believe that Norwegian oil and gas policy has been a great success story. We believe that ownership policy has been a major success story, the way we allocate new exploration areas, has been a great success story, and the predictability of the Norwegian oil and gas sector tax policy has been a great success story. That's why we don't want to drive and stun that success, because everyone sitting in this room lives on it, and the whole of Norway is totally dependent on it. The way we regulate Norwegian oil and gas policy is about assigning new areas. But in terms of predictability, there has been a huge success, and also large parts of SV's investments are financed by oil money.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e634	Brexit has led to uncertainty in British markets, and the Brexit solution is so difficult that many Britons now dream of a Norway solution with the EEA. Then the question is, why do the Senterpartiet dare to deal with the business community in the districts by asking questions in the EEA Agreement? It is the main Norwegian trade agreement for Norwegian small businesses in the districts, and we export for 230 billion. kr of the year to the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e639	Norway’s largest export market in Europe is the United Kingdom. That is why, from the day one after it became a yes to Brexit – that is, the British people want the same thing as the Norwegian people, to be governed in the British Parliament, not in Brussels, just as the Norwegian people want to be governed in the Grand Duchy, not in Brussels – the Norwegian government should be actively working to see what opportunities and challenges lie in Brexit, and see what opportunities we have with the United Kingdom. One of the most amazing things about the behaviour of the government after Brexit is that they have emerged as a Brussels speaking body, for the European Commission. There have also been representatives from the Right who have actively said that they hope that the United Kingdom will have the worst possible agreement. Of course, it is in Norway's interest for the United Kingdom to have the best possible agreement, and then we can see how, together with the United Kingdom, as two independent countries, we can develop closer communities and close relationships. As far as the EEA is concerned, we have always been critical of a transfer of too much power from the people elected to a bureaucracy. I think that is a good point of view.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e646	With that, the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e652	Where the other parties up through have talked about an older billion, a tooth-held billion, or a climate billion, the government has now launched the concept of 0.1 pst.-billion. There are a few quite a few people this government believes in more than anything else. That's the 0.1 pst. The richest in Norway, the higher than 4,000 people who have so far received a total of 1.4 billion. kr in tax cuts. This group of 4,000 people must, in fact, be a very capable and workable group. On average, each of these have received a lower tax of 316,000 kroner. There are few other groups in society who have experienced such enthusiasm and trust from government teams. The tenth largest asset in Norway has received one third of the tax cuts up to this year. When we spend so much on a few people, I think it's a good idea to ask questions about what we get back for this use of community money. Are greenhouse gas emissions dramatically reduced, and are we on our way to achieving climate targets? How has the inequality developed in Norway? Have the differences become smaller, and have we gained stronger fellowship? Are the schools getting better for the kids? Have we put in place more skilled teachers? And how are our hospitals? Have the nurses been given better time, do they no longer have to run between the problems? The truth is that the inequality is increasing and we are far from achieving the climate goals. And the government is simply not sure what kind of effect the tax cuts have. Repeatedly, the opposition has asked the government questions to clarify what dynamic effects the government believes this creates. At present, the government has not presented facts, just resolve assumptions and political rhetoric. I don't doubt that Norway's richest has an important role in the Norwegian economy, but I doubt that a billion-dollar heir has innate qualities that make him or her uniquely suited to investing for the best of our future. But those that society would certainly not manage without are the vast majority who work and stand on every single day, in canteens, hospitals, shops, warehouses, broth cars, police and fire services. It's most people who make the really big values. That is why SV will focus on the distribution and well-being of the many, not billions of tax laws to the few. I believe in the community, that it's all of us who work together and contribute together, who will solve the climate problem, who will create a better school for all children, and who will take care of the growing differences. Norway has great opportunities to succeed, both in achieving climate goals and in transforming itself into a zero-emission society, while having strong communities and small differences. And this is connected! As the differences increase, trust in society is weakened, which is so crucial if we are to succeed in quickly converting from an oil nation to a climate nation. That's this right-hand side doesn't understand. As poverty increases, more people will have more than enough to figure out how to get their ends to meet. That's why it's crucial that the benefits of the value creation in society benefit everyone, not just an economic elite at the top. A policy for the distribution of goods is therefore essential in order to pursue an ambitious environmental policy. We live in a country that has the best conditions to show the way to the development of the zero-emission society. High skills, high productivity and trust between people are important resources that we can leverage in the transformation society needs. Man is created to lift in flocks. That's exactly what we have to do when we're going to create a fairer Norway – a Norway that's rusted for the future, a sustainable Norway, a Norway where power and wealth are distributed fairly, where we're more concerned with community than the 0.1 pst. Richest. We can build that future together. Therefore, SV has provided an alternative budget, for the many and not for the few. To build a society of small differences, courageous welfare reforms are needed that further enhance well-being. Therefore, SV prioritises increased child welfare and full-time schooling. Increased child-responsiveness will make fewer young people grow up in poverty. I'm glad that the Christian People's Party has broken the 20-year history of not increasing child welfare, but this year's budget is just the first step of many. The child's security has to go on up. Ensuring that all young people participate in the community on the same footing and get a good starting point for adult life is an investment for the future. That is why we have presented a budget for a more practical and varied school day, with more physical activity, school homework and food. This will provide a more inclusive school where creativity and learning are central, for the rest of your life. Our health system is going to take care of everyone and all of us, including our teeth. No one should delay dental visits due to poor advice. That's why it's time for a dental reform. In the long term, no one should have to pay more than NOK 2500 in dental expenses per year. SV expands public dentistry and starts in this budget the roll-out of a new major dental reform, a welfare reform for the future. We create a safe working life, where regular work is the general rule, and temporary work is the exception. In the SV budget, we propose investments that create new jobs and strengthen young people under the age of 25 their right to work or education. The housing market has become an inequality machine, where the tax system favours them with most and most expensive dwellings, while those not entering the housing market are locked outside. Therefore, SV proposes a tax shift, with a lower tax on labour and a higher tax on property. The municipalities and the state must take a more active role in the housing market, and we propose to increase the room for action to the Husbanken and build more student homes. This could make the housing market fairer. SV has also presented a budget that takes climate change seriously. On the same day as the state budget was presented, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change presented a report showing that global greenhouse gas emissions need to be reduced by 50 pst. by 2030. There is a background between the UN climate report and the State budget. And today, while we have the financial debate, climate negotiations are starting in Poland. Time is running out to meet Norway’s 2020 climate targets. In 2017, emissions were almost four million tonnes above the climate target. It corresponds to the emissions of 1.5 million fossil private cars or four highly polluting gas power plants. That is why we have put forward a concrete plan to achieve the climate objectives of this period, and this budget follows up this plan. It shows that it's possible. We choose zero emission solutions instead of greenhouse gas emissions solutions. Fossil energy must be replaced by renewable energy. We have to use the world's resources much more efficiently, and we have to travel and live far smarter. Climate risk must be integrated into all decisions. Each State budget must give priority to the climate higher than the previous one. Therefore, SV's allocation to climate action is increasing by 9 billion. kr in relation to the government's proposal. We start a green tax shift and introduce a binding climate budget for the whole of Norway. In the SV budget, we are increasing support for climate change through Enova and the Environmental Technology Fund. This will increase the development of charging infrastructure for electric cars, environmental technologies in industry, zero emissions in shipping and energy efficiency improvement. We give a big boost to collectives, bikes and gangways, prioritize rail over new motorways and increase the ambitions of river ferries in the counties. We are increasing Norway’s international climate action, such as forest conservation and climate action in developing countries. We are speeding up the phase-in of electric cars and proposing an increased air passenger charge with climate and district profiles. This is how we show that it is possible to take the climate seriously. With this budget, we show that it is possible to convert Norway and cut greenhouse gas emissions much faster than the government does. If you want. I'll get my replicants in the bargain. Because yes, it is possible to have this huge investment in welfare and climate in combination with a green redistributive tax system where people go most in positive. In order to get a fairer redistribution and reduced greenhouse gas emissions, we actually need a red and green conversion of taxes. We'll show you how that's possible. This will redistribute power and values in society. Most, those who are not the richest, those who are not in the 0.1%, will go along with these proposals, because we have a redistributive tax system, because we give priority to our common well-being, while taking the climate seriously. It is a budget for the community, for the many, and not for the few. With that, I'll take up SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e690	The representative Kari Elisabeth Kaski has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e695	SV has rightly focused on workplaces both in its speech and in the recording of today's debate. But I want to say that if you look at the content, the party has first and foremost added up to a recipe for fewer jobs. The biggest difference in Norway is between those who are at work and those who are outside. I note with some disappointment that SV has thrown itself at the populist wave of European cooperation, now last through attack on the EEA Agreement. Much of our regional exports are just going to Europe, and SV policies create uncertainty and poorer cooperation with Europe, thus jeopardising thousands of jobs in the export industry, which is often in the districts. Then my simple question to the representative: Why does SV choose to throw itself on such a wave?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e702	Let me take the first of all: this government has given huge tax cuts to the richest in Norway. It is the government that has the burden of proving how it creates jobs in Norway. When we see that development is that workers are left with a smaller share of the value creation, while the capital owners are the ones who go in plus, when the tax cuts are targeted, tax cuts on equity assets, which, after all, are a small elite among us who get the big gains from, it is the government that has to prove how it creates jobs. SV has called for an analysis of alternatives to the EEA Agreement, and I do not understand why it is so scary for the government, when the world is changing, when Europe is changing, to explore these options. We have a trade agreement in place, we still want a trade agreement in place, we want to participate in a cooperation in Europe. We also believe that the EEA agreement that we have today is undemocratic and is involved in moving decisions away from people. The government should be involved in discussing it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e709	That SV is for increased taxes and taxes, which affect most people and business, most know in this room. It's just as completely wrong medicine for a working life in change and conversion. Something else that is well known is part of SV's discovery proposals in their alternative budget. One wants to weaken the country's defence capabilities by delaying the phase-in of fighter aircraft, and one wants to make the police less mobile and resilient by cutting the purchase of new cars to the police – classic SV policy. However, what is less known is SV’s new drive to cut down on teachers’ skills. Is it a single factor that is important for Norwegian students to learn more, to complete high school and to become part of the labour market of the future, it is the competence of teachers. Why is it a good idea to cut the funds for further training of teachers with half a billion dollars?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e718	Let me first arrest the representative for a factual error in the post. If the representative had heard about my post, he would have found out that in our arrangement, most people come out positive. In fact, SV has provided alternative budgets year after year, where most people get into plus compared to the government's tax regime. So most people go in plus ours, while it's the richest ones who get the huge tax cuts with the government's arrangement. It's also the way we spend just as much money on defense and on police as this government does, but we're re-prioritizing. When you see the figures on how rapes, for example, are being investigated, I think that is the basis for discussing re-priorities in the police budget. With regard to further education of teachers, we fully agree that we need to do this, but we disagree with the government's methodology, which is about separating teachers who are in school today, who do a good job. It's about telling teachers who have worked at school for many, many years that you're not good enough. Instead of engaging in dialogue with teachers and working together on further education and, in fact, offering it, this government chooses to force it through a separation process, which means that we get fewer skilled teachers in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e727	It is fine that the representative Kaski is impatient on the climate and environment front, but I understand that in the SV's alternative state budget, there are mainly only additions to the government's good climate action. So my question is: does SV have independent proposals on how to solve the climate and environmental challenges of the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e732	We have recently, together with the Workers' Party, submitted 37 proposals to cut greenhouse gas emissions in Norway, to address the objectives of the climate agreement and to cut 50 pst. by 2030. I hope that the Left and Government parties will consider supporting these, for these are 37 entirely concrete proposals to cut greenhouse gas emissions. It's true that we're adding to our budget to a very large extent -- that's what you like to do in government budgets. You give priority to where the money's going. Take Enova, which is an amazing tool: Enova is also the tool we are using today to achieve energy efficiency improvement, to phase in zero-emission technology. But we also have to do a lot more than what is being done today. Take elf ferries along the coast: struts all around the country are set on elf ferries, but experience that they cannot afford because the state does not support it, while the counties want it. We could have done that if we had chosen to prioritise more money for it. We could have made the Norwegian industry world leader by putting in place new technologies that make them competitive in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e739	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e744	On behalf of the Left, I would like to thank Mr. Henrik Asheim for his excellent management of the budget negotiations and the Christian People's Party for having made a good decision with a view to finding solutions on the civil side. My first memory that I acted for the environment and for the future was then my speed patrol in 3. The Molde Spiedergruppe trodden up into the Molde Centre with posters against phosphate in detergents and asked the taxi drivers who let the car go idle, to turn off the engine and get a bowl. We had baked the balls ourselves, and we asked the adults to be with us and take responsibility for clean air, for clean water, for the future, for us. Getting to know and experience the nature of young years has shaped my commitment, and I understood that the Community's foremost task is to take care of the environment for present and future generations. It was this that engaged me in policy-making. The left is a social liberal party, and in social liberalism lies the profession of a society made up of individuals, but also has to act together to solve the challenges of the community. The fight for the environment and climate is the main common challenge we face. When the Left joined the government at the beginning of 2018, the fight for the environment and the climate was perhaps the most important thing for us. The government had to have a clear green stamp, and climate and environment had to be placed as one of the most central challenges in the coming years. Almost a year has passed since the Left entered the Solberg government, and the budget we are debating today bears a clear left-wing stamp. Without the Left in government, much had looked different, and the bet at school, environment and workplaces had been different. Climate and environment are big and meaningful words, but unexplained it may obscure the goals we have set ourselves. We want to take care of our planet, but also the surrounding environment, the open spaces, the forest and the fjord. When we talk about climate and the environment, it's about the future. Our kids will be able to inherit an environment where they are free to follow their dreams for the future. We know that the services, production and jobs of the future must be sustainable, but the green shift does not come about by itself. This is also what we are talking about in our budget estimates. When we grant $3.5 billion. We do this because we want a green environment and living landscapes where our kids can unfold. When we have the bet on Enova, we do it because we recognize that the private sector is the key to the transition to a greener society. It is in the private sector that technology will come to make a green shift possible, and Enova is an important piece in that transition. The same applies to Nysnø, the fund that has been Left's heartchild to speed up green innovation in Norway. The fund's got 200 million. kr in new capital and on a good path to become the heavyweight we want that fund to be. We have to use market mechanisms and incentives to get a green shift, and we do that through Enova and Nysnø. Also for the protection of nature, this budget provides for lighter times. We are making great efforts to protect the environment and nature. This government is not least taking the seas seriously, and we have put in a force to prevent marine pollution in Norway and internationally. The school may be the most important venue for liberals. It is the key to social mobility, integration and inclusion, to social formation and, yes, creation as such. That's where we equalize the difference between new and old countrymen, between boys and girls, between the worker's daughter and the diplomat's child. From Johan Sverdrup introduced the primary school laws in 1889, it has been about it. The left-wing rates at school are still about giving children and young people equal opportunities. Today it is about the boy from the reception office sitting on the same school bench as the director's daughter, and that kids who have a mother or father who are out of work for various reasons or who are suffering from illness are also allowed to go to kindergarten. The left has been aware that it is through early efforts that this cohesion has the greatest chance of success. That's why we're proud that it's our government that increases the funds for early school participation by 200 million. kr, and that it is our government that invests in teachers so that they can build up the skills needed for our kids to succeed in the future. We have strengthened vocational training in the knowledge that students need real choices and that we need a diversity in school background to fill tomorrow's jobs. We also realize that education is a lifelong process, not an inter-mediation in childhood and youth. It is clear through learning throughout life, where it is possible for adults to develop further, renew their own skills and shoes for a changing labour market throughout their lives. The two common arenas we spend the most time in are the school and the workplace. Liberalism is a struggle for freedom – the struggle for freedom to make the choices you want, to shape your own future and to live a life that is based as much on your own decisions as possible. The freedom to choose the profession you want, to apply for the job you want, to develop in the role you want, is therefore very central. That our government is therefore making a strong, united effort to create more jobs in private business is important. We have prioritised innovation and innovation. We introduce three stepping-up plans for research, make it safer to be a founder, and we increase the stock discount on working capital. It is about wanting a diverse labour market, with exciting actors delivering innovative products. R & D funds and innovation loans are just some of the tools we strengthen this budget with to implement the Labour Market Policy of the Left, a policy that increases freedom of choice, supports innovation and innovation, and facilitates the launch of the good idea. When the government presented its proposal to the government budget, it had a clear left-wing image. That image has not been weakened by the negotiations with the Christian People's Party. Now we are together on a budget – all four bourgeois parties – that strengthens the commitment to schools, the environment and the workplace, while at the same time taking care of those who need it the most. It wouldn't have happened without the left. I'm proud that we're delivering a budget here where it's noticed that a social-liberal party is sitting around the negotiating table.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e774	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e779	The government speaks nicely about the Norwegian model, and it is important that people organize themselves. But this year's budgetary work shows that there is a little lack of understanding of what it means. In the State, the organisations negotiate with the Minister for Local Government rates to cover the cost of missions, and the State regulation is the result of negotiations. In the State budget, the Minister of Finance says that travel rates in Norway are too liberal and that parts of it have to be taxed. In the subsequent budgetary negotiations, the same was done for missions abroad. This shows that there is a lack of fundamental respect for the social partners. It is no better if the head of the financial committee says that this is simplification for businesses, because it is the opposite when, as an employer, you have to keep track of what is inside and what is outside the taxable person. The left is concerned with simplification, so I wonder if the representative, Schytz, can answer if this is part of the simplification process, or is there a new version of the fare or bag tax that will bring the budget together?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e786	The left is concerned with simplification, and we believe that the adjustments made now, with the changed diet code and the taxing of tips, also give a total simplification. Tips have always been taxable, and now we're just making it clearer who's going to report, and how it's going to be done. There are also accounting rules from the new year that ensure that the employer will in any case have an overview of the payment of tips. We also believe that the changes to the diet code apply only to those who have previously made money on the difference in diet rates and the actual price/cost of goods. We put people first and not business travel abroad first.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e791	Like Schytz, I am also an old woodpecker, and my environmental and climate exposure also came from there, but the use of the instrument is probably a little different. The Jeleia Declaration states that climate objectives are to be achieved ‘at the lowest possible cost and with the greatest possible certainty’. Therefore, I am surprised that the government has not provided for a very low-hanging fruit that will provide great climate change quickly and will help to phase in new low-cost technologies, namely a CO 2 fund for business transport, recommended in the road map for competitive and zero-emission transport, well-tested from the NO x fund model and recommended by both the Environment Directorate in a report ordered by the government and a mission report commissioned by the NHO, which shows great potential for rapid cuts in the sector facing the largest emissions in the quota sector. Surprisingly, Left has never prioritised this, not in opposition, but not in position. The left is clearly more concerned with a fiscal increase in the fuel tax than with the use of effective instruments. Why doesn't Left want this?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e804	The left wants to look at all the tools that can be cut in the transport sector and we do that on a broad front. It is also important to find new means of reducing emissions in the transport sector, not least for heavy-duty vehicles. New instruments are needed here. We have instruments today, including: It's about tolls, but we also need new tools. I hope we can find more. With regard to the CO 2 fund for business transport, the Left is open to it, we just have to find a way to do it that works better than the one that is proposed today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e812	The representative's memories of her first environmental exposure were quite similar to mine, although I may not remember balls as well, but rather more nordic excavating along the way. When we look at the government budget that has been presented, and look at the environmental profile, there is, as the representative has in the past, some continuation of climate policy there is a broad consensus about Norway, but there are also things to be critical of. First of all, we see a cut in forest protection, which is worrying. Secondly, with the projections that are there, the budget adds that we are going to cut greenhouse gas emissions in Norway by 13 pst. into 2030, instead of what the Intergovernmental Panel requires of us: 50 pst. towards 2030. This is worrying. In the past, the Left has prioritised a charge for mining waste. SV is going to make suggestions on that. Is there anything that Left will be able to support?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e821	The left will support the government and the state budget of the bourgeois parties. But I'm otherwise concerned with mining waste, so we're going to have to do another round.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e826	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e831	I would also like to start my post by thanking the conciliators from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left for a good job in a short time. Several have mentioned the thorough political process of the Christian People's Party around choice in recent months, and many have had enough of different annual meetings with the choice of so-called red and blue delegates, but it has been so important for the Christian People's Party to work on what we have called the 'political project', which is what the Christian People's Party is going to fight for. Christian democracy is based on the Christian vision, that all people have the same value, and it obliges the Christian People's Party in many important matters. It's based on the idea of love, that everyone has a responsibility to take care of each other, on our fellow human beings, and it's a limitless responsibility. It is based on the responsibility of the administrator, the idea of taking care of the creation and managing it for the best for the future generations as well, and taking care of the resources we have today, distributing them in the best possible way, but also thinking about the generations of the future. We bring forward important common values that we want to carry on. We promise the Christian cultural heritage, which we believe has served Norway well, and which will serve Norway well by building on it in the future as well. We fight to preserve and strengthen the social communities. But a community is not just the state or the public. The most important community is the family, it's the neighborhood, it's the volunteer, it's the businesses, that's what's happening around the country. The Community in the form of public services is incredibly important, that it should be there as a strong safety net for those who need it. That is why we are talking about sustainable welfare societies, not sustainable welfare countries. We want to build society from below, because we think those who are closest to the decisions, also know what's best for them. That is why we are well pleased with the budgetary agreement that lies here, because it builds up precisely that, that jobs must be created, and values must be created. After all, work is human dignity. Being allowed to contribute to society with its qualities, being allowed to support its family and itself, is incredibly important. But it's also important for society that as many people as possible have a job to do. What we're doing with our conciliators, and as we've done in recent years, is that the transport effort – in road, rail, infrastructure – has increased by 75 pst. since 2013. In knowledge and research, there has been a great boost, and the joy is that policy also works: fewer drop out of high school today, and early efforts have been reinforced. Thanks to the teacher's norm it will come to the harvest approx. Two thousand more teachers in school than it was in 2013. In the 2019 budget, we are introducing a mentoring system. We set aside money to make it easier for the newly-trained teachers to find a place in the classroom and get an experienced teacher to help them get started. We know that it is a challenge that many new teachers choose to quit. What happens in the field of knowledge is extremely important to succeed in the transformation that we know lies ahead of us, and will also be a basis for having the employees we need. But also on tax, important things happen, both the lowering of corporate taxes and also the taxes on wealth, taxes on working capital. This means that corporate owners around the districts, who have previously had to pay taxes, whether they are on the tractor or on their equipment and on their machines, even if they do not have profits in their business, receive even less tax in 2019. The 350-kroner limit – which we have discussed many times, namely that one must pay VAT from the first kroner on goods a buyer from Norwegian online shops, while one does not do so from foreign online shops – is to be removed from 2020. Then we avoid what the Swedes experienced, that many packages came at once, that consumers were not allowed to change, and that one was not allowed to adapt the arrangements, but we are doing it in a good way, that helps to create security for the 380 000 people who work in the commercial sector. The broadband bet: We get 100 million. extra kr to build broadband. It's extremely important, not just for living around the country, but also for operating businesses throughout the country. I said that families are one of the most important – if not the most important – communities, and ensuring safe growth must be one of the main tasks of politicians. We believe that when you give trust, and when you give freedom of choice to your families, your families also succeed better, because they can do things that best suit their families. We are pleased and proud that child welfare is increasing by NOK 1000. I really don't understand that the thousand-note extra a year for the families of children is involved in breaking the line of work. This is a benefit that you get regardless of whether you are at work or not, but it helps especially those families who have poor advice. The Christian People's Party has a clear direction towards child welfare. We want our own reform that makes it also financed by those who serve the most, and it also means the most to those who have little. We're also happy to increase the one-time benefit to $83 000. I also think it's worth reflecting on this: of two students who have just completed their education, one, who has come straight out of work, can get birth grants of up to 6 G, almost 600,000, while the other, who then does not get out of work, gets only 83,000 kroner. There's little justice associated with this. When we know that one third of those who choose to have an abortion have previously referred to economic reasons, we know that the one-time benefit can be important to them. Those who have little need, regardless of the baby carriage and everything else that costs quite a lot in the first year, and therefore we believe that this is an important step. In kindergarten, we're raising 160 million. extra kr to strengthen the manning. It's important. Building up enough kindergartens and a good crew is important, because real freedom of choice only gets you when you have a choice. We are also proud that we have managed to continue and strengthen the cash support in parallel, but it is rare that the $7,500 you get a month, that delays or makes a choice to be at home, or that a lack of work motivation and therefore chooses to be at home with cash support. Those who have been home with a one-year-old know that there is probably as much work as sitting at the office desk. It's about the families doing what they think is best for themselves and their family, that the one-year-old might need a little longer time, that he can go first, that he can talk a little more before a person wants to send him to the kindergarten, or what they justify it with. That is simply freedom of choice. This is also a good budget for volunteering. We ensure the historical pension costs of non-profit organisations, which would make it almost impossible for them to win tenders for a long time. There will be costs that are up to 1.7 billion. It's perhaps the most important thing that's been done for the non-profit sector in a long time, and that will mean a huge amount to them. But we also increase the VAT compensation. It was done a lot in the budget, but we're further increasing it by 50 million. kr, which is important for voluntary activity. The Norwegian Church's getting a $70 million raise. kr, and we increase the tax deduction for non-governmental organisations to 50,000, so that the revenue for voluntary organisations will increase. This is also an important budget for helping those who have at least in Norway, whether there is a free core time in kindergarten, for even more people to be able to use the nursery facilities, for a number of holiday and leisure services, or for a further 4000 kroner to the minimum pensioners next year. Once again, the Christian People's Party is able to lift that group. It is also important to combat violence and abuse against children. We know that as a society we don't do a good enough job. One in ten girls gets sexually assaulted before they're 18 years old. More prevention is needed. One in five children is subjected to violence or abuse. This must be prevented and controlled. For the Christian People's Party, it's always important to have a global responsibility, to take a global responsibility, and that's why we're proud of what we do in climate too. Support for Enova will increase by 450 million in 2019. kr. There is an important focus on different measures, such as: on climate action in municipalities, which increases by 50 million. kr. It is an important proposal that goes on palm oil in biofuels. Our goal is to get rid of palm oil completely, precisely because the cutting of rainforest is one of the greatest threats to climate change. Assistance is also extremely important for the development of more renewable energy. We know that if renewable energy is built instead of coal power, it will mean an enormous amount. That is why we also have important measures in relation to investment. From 2018 to 2019, the aid budget will increase by 2.5 billion. kr. It means enormously much to those who have the least, and it is the Christian People's Party proud of.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e869	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e874	The representative Robbie is the most zealous champion of the Christian People's Party entering today's government, a government that goes into its sixth year with tax cuts for the richest and high oil money usage, without having a big project left. There are no major social reforms or savings reforms. Looking at the impact of the budgetary agreement, we see that in the priorities of the Christian People's Party there are many traces of small and large spending supplements, but few traces of reforms. The representative Robstad said in his speech that strengthening aid, more to social communities, to family, secure safe growth and climate action that works, was an important project for the Christian People's Party. I'm in it. But the projects and the original budget presented by the government are a little bit colliding. How are these tasks to be financed?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e882	For the Christian People's Party, it is very important that both ensure sustainability in the welfare community and – as I said in my post – be able to create jobs. That's why we're proud of what we've done, whether it's been taxes, or there's been investment in transportation or in knowledge, which we know will be absolutely crucial – for one thing is getting through the difficult time we've had in recent years, with the oil price drop, but not least the change that we know will come forward, when the oil industry will be less important than today. This means that there is a clear need to create new jobs. Through this growth one will also be able to finance what we think is extremely important, namely to bet on early action, growth. If the Christian People's Party succeeds in entering the government, fighting for early action and for families will be one of the most important promises. It's an investment, because if we don't manage to have enough children or to secure growth, it'll be much more expensive in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e889	The Christian People's Party and the Center Party have agreed to remove the completely unreasonable subsidisation of foreign online commerce, which has hit Norwegian businesses hard. When the representative Rugged on death and life wants to settle the budget with the crowd he does, it is at least good that he has not negotiated away a clear majority in this matter, which is to remove the 350-kroner limit. At the same time, this is just a decision of principle. Throughout 2019, discrimination against Norwegian business will continue. I – and the Central Party – agree that one should have predictability, that one should not make major changes too quickly. Why, then, does the representative, Mr Ropstad, think this makes sense? One could, for example: said on 1 December next year, a non-recovery of the tax message that hit the taxi industry, as for example. driving wheelchair users. Why is it reasonable to push at the 350-kroner limit, while at the same time taking a tax call for the taxi industry over the night?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e896	First, I would like to commend the representative Gülsvik and the Central Party for having been very clear in the debate around the 350-kroner limit. It is important for the business community in Norway, it is important for the commercial industry, and it is important for jobs, so it has been good that the Storting has pressed as much as they have. As far as the taxi industry is concerned, I just disagree. I believe that the taxi industry should also have climate requirements. I think it's important to meet the transition that needs to come. I think that's an important grip. So I agree that someone could take it earlier. In the alternative budget of the Christian People's Party, we took it a few months earlier. We believe that this would have been possible, but a compromise with the government was 1 January 2020. I think that is a good solution, which I know also creates predictability for not least the Post, which will have some challenges. This is a decision that will be followed up and will mean a lot — both for value creation in Norway and, hopefully, for creating more jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e905	One says here on 1 January 2020. That's another 13 months. It is fully possible to introduce a new arrangement long before that, as the representative pointed out also in the alternative budget of the Christian People's Party. In the case of tax messages for the taxi industry, which for some car models that run wheelchair users, will be nearly NOK 250000 – and which will come from 1 January: Why does the representative Ropstad, when talking about predictability, consider it reasonable to introduce such a heavy night tax notice, which will affect those who use taxis in the districts, for example?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e912	It is certainly always good to have better time to adjust to different charges, but when the car charges are set from 1 January, it is clear what the price of the car will be when you are going to shop for a new car next year. I am aware that this will probably mean that a choice of other types of solutions, but not least give the good incentive to choose cars that are more environmentally friendly. The example to which the representative Gülsvik refers is perhaps one of the most prominent. I am absolutely sure that one will find examples of other types of cars that do not have the same fee increase and that are more environmentally friendly. The very best thing is if this is involved in developing new cars that are zero-emission cars, which we also know must be the target, then a clear one will succeed with the climate change that we need.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e919	In the autumn, the Christian People's Party has done more to increase child's fear than both red-green and blue parties have done in the last 20 years. It deserves to be praised by the Christian People's Party. At the same time, almost 50,000 children and their families will never see anything about this money, since they receive social assistance and the municipality in which they live, cut in the amount, since they get child welfare. This means that those who need the child's peace of mind, maybe the most, don't see the twist of it. We have to fix that. We have a proposal that we have made that will solve the problem. That proposal does not have budgetary implications, and it is in practice – I believe – adopted Christian People's Party policy. Nevertheless, Ropstad has announced that the Christian People's Party will not support the proposal. I wonder why this case is not important enough for the Christian People's Party to vote in favour of its primary policy, and ensure that also these children, the poorest among the children of Norway, receive child welfare next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e928	Thank you for the party Red. I note that and am grateful for it. We're proud of the increase we've made in child's care. It's true, as the representative of Moxnes says, that the Christian People's Party also wants you not to be able to count child welfare as income when a person calculates social assistance. I wish that had been the case in all municipalities. That we announced that we are not going to vote in favour was because you have an overall agreement relating to the budget with the government parties. So I want to make it clear that when you're talking about up to 50,000 children, I can't guarantee it quality and be sure that it's a correct number – but I see it's referred to by, among other things. The newspaper. When you get social assistance, it's a temporary benefit. This does not mean that there are 50,000 people who are not benefiting from the increase in child welfare — or to the extent that the total amount of child welfare is — during 2019. On average, social assistance is provided for less than half a year. Hopefully, you get to other types of social benefits faster than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e937	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e942	In the government budget, the government writes in black and white that with today's policy measures, the government is proposing to break the climate deal. All of the lots here in the Chamber, with the exception of the Red Party and the Advance Party, were included in this Decision, which states that by 2020 Norway’s emissions shall not exceed 46 to 48 million tonnes of CO 2. In the government budget for next year, the government writes black on white that they are 3 million tonnes of CO 2 away from the climate cuts we're going to take home here by 2020, according to the agreed climate agreement. But since the Solberg government joined in 2013, it has managed to cut – and hold on to – 1 million tonnes of CO 2. In just two years, the government will have to cut three times as much to meet the Biggest decision. But proper action is required to triple climate cuts in just two years, and we find no such action in this state budget. We are therefore very curious about what climate magic the government will pull off the hat that they have not yet presented to the public. We're looking at it as completely unlikely that a government that spent five years cutting 1 million tonnes, now will be able to handle 3 million tonnes in two years without any new measures. That is why, in the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/ Greens/ Greens/ Greens/ Greens/European Greens/ Greens/European Greens/European Greens/ Greens/ Greens/ Greens/ Greens/ Greens/ Greens/ Greens/ Greens/ Greens/ Greens/ Greens/ Greens/ Greens/ Greens/ Greens/ Greens/ Greens/ Greens/ Greens/ Greens/ We struggle to understand that the Workers' Party, SV, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party choose to peace such a government. The State budget is the main governance tool for Norway, also for climate policy, and it is the basis for distrust of the Solberg government because one does not meet the Storting's will for climate change either in the 2019 government budget. That is why we are today promoting a motion of censure, and I am glad that Red has announced support for it. The Greens' Environment Party, around 100,000 voters, is now deeply sorry that the Storting is adopting great climate goals without the government following them up. Erna Solberg's predecessor, Jens Stoltenberg, wrote in his autobiography the following: «As the date approaches and we see that it becomes difficult, we stop talking about this goal, and instead set new goals further ahead. That's how we cheated ourselves several times." I don't know who Stoltenberg thinks he has cheated, but the climate itself has been thoroughly deceived by all the prime ministers and environmental ministers since 1990. Therefore, enough of this unworthy game. For too long, the Storting has accepted a waiting-and-see strategy and left government out of the budget by budget without the necessary measures. It is therefore time to do something after years of abduction, because climate change is now here. I think that both dried farmers in South Norway and Skåk-inhabitants who lost houses and roads in the flood in the fall feel that way. It is not impossible to achieve the 2020 target. The Greens' alternative budget and its climate budget show that it is possible as long as the political will is there. Climate policy is often too complicated. Erna Solberg knows what's needed, but she just won't do it. She and the climate minister talk green and wash green about electric cars and electric ferries and Enova and that instead. Yeah, that's good, but far from it. That is why we are also promoting another proposal today, together with the Workers' Party, Red and SV. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Norwegian State budget to be created and promoted with sectoral emission budgets from 2020 onwards, with a list of measures and expected climate impact. The overview shall show how Norwegian emissions cut to reach at least 40 pst. reduction in the non-quota sector by 2030 shall take place in Norway.’» It now rests a heavy historical responsibility on the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. If our proposal has a majority, it is revolutionary for Norwegian climate policy. We finally stated that we should take responsibility for the climate here in Norway too, not just buy us abroad. It's necessary to put an end to the self-deception. I refer to the Greens' proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e976	The representative Per Espen Stoknes has drawn up the suggestions he made. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e983	Norway is the world's best country to live in, and if it is to continue, we need to create more and take care of the jobs we have, while we change. The NRK series Lykkeland tells the story of the oil, the industrial venture that gave Norway great incomes and opportunities. But it seems that the Greens have forgotten how we got the country. They provide the Norwegian oil fund, but they want to cut the industry that provides the revenues. They say that they want companies to convert, but send the same companies a tax return of tens of billions. This year, they're gonna take $38 billion. NOK, next year NOK 46 billion. kr. Not even the Snåsa-man dares predict how many billions there will be next time. How does the representative feel that increased taxes and red figures on the bottom line should contribute to more jobs and green conversion? And how does the representative feel that shutting down our biggest industry should contribute to better well-being in the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e989	I thank you for the question and can inform the representative that green taxes mean that you collect money, which is then spent on what is good for business, nature and community. In other words, we bring in 45 billion. kr that goes straight out again to make Norway greener, more value-creating and fairer. We do that by reverseing the decline in green taxes as a share of GDP – since 1995. The government has helped bring down green taxes, against the good advice of economists. I'm going to give you 15 billion. In the area of fruit, greenery and climate change tax for distribution – which most people can get. We create more jobs, including: by reducing the employer’s fee by 5 billion. kr. So let's give Enova 5 billion. Extra kroner. The rest goes to distribution, lower taxes for those with lower incomes, and we have lower oil money consumption than the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e994	I notice that the representative has no control over his own state budget. That's 46 billion. kr they are going to pick up, and unlike the representative, I don't think there are fruits that are going to save the world from the climate crisis. Now we see that we have a big challenge in creating more green jobs. We will, and that is why the government has doubled the grant to climate technology. We are closer than ever to reaching the climate commitments we have undertaken. But then the solution is not to cut our main industry, which gives us the opportunity to invest in new technologies. The solution is not to cut an industry of natural gas, which has caused emissions in Europe to fall. How does the representative feel about cutting down hundreds of thousands of jobs, raising taxes by 46 billion? and pursue a policy that will, in reality, contribute to more carbon in Europe, will contribute to better climate and better well-being?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1000	It's almost comical, but over and over again it presents a scare image of the Greens as if we're going to lay down 200,000 jobs next year. The only thing we are in favour of is that we stop publishing more new fields, so that we do not overinvest in gas and oil production in the 2030s, when EU gas demand is falling. The EU does not want that gas in the 2030s. The gas is a bridge that goes out a little bit in 2020, and then it ends somewhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1004	Thanks also for the clarification of the budget, which I have full control of – although I was called up last night. It's about 15 billion. kr goes to the fee bill, 5 brd. kr goes to jobs – reduced employer’s fee – and 5 billion. kr extra goes to Enova. It's a total of 25 billion. kr. The next 20 billion. kr is used mainly for social distribution: lower taxes for those with low income, increased child welfare, free kindergarten, and not least increased funds for the municipality – and in particular green business development, green innovation and green entrepreneurship. That's 45 billion. Total NOK
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1007	So that's 46 billion. kr in increased taxes and charges net, even when you have deducted them from it by reducing them. To introduce 46 billion. kr in increased taxes and charges net, in one year, will also have a major impact on the many enterprises that are now making a vigorous effort to convert into new green industries. The International Energy Agency, and the head of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, have themselves said that it is fully possible to operate Norwegian oil and gas activities while taking into account the climate. It's not about shutting down our most important industry, while using the resources that the industry gives us to convert and invest in new, green jobs. The representative says it's not about distributing more fields. But who wants to bet on an industry that you know the Greens, if they put their power, will shut down? No one will. We have to give the industry predictability and use the capital to convert new green industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1014	Again, the billions we collect in increased green taxes are used to contribute to a forward-looking transition and new jobs that are safe. Safe jobs are linked to real green growth, and resource productivity in business can be improved much faster than it is in Norway today. There we can look at and learn from Denmark and Sweden, where we, for example: sees that their green charges go up significantly in relation to the Norwegians, which go down. We also have a model where we distribute this evenly, so that a standard family will only get approx. 100 kroner per member of the family at increased costs, while a family that does a little reworking can make up to 8 000 dollars to convert into more resource-efficient consumption. It also means that there is a greater demand in business for real green products.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1019	I would like to continue a little bit where Stakkebø left off, because I have also tried to read the draft budget for the Greens. There was a lot of expenditure, little income, we're going to spend more, and we're going to work less. Petroleum industry has been Norway's main industry for many decades and has given us the welfare society we have today. I then record that the Greens will cut down almost all the measures that help maintain that industry. They will eliminate all appropriations for exploration, remove reimbursement arrangements and increase taxes, while retaining revenue and all jobs. It's amazingly well done. When they are of the opinion that it takes so much change to stop the emissions that we have today, why not dare the Greens to stand up and tell us about the huge consequences such a policy will have for society and our well-being today?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1026	I thank the representative Halleland for an excellent opportunity to stand up and tell us how this can be done. Today, we have an industry that produces something to destroy our climate, and that will have higher and higher risks associated with long-term investment for each year we move forward. We want a planned, predictable, clear restructuring of Norwegian business, where we gradually maximise production from existing fields and at the same time reduce the need for labour by approx. 10,000 a year, re-schooling them to green industries. Then we will eventually become a common Scandinavian country with an industry and industrial structure that is much more similar to Sweden and Denmark. Of the 10,000, 7 000 will mainly go to knowledge industries and service industries, 2000 will go to new industries, and 1000 will go to primary industries. In this way you get a gradual twist of the nutrient structure towards what's green.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1031	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1036	The emergence of Difference Norway is our biggest challenge as a society, but we are not doing anything about the distribution of power and wealth in order neither to ensure the security of the labour market, to strengthen well-being or to resolve the climate crisis. This isn't just about poor and rich, it's also about power distribution, about who gets to influence social development. Therefore, combating the emergence of Difference Norway should be the main task of a State budget. It's about what kind of society our children are going to grow up in. Will they grow up and get it better and safer than their parents, to which generation after generation has become accustomed, or is there more insecurity, increased class divisions and enormous climate damage waiting for them? Unfortunately, the government's proposals have a bad course towards the latest. We do not lack resources, technology or competence to solve climate problems, and we do not lack money, food or opportunities to reduce the increasing differences. What is missing is political will. But fortunately, it is possible to reverse developments, and our draft budget is a plan for a political turning point, a plan that shows that it is possible to reduce the difference between those at the top and the others, that it is possible to cut greenhouse gas emissions, and that it is possible to expand and strengthen the community. I'll give you five examples of that: First of all, we show that it's possible to start phased into free dental health. With our proposal, it would be free for everyone up to 25 years, and by the way, we're introducing 40 pst. lower price for all expenses above NOK 2000. Secondly, we increase child welfare by approx. the double of what the budgetary agreement proposes, and perhaps most importantly: the increase applies to all, including the almost 50,000 children who see nothing of the increase in the Christian People's Party since they are in, receiving social support. Third, we're going to be 8 billion. SEK more for the free income of municipalities, 8 billion. kr that can be used to strengthen well-being. Fourthly, we show that free kindergarten is possible in the long term, by phasing in free kindergarten for the five-year-olds. Last, but not least, we are increasing social assistance rates by 25 p.m., a powerful measure to combat poverty for many in Norway. These five examples are just one of what we could get if the Red's budget proposal had a majority. It is a proposal that is thoughtful, reworked and feasible, a proposal that uses no more oil money than the government, but that priorities differently. We use e.g. not to provide money for a new Reichsmanship in Norway, as the government does, with tax gifts in the billions class. On the other hand, we introduce a new dynasty tax, with increased taxes on wealth, whether it be income, inheritance or dividends. Because it is not fair that values created by many jointly, increasingly, end up with a minority on the top. Nor is it fair that it should pay more to inherit than to work. Nor is it fair that our common natural resources are used to build wealth in a few. Then it is only right and fair to demand something back in taxes to the community. The government's draft budget for 2019 could hardly have been more dramatic. The UN conclusion is clear: radical measures are needed to prevent a catastrophic rise in temperature. These measures are unfortunately absent from the government budget. The climate crisis requires political action. We will take that into account in our proposal. We cut polluting motorways and increase investment into the railways, put money into shore-side electricity for ships, elves and the development of electric cars in residential areas, cut the price of all train tickets by 20 pst., increase the CO2 charge and also propose to wind down the search for fusion – because it is possible and necessary and because it is urgent. With that, I will address Red's proposals for the 2019 government budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1057	The representative Bears Moxnes has drawn up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1065	I want to begin by congratulating Red on his first alternative state budget, which has been revised. The representative has got his staff in place. Many questions and concerns we had last year that were difficult to answer, we have received a reply this year – perhaps even answers to more than what we dared to ask for. Red spoke in its budget about opportunities, that it is possible to invest in value creation throughout the country, that it is possible to strengthen the community, have an independent defence, etc. Let's take the defense: the representative of Moxnes will scrape the F-35 fighter plane because they believe that a Nordic defence with coastguard and mobile air protection should be enough. Will the representative then sell the aircraft we have already received to increase Norway's arms exports as a maximum and dramatically as possible? Or will he leave these U.S. aggressive military strategic weapons standing unused and without a roof on the island, while Russian strategic bombers are on the move off the coast?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1073	Our aim is to strengthen the defence of Norway, and that is what we are strengthening. We spend more money on strengthening the Army, the Home Guard, the Coast Guard and the Maritime Defense. Let's use 1 billion. kr more on the purchase of weapons that strengthen the defence of Norway. We're actually spending more than the government on defense in sum. But these fighter planes from the United States, which are probably well suited to fly into enemy territory and drop bombs, we don't want to buy any more of them. We want to scrape the fighter aircraft purchase. It is so expensive and so huge in investments that it will lead to the rest of the defense going too lye and cold water. Even the defense officers say this is so expensive and so extensive that it affects the rest of the country's defence capabilities. If the goal is to provide a good territorial defense, we are rather to strengthen the army, home security, coastguard and maritime defence, but to drop the fighter aircraft buy from the United States.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1078	I did not get an answer to that. F-16's on the way out and F-35's on the way in. If we're going to scrape what's coming in, we need to have something to replace if we're going to have air domination in this kingdom. Red goes on to say in its alternative budget that value creation across the country is possible with their budget. That heading really lacks one last part: the part that value creation across the country is possible – we're just going to take the money one has to invest in its own business and its own employees, collect them into Oslo and then distribute them again through a support scheme, where we're assessing whether the idea is good enough or not. I would assume that a logical consequence of such a heading is that today it is not possible to drive value creation across the country, although we know that the growth of the Norwegian economy is not just along the South and West countries as a result of an increase in oil prices, although we know that growth is happening throughout the country, in most industries, and that unemployment is going down. Where in Norway does Red think that value creation is not possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1085	We have a policy of increased value creation across the country. We're increasing the tax on the profits of the companies. It's right and fair because they're totally dependent on our infrastructure, that we build and pay for ports, roads, tunnels, bridges and for the workforce that's trained, and that they also get paid if people get sick and need help in health care. We'll pay for this together. We depend on the community. At the same time, we're increasing investment, we're spending 1.2 billion. I should like to say a few words about the Commission's proposals. We will develop pilot projects for floating sea winds, which we have talked about, we will spend more on the construction of ferries in Norwegian shipyards, we will also upgrade hydropower plants and support the industry. So we have a policy that brings something more into the community from those who have the largest incomes, dividends and wealth, but we're also going to spend a lot of money strengthening Norwegian industry and Norwegian value creation across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1092	I didn't realize that it was Red that was going to go in for a new fund to invest in private companies on the world's stock exchanges to maximize profit for their owners, i.e. us. In their draft budget, Red writes that they will increase the apprenticeship grant and set up a fund to equip workshops in a professional field. For this item, it's set at 160 million. kr. We have increased the apprenticeship grant by NOK 21 000, and I guess if Red wants to increase it too, they're going to do it properly. So if we assume that it's $7,500, that's $150 million. kr. Then you have 10 million. kr left to this fund. With a return of 5 pst. This will amount to approx. 500000 kroner, which is going to be approx. NOK 30 000 when it is distributed to each state. I understand that funds and returns may be difficult for Red, but have I understood this entry in the draft budget correctly, so that Red's upgrading of workshops in the professional field is limited to a wholesale shop at Jula, where each school can get a new shelf?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1101	It's probably a little bit misunderstood by the Progress Party. We have a commitment to education in our alternative budget as, among other things, involves a workshop fund which is just to go to better equipment, increased equipment grants and increased apprenticeship grants. At the same time, we have a policy to ensure that professionals can get a place to learn. We see that the Progress Party and the government have no special means of ensuring that companies offer apprentices enough apprenticeships, because this includes, among other things. are cheaper and easier to collect professionals from the EEA territory – fully skilled – rather than providing rooms for apprentices in Norwegian enterprises. We need to look at investment in the professional sector both in isolation and in conjunction with the policies pursued for labour immigration and for the EEA. The problem is that the unregulated flow of labour undermines the possibilities for Norwegian skilled workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1108	If we're going to talk about the company's framework conditions, the taxes on wealth are important. It wants red to increase by 10.6 billion. kr – a tax that does not determine what to pay. Money that companies could use for initial investment in the company, to strengthen competitiveness or to maintain jobs, is therefore money Red wants to take in. I really miss an explanation of why this is what we call hybrid socialism, it's got sprouts and sprouts, and it's so messed up in this country. What is a super-rich foreign ultra-capitalist doing that is so fantastic that Norwegian socialists defend that they should get special advantages from owning businesses in Norway, while a Norwegian-owned family business has to pay a special tax to compete against them in their own home market?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1113	Firstly, it is strange that the government parties have no evidence whatsoever that their huge tax cuts to businesses and owners have given any new jobs. There is no evidence available. They've been honest about that in Stortinget. Secondly, what we do with the taxes on wealth, unfortunately – but also quite true – is quite moderate changes. We keep today's bottom deductions, which are higher than it was in 2013, and introduce the same rate as in 2013. The difference is a new rate of wealth over 10 million. kr. It's not a very radical proposal, but it's necessary to collect money into the community, bet on well-being and not cut into it, expand care for the elderly, kindergartens, free dentistry, etc. And so there's money we're collecting from those who have the most, and who can contribute more to the community, which we're totally dependent on to secure the split layer in the future and not least be able to expand welfare rather than have a policy that cuts in common well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1120	As a result, the string shift has ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1125	Let me start by thanking those who have negotiated the budgetary unity between the government parties and the Christian People's Party. We are now getting a good government budget for 2019. While we are debating the state budget today, it is a normal Monday for most people – everyday. As politicians, we must take seriously the concerns and problems common to ordinary people face in their lives. And the aim of this state budget is precisely to simplify and improve the Norwegian everyday life. That's why we're focusing on some of the things that matter most – security, jobs, our welfare community. The backbone of any state budget is the state of the Norwegian economy. It is now going well in the Norwegian economy. The growth is good. Let me remind you that this is not a matter of course – on the contrary. In 2014, we experienced a dramatic fall in oil prices that had major consequences – which fortunately we have been coping with in a good way. This year’s growth is expected to exceed its long-term trend, and it is expected to continue in the next few years. Improved competitiveness facilitates higher investments and exports. Increased purchasing power is increasing household consumption. The oil industry, too, is doing better. For the first time in four years, petroleum investment is expected to rise. The oil price fluctuates a bit, but is expected to lie above the low level a few years ago. At the same time, I am concerned about the growing resistance to globalisation and the increasing protectionism that we are looking out for. As a small country with large natural resources, we are particularly vulnerable. The prosperity of Norway is heavily dependent on trade and open markets. The best thing we can do is keep working for free trade. If we meet protectionism with increased protectionism, we fail. The budget for next year is a responsible budget, well adapted to the economic situation. For 2019, the use of oil revenues remains unchanged as a share of the mainland economy. This means that the budget operates neutrally on the activity of the economy – the budget impulse is zero. This is the third year of approximately neutral budgetary policy, down from an average budgetary impulse of 0.7 pst. in the years following the fall in oil prices. We have reduced the growth in the use of oil money in order not to put pressure on the krone price and the competitive sector. For Norwegian jobs and the transition to the Norwegian economy, it is essential that we protect the improvement we have had in competitiveness. Then we have to hold back on public budgets. The Labour Party says that they are engaged in a responsible economic policy, but as usual they will increase the expenditure growth in the budget. It is of little help to those in the competitive sector that the Workers' Party prioritises increased trade union deductions when at the same time it places Norwegian jobs in play. Why is it so important that things go well in the Norwegian economy? That's because good economic development gives jobs to more people. More people can use their everyday life to work rather than leave. Several are given the opportunity to raise their family's finances. The level of wealth is growing – paid with wages and salaries from your own work. We see the positive developments in the labour market well. Employment is increasing markedly and has now increased by 75 000 people in the last two years. The availability has decreased significantly. It is about one percentage point lower than it was at its highest in winter 2016. At the same time, more people report to the labour market. The workforce has increased by 55,000 people in the last year. There is a rise in the proportion of the active age population who work, after several years of decline. In the future, it is about continuing to include more in the labour market. That's why we want to actively use the good times. We need to do the right things to build Norway stronger. And just as important as how much money we spend, is how we spend the money on the state budget. The government continues to invest in growth-enhancing tax relief, transport, research and education. There are investments that increase the growth capacity of the economy and support it in the course of the necessary transformations. The State budget also contributes to making the tax system more social by reducing the tax on property and electricity. With the 2019 budget, the government has reduced total taxes and taxes by under 25 billion. kr since we joined. A normal family with two full-time incomes has received about NOK 11000 in reduced tax. In the 2019 budget, corporate tax is further reduced to 22 p.m. Norway has the highest rate in the Nordic region of corporate tax – despite the fact that we have reduced it year after year. The marginal tax rate on labour income is also lower for the vast majority. Tax breaks are important in order to pay off working in Norway and to invest in Norway. I have noticed that the Workers' Party is proposing strong tax incentives in Norwegian workplaces. They will make it more expensive to work and more expensive to create more jobs. For the government parties, the most important thing is to create more, not to tax more. We continue the strong commitment to transport – on roads, rail and public transport. With the 2019 budget, the appropriations for transport will have increased by 75 pst. since we joined. Maintenance and construction of new road and track links Norway more closely. It gives a simpler everyday life for most people as well as for business. We need to seize the opportunities that lie in the Norwegian people. That's why the government has been working for a better school system. The results are clear. Recordmange completes further education now, and recordmange gets a place to learn. But also for those who are already at work, we need action. We have to make sure that no one goes out to date or ends the job because of lack of competence. An important measure is therefore the development of continuing training provision for particularly vulnerable sectors. Our welfare community is based on helping those who need help. That is why we strengthen hospitals so that they can treat more patients. We provide money for 1,500 more and better day care places. And we're doing the older reform Life our whole lives, so we can tackle what's failing in the care of the elderly. Security is also about the country's defence. The defence budget has had a real growth of 20 pst. since 2013 and in that budget the Government further strengthens its commitment. We're increasing the budget by 4 billion. kr. The objectives of the long-term defence plan are followed up by an increase of 2.8 billion. kr. In order to create security in everyday life, there is also a need for a police force to prevent better and combat criminal acts and environments. We're betting on more policemen and better equipment, cars and helicopters. We are on track to reach the target of two police officers per 1000 citizens on a national basis during 2020. Increased police personnel contribute to increased security throughout the country. This is the fifth state budget this government has presented, and which has been agreed upon in the Stortinget. Over the five years, we have managed two major crises – the fall in oil prices in 2014 and the migration wave in 2015 – and we have made small and large changes that mean a lot to the Norwegian everyday life. I hope that, in the future, we will also be able to address the major challenges that Norway faces, the Storting and the government jointly. With the 2019 state budget, we provide a good basis for greener, smarter and more innovative business, for more in jobs, for a sustainable welfare society, for a better everyday life for you, me and everyone living in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1163	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1169	As the Minister of Finance said, it is the fifth state budget with her as Minister of Finance we are now dealing with in Stortinget, and we are going into the sixth year with an active fiscal policy – a policy that cannot show any results other than a greater distance between poor and rich. The figures from the government's own departments and agencies show that the thousand richest have received 1.3 million. kr less in taxes on wealth in these years. 1.3 million. kr is the equivalent of more than three years’ wages for an ordinary kindergarten teacher. I therefore have a simple question for the Minister of Finance, and she does not need to use long investigations to answer: contribute 1.3 million. D in tax relief for the thousand richest to larger or smaller differences in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1175	That's the sum of all the instruments we use in tax policy, which are important. We also have to be able to have more thoughts in our head at the same time. We're reducing corporate tax because the distance between Norway and countries it's natural to compare ourselves with is too much. We are reducing the tax on wealth simply because it is beginning to appear more and more like a strange tax that has been removed by many countries, simply because it is discriminatory for operators operating in the same market. We've also been busy reducing taxes on labour income because that means something. Half of the relief granted by this government has gone to them with revenues below NOK 600000. So you have to be able to do several things at the same time in tax policy. We see the results: Norway is doing well, Norwegian economy is doing well, growth is rising, and unemployment is falling. That's the leftover impression of this government's policy over several years.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1184	Minister of Finance Siv Jensen of the Progress Party has become the finance minister in Norwegian history who collects the most money on fees from people. It's kind of become the big way to bring in money for the Progress Party. How are new promises to be funded? Yes, a new fee is introduced. It's now over 6 billion. kr more in annual fees than when Siv Jensen became Minister of Finance. It is an annual tradition to find some fee shop just before Christmas, such as plastic bag tax, seat tax or sugar charge on non-alcoholic beverages. We thought it was a highlight last year with a fee of 80 pst. – a starting point really. So this year you can double the charges for some taxis. This year it is the taxi fee, and it is justified by Siv Jensen's weaponsmen that it is about the environment. However, there are 461,498 vans in Norway that do not receive such a fee increase, while the 8 000 taxi cars do. Can we assume that the 461,000 vans will have the same purchase price next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1191	There is a significant difference between the fiscal policy implemented by this government in recent years and the alternative budgets provided by the Centre Party. This government has reduced the total tax burden by nearly 25 billion. kr, while the Centre Party has consistently increased the total taxes in its alternative budgets. It's a fact. The impact of Vedum is likely to be high and dark on behalf of some taxes, but that is the sum of the burden imposed on Norwegian businesses, which ultimately means something. Then I guess the majority in Norwegian business is more satisfied with a government that is more concerned with competitiveness and competitive taxes than with what is the simplest weapon for some politicians on the red-green side, namely to tighten up taxes when you can't cover up within the existing framework. I have noticed in this debate that several criticise the government for having spent a lot of money, but still not a single red-green party manages to prioritise within the framework – they have to tighten up the taxes by significant billions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1200	I spoke in my post about 0.1 p.m. billion, the 4,300 richest people in Norway who have received 1.4 billion. kr in tax cuts up to 2018. This is the group that the government is most committed to. When SV points this out in today's VG, the Minister of Finance answers that this is socialist envy. Well, we can ask some of those who pay the price for the 0.1 billion p.m.: the young people who get increased taxes with this budget proposal, those who notice that well-being is cut through the so-called efficiency cuts – 10 billion. In prisons, prisons and universities, the government has no idea of the consequences of – those who mark the cuts in free legal aid, in welfare centres for fishermen, in criminal care, in the student grant scheme. Those who notice these cuts, are they just envious?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1206	I noticed that SV's main issue here in the world is to increase the wealth tax. If you look at the government budget as presented by this government, it is a basic redistributive budget. So on the cost side, we're going to spend $1,350 billion. kr, of which the large amount of money is actually being redistributed and to strengthen the well-being of our country. I have been listening to the debate until now, and I must say that this debate is really telling you how well it is. So there's a little bit of a strange perspective coming up. It sounds like our entire school system has expired, and the health care system has collapsed. The truth is that every year we continue to strengthen one welfare system after another because we basically agree that we should have good, broad tax-funded welfare schemes. We can do that, while we don't stick the suction pipe far into people's pockets and sharpen the taxes within what I hear the opposition say is a rusty budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1211	This budget means a historic increase in child welfare. This is the first time in over 20 years that child-responsiveness is increasing, a Christian People's Party is very pleased with. At the same time, the Christian People's Party does not have ambitions to stop there. This means one thousand times more per child and means a lot to those who have poor advice. Now there has been a debate on the working line, and that the child's health should obviously be involved in threatening the working line. What does the Council of State think about that, and what ambitions does the Council of State have for child welfare? The Christian People's Party has pointed to a model that is taxing, which means that those who have a lot do not notice the increase in child care in the same way as those who have bad advice. The party itself does well to tax the child’s rights. What are the ambitions of the government to further increase child welfare?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1217	I believe the Christian People's Party and the government parties can agree on one important thing, namely that freedom of choice for families with children matters. It's important community. I hear that many of the opposition parties are concerned that the community is the state and the public sector. I disagree. I believe the community is all the small communities around the dinner tables across the whole country, and we must have basic confidence that families can make wise choices with their own money. It is true that the budgetary agreement has strengthened child welfare. I think I should not answer the question from the representative of Ropstad, and that we are wise to take the discussions in investigations and possible government negotiations in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1224	The Minister of Finance has stated that she is presenting an offensive climate budget. This offensive budget cuts less than a third of what is necessary to achieve the goals we have set ourselves and the commitments we have made. If we can't cut enough, the world will have more poor people, more deaths due to hotness, more uncertainty in food supply and more refugees, who will also enter Norway. A budget that does not reach the targets would not be considered offensive in Norwegian, so the question is: What are the criteria for calling a climate budget ‘offensive’, in addition to the fact that there are several electric cars? Is the fact that at all – more than zero – funds are allocated to the climate sufficient for the Minister of Finance to see something offensive?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1231	I noticed that the representative Stoknes in his main post used the word «climate magic». I am probably afraid to see that there is only one party in this Chamber who is really practicing climate magic, and that is the Greens' Environment Party. It is completely unlikely that any of this would be realistic and feasible within the sustainability of the Norwegian economy and for the individual family and household. On the other hand, it is important to apply climate action that works, and this government has done so systematically since we took over in 2013. We have strengthened the climate budgets every year, we have focused on actions and instruments that work, and emissions are now falling. I guess that's a good sign. They will continue to go down even if the government continues to have its hands on a realistic climate policy, rather than the climate magic that the Green Party is festering.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1238	In 2009, a politician said something wise, namely the following: ‘We are in favour of a dental reform in which, in the first place, we have to put in place a cap on propensities so that people with a particularly poor economy have better dental health than they do today.’ The wise thing was said by Siv Jensen. Today she is known as a politician with a little selective memory, so it was good to remind her of this quote. I would also like to remind her that Red, in its alternative budget, is in favour of just a dental reform, with a roof on the excesses of NOK 2 000 and 40 pst. reimbursement of costs over it. I would like to ask Siv Jensen, who was wise nine years ago: what does she have to say to the voters who have voted for her over the years in the hope of cheaper dentistry, but who have instead experienced that dental health has become only more expensive and expensive while she has run the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1250	In fact, this government has taken many steps over the last five years to improve dental care, especially for those who really need it. I believe that we have nothing to be ashamed of when it comes to developments in the field of dentistry. We have given priority to those who have the greatest needs, either because they have been disease-related, because they have a weak economy, or because they need it for different reasons. I believe that there is a trend that is moving in the right direction, and something that the government has systematically followed up in every budget since we joined.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1255	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1261	A government shall be measured on each budget submitted, on each budgetary settlement and on each budget, but also on the whole and on what has been going on over the year. That is why it is so important to see that the government and the majority of citizens of the United Kingdom have consistently prioritised things that are important for sustainable welfare in Norway, and to ensure Norwegian jobs and job creation — for example. a massive boost to research, from cutting-off to stable over one per cent, a huge commitment to transport, a high level of competitive taxes and contributions and a commitment to knowledge, not least in professional, technical and skilled labour. Some have pointed out that the government has been sitting for a while; it was re-elected at the time of the decision. Then it's important that we are equally concerned about what we're going to do in the future, because we don't want to govern the country, sit in government or make budgetary settlements because we've done a lot of good earlier, we want to continue. In the field of business, it is important that we remain offensive to simplify. We've simplified for 10 billion. kr for business. It helps each and every enterprise in Norway. We're going to simplify more, get rid of bureaucracy, modernise, for 15 billion. kr. We must have a tax policy that makes it possible not only to keep jobs in Norway, we must have a tax policy that does not penalise Norwegian owners and Norwegian ownership. For the Centre Party, Norwegian ownership and long-term Norwegian private ownership are very important, but taxes and charges must not be reduced. We must also invest in those areas where Norway has a special advantage. We have a pretty full toolbox, but it won't help if we don't use it. We must not just bet on the overall issues, such as taxes, taxes and transport, but also on concrete ones, for example. in Norway as a port and in the Norwegian industry because there are sectors that have a future in front of them. We also need to simplify the instrument jungle, so that it is easier for small businesses to identify, to obtain support and to facilitate the correction of market failures. Then we have to be even more offensive than before in terms of trade and obtaining market access for Norwegian goods, also in order to send a political signal from tiny Norway out into the big world that free, fair and open world trade is good and a win-win situation for all. The leader of Red said that we lack neither resources nor money. That's a good observation, because Norway is a very rich country. At the same time, we can also end up in a situation where we lack resources and money. The truth about Norway is that our values are not primarily in the North Sea, our values are created by work, by going to work, and that in this way we contribute to the common fund. When, for example, taxing more, it is not just a matter of personal consumption, but it is also a question of the taxation of jobs. I have noticed that there seems to be a creative group work on the left-hand side where you are very concerned about finding new nicknames for everyone who contributes to value creation in Norway, for example. welfare innovators have become welfare professionals. If you've built a business through a long life -- maybe inherited it from your father, who got it from his father, who got it from his father, or, increasingly, from his mother, who got it from his mother -- you suddenly become part of a dynasty. If you're a part of creating values in Norway over time, you're a baron. I think that before the left-hand side creates a creative group work to find new nicknames for everyone who contributes, works or creates values in the private sector, they might think of just three-quarters of all value creation in Norway coming in and going on in the private sector. So it's not like we're not going to lack resources or money completely independent of the policy that's being pursued. If we conduct an unpredictable or poor policy, if we tax more, it goes beyond both Norwegian long-term private ownership and Norwegian workers. Finally, it's a little funny that you keep saying that this government hasn't made any reforms. I seem to remember that a year ago it was rather the opposite that was the problem. Then there was municipal reform, New Veier, railway reform, police reform, new teacher training. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1282	Time's up. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1289	After five years with the Right in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, it is really hard to see what the Right has had on its own initiative there. All that has been carried out and has come out of the Department of the Stortinget is actually imposed by the Stortinget – imposed on a Right-State Council – except for one thing, and it is the will to implement a regulatory change that would directly result in Norwegian seafarers being put ashore, while foreign workers could board. So the exposure is not about the issues, it's about trying to put seafarers ashore. The Minister of Economic Affairs has defended the change of regulations and the need to put these seafarers ashore in a rather sharp order and with a strong commitment. Now, the budget agreement shows that one puts a line above the regulatory amendment. One shall not implement it. My question to the Minister of Industry is: does the Minister of Industry now support the budget agreement and reconcile, or is it still such that he argues to put seafarers ashore? And anyway, what's the change in the last month?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1296	The answer to the question is yes. It would be quite funny if not a government council that depends on the majority of the Storting and trust there, would support what had emerged in a budgetary settlement. I have to admit that the last question I didn't quite understand, what's the change in the last month. The change in the last month is that there's been a majority on the Stortingen to let Color Line continue as today. This was never about having the simple choice: putting Norwegian seafarers on the ground — on land — or not. This was about the need for predictable framework conditions for Norwegian maritime industry. That's what you're going to get. This presupposes a consistent policy over several years. Then it is worth remembering that some of the things that were difficult for the maritime industry were both curvature and lack of responsiveness from the then red-green government, where seafarers, along with the shipping companies, came and told what they needed. They did not get that until the government change in 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1303	For five years, the government has had creative group work to find ways to move Norwegian jobs out of Norway. It's about selling into state-owned companies, it's about finding anti-business taxes, and it's also, until recently, about replacing 700 Norwegian seafarers with cheap foreign labour. Since the government went on a loss in this matter and ordered Color Line to remain in the NOR register, there is a signal from the company that they need security for the framework conditions. Then my question is: What is the Council of State going to do for a Norwegian company, a Norwegian fleeting team under the Norwegian flag, to a greater extent, than is the case today?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1308	When Color Line received the majority's support through a party-based sample to make the changes that we proposed to follow up, the concern of Color Line – these are the better ones to talk about than I – was that there would be too much change in the framework conditions. Of course, everyone is aware that when you have support schemes related to where ships are being flagged, it's not politically controlled whether you're flying out or in, directly. In fact, there are good news here, because there are several ships flying into Norway. There are several ships flying home. So one of the premises for the question was that the government had done its utmost to get jobs out of the country. In that case, we've done a terrible job, because it's invested. In Norwegian industry, investment is rising. Unemployment is falling. Yes, we sold out SAS, which no longer had any meaningful reason to be in state ownership. What's going to chase out jobs is, of course, the EEA policy and tax policy of the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1315	I noticed that the council said it had been a red-green effort to talk down those who created values in the country. The question can indeed be turned to the opposite: When should this government start to care about actual value creation and less about the richest and the most wealthy? Over the five years that the government has set up, they have not been able to find any new green jobs. It has our tax cuts to the richest without measurable nutritional effects. It has been more of a redistribution policy, not an industrial policy. We've seen increased emissions, and property is still more advantageous to invest in than new industries and new industries. What is the government's sunshine history? What is it that he can point out that we're now in a green shift?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1322	Now it's less advantageous to invest in property than before, among other things. because of changes in the valuation of property taxes, and that is very wise. But the question is, where are these jobs coming from? Because this is all connected. Travel, e.g. to the heart of Norwegian maritime industries along the coast, in particular on Sunnmøre. Who is it that you meet? You don't meet people who are in the paper as acquaintances in Norway. You meet people who have built businesses through generations. And what are they saying? Well, they say that the strange wealth tax doesn't hit an investment fund from London or some rich man who has his money on the Cayman Islands, no, it hits Norwegian private, local owners. It's hitting them. So question number. 2: Where will these green jobs come from? Where are they coming now? Where are they developing an electric chess? Where are they developing electrical solutions for the farming industry? Yes, in the exact same cluster. So SV lives in the error that you can have a terriblely bad business policy, but a good green business policy, and it's not related.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1329	In the budgetary agreement with the Government Parties, the following request decisions concerning the Powers Decision on the sale of State properties on Rausand were adopted: ‘The Government is asking the Government that the pollution on the ground of the State must be managed in connection with the sale of the State’s property on Rausand in the Nesset municipality of More and Romesdal and that provision be made for the simultaneous safeguarding of mine hunts and landfills in the areas.’ This concerns, among other things: concerning large quantities of salt slag from the aluminium industry which has been illegally stored since 2004, and my question to the Council of State is whether he can make more detail on how this request decision will be followed up, when the State is now in a process of selling its properties where the old mines on Rausand are located.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1339	Thank you for the question. I have seen the situation in Rausand on several occasions, not least thanks to questions and commitment from the representative Reiten. Let me just be clear and clear about it: what the Storting has said is also the starting point when we're going to follow this up. We want to have a follow-up and a possible sale that is both responsible, that cleans up what has been past sins, and that also naturally follows the commitment that the majority of the population has had, not least the representative Reiten.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1351	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1356	In Norway, we are at our best when we solve the problems together – when we jointly create values and jobs across the country, and when we collectively distribute fairly and make sure that the differences are small. Now, after five years of government with this government, we create too little and share too badly. There are still too many Nordics outside the labour market, and the growth in productivity is low. We have not become less dependent on the oil and gas sector, as Erna Solberg announced before the 2013 elections. So the differences are increasing, and while we're creating too little, we're dividing too poorly. The working party presents an alternative budget that points out a different direction — with stronger communities and smaller differences. It's a budget to create more and share better. To create more, we need to strengthen, not weaken, the Norwegian working life model. An organised working life, with full, permanent jobs and strong responsible parties, is essential for conversion and value creation. Where the right-hand government cuts the trade union deduction, we increase it by $1,000 in our budget. We propose a significant package of measures against labour crime – with increased appropriations for the Labour Inspectorate, the Petroleum Control and the Ecocrime. Instead of cheering on the unorganized world of work, as the right parties did on the government platform, we want to invest in the organized world of work. It provides job security for the individual, and it provides a more adaptable and productive working life. It's not the big oil and gas revenues, it's the result of everybody's work that guarantees the welfare community. The government is talking about the workline as a prerequisite for ensuring well-being, but in practice it is drawing policy in the wrong direction. Also in this budget, money is allocated in a way that makes working less profitable – contrary to what the work line requires. It is poor for integration, combating poverty and income into the community. In our budget, we invest over 3.6 billion. more on education and training activities. We start early, with stronger community solutions for children and young people: More kindergartens are good for integration, for future learning and for parents who want to work. 500 more primary school teachers make extra efforts early, so that all children learn to read, write and calculate. Increased grants to apprenticeships and vocational equipment in schools are good for high-practice pupils and for the labour force, who are screaming for skilled skilled workers. We put considerable emphasis on lifelong learning – adult competence – through a knowledge agreement of the labour market, where we use tripartite cooperation to provide a great boost to labour market skills. We'll give you 100 million. kr to a national competence fund which gives workers the right to receive continuing training. Last year, we launched sectoral programmes for the development of skills in the care of the elderly and in construction. Now we are expanding it together for the transport sector and for trade in goods, where, as a community, we should take responsibility for helping workers through demanding transformations. To create more, we need an active, not passive, industrial policy. Many countries are now taking a more active role in industrial development in their country. We will do the same — not least to create a business that leads to the development of green value creation and new, climate-friendly jobs in Norway. That is why we are proposing a marine value creation programme, built on Norwegian preference, Norwegian natural resources and world-leading competence. That is why we are proposing increased appropriations for the Eco-Technology Scheme and for climate-friendly shipping. Norway can lead internationally through a more active industrial policy. Therefore, we propose to double the allocation to the Bioeconomy Facility in Innovation Norway – new sustainable jobs based on renewable resources from soil, forest and sea. For the Workers' Party, the EEA Agreement is a prerequisite for creating more and better. Two thirds of our mainland exports go to our Nordic and European partners. Hardly any country is more dependent on the European market than Norway. Large parts of our business live by exports: the supplier industry, the power-intensive industry, the farming industry. And from these industries, much of the income we use comes to finance well-being. Therefore, the EEA Agreement is and has been good for the Norwegian economy and society. But the deal isn't perfect. No deal is there. The right-wing authority uses the room for action in the appointment in a small and incorrect way, including: by not cleaning up where there is bad order in the workplace. But let's not forget the clear outline: the EEA Agreement is a pillar of our foreign policy, together with NATO membership. A policy of increased value creation and more jobs must therefore be based on a strong defence of this agreement. And in the Workers' Party, the EEA Agreement has a strong defender. If we create more, we have more to share. If we replace right-wing policy with big tax cuts, we have a better basis for sharing more fairly than we do today. In our alternative budget, we allocate 3.5 billion. kr more to the municipalities next year. There is an investment in common well-being – for increased security in everyday life to people most: more employees in kindergarten, more teachers in primary school, more time for the elderly in the care of the elderly. Instead of privatisation reforms, we spend more money on what really counts in people's everyday lives, like solving the fixed crisis. Over half of the country's municipalities now report problems in recruiting enough permanent staff. And many of the tenets, who are doing a heroic job today, are overworked and in constant need of time. We therefore grant funds to 400 new general practitioners in specialisation. We'll keep our hospital vows and grant more than $1.6 billion. kr more than the government of our common hospitals, more for medicine, for better ICT solutions. It improves the ability of hospitals to provide all world-class healthcare and counteracts privatisation in this area. It prevents increasing differences and a two-way sharing of healthcare, where expensive cancer drugs are something you have to pay for by your own pocket. We do not want that. Our budget raises the ambitions for our greatest task in the future – a task we can only solve jointly: the climate crisis. Hot waves, droughts, floods, cyclones and forest fires already show how vulnerable we are to climate change. For us in the Workers' Party, this is true: climate is not an isolated matter, it is the framework of all matters. Climate is not the most important issue for future generations; it is the most important issue for all generations — young and old. Climate is not a matter of cutting emissions outside or at home, climate is a matter of cutting large emissions both outside and at home. None of the parties in this room can be sure: we'll do enough. We're in target. In every one of our state budgets in the future, we will present our own greenhouse gas emissions budget, showing whether we are on track to achieve our climate goals. And we're starting this year. In the 2019 budget, we are taking new steps towards a climate-friendly society. So in sum, we're going to spend over three billion dollars. kr more on climate action than the right-hand government is adding to its budget. The most important of the new proposals is a new CO2 fund for business transport. While business accounts for two thirds of emissions in the transport sector, there are few incentives in place for a green shift. We want to do something about that now. We want the state and industry to establish a partnership to reduce the emissions of industrial transport. So we're going to add 700 million. kr to a new CO2 fund. The new fund should operate on the same model as the NOx fund, which has been very successful. In return, businesses must make commitments on significant emissions reductions in a legally binding agreement. When we presented our alternative budget, I encouraged the bourgeois parties to participate in this proposal. We do not agree on the level of taxation or privatisation, but we could agree on this proposal. I record that the right parties have used more force on other themes, such as abortion and tax-free, than to bring down emissions from this sector. That's too bad. But it's also symptomatic. We share the concern that Norway will be lagging behind adopted climate targets. We meet this by promoting an alternative policy that could take us to the goal. That's our method. That is why the Workers' Party does not choose to support the motion of censure promoted by the Greens' Greens' Party today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1392	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1398	First, I would like to say that I am very pleased with the warm defence of the EEA Agreement and the NATO membership that Gahr Støre had. I think it's important at a time when there's a little storm in Europe, that big parties can stand together on the importance of the EEA Agreement. But then Gahr Støre says that one will create more and share better, and he listed in his post many billions of new expenses that he wanted to carry out. The problem is that the budget for the Workers' Party has been the reddest since 2013. This is bad news for Norwegian value creation and new jobs. One wants to increase the personal tax and the step tax by almost 1 billion. kr, increase the property tax by SEK 4,7 billion. NOK, cut the grant to private kindergartens by 85 million. kr, eliminate free treatment choices, remove schemes with individual pension savings, or cut by nearly 1 billion. kr, and also make a number of cuts that do not contribute to the creation of value added. What is it that the Workers' Party has completely left the line of responsible budgeting and systematically undermines the possibility of creating new jobs in Norway? [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1407	Thank you for the compliment that it is a red budget. It's in the style of our party color, so I'm glad the representative has come along. It is a good and fair budget, which follows the Labour Party's line of spending the great money on the tasks that are most important in life, in working life and in business. People with up to 750,000 kroner get relief with our arrangement. It's those of us with the most income and wealth that contribute something more. From that point of view, we can also do something the Workers' Party has always stood for – investing. We can invest more in climate-friendly technology, we can invest more in our hospitals, and we can invest more in our kids in what they get in kindergarten, in school, in education. We believe that these grips are significantly better in the long term to create new jobs, an active business and adaptable businesses. So the relationship between creating and sharing is about the way we share, also having a big impact on the way we create.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1414	We can well now see that the Workers' Party, with its alternative budget for the next year, is fulfilling the 2017 election promise on tax increases of between 15 and 20 billion. kr. Predictability can be agreed on whether is important, especially for business. When Stortinget dealt with the tax reform in 2016, there was an agreement on two significant changes. One was a reduction in company tax because the level of Norwegian corporation tax had become very high. Then there was a reduction in the wealth tax on working capital. In addition, it was agreed to look at a further reduction in corporate taxes whose changes occurred in other countries, and especially in our neighbouring countries, i.e. in the Nordic countries. Now it has happened, but the Workers' Party will not participate in any further reduction, nor will it be involved in facilitating Norwegian enterprises and Norwegian business owners through an increase in the wealth tax on working capital. [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]] What is it that makes the Workers' Party change its view of the tax ego, and is no longer concerned with creating before you can share? [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1421	The last observation came when it was clubbed. That's good it was the club, because it's completely wrong. The working party is to create, and our budget contributes to it. I want to warn you that Norway is now becoming part of a race at the bottom of the corporate tax. We have had a large, well-worked and investigated tax reform, as we should have in Norway, and we have reduced corporate tax. It began in our government. It came to an agreement of 23 p.m. I believe that if we then only put it down one to two years later, it sends the wrong signal, and I have not seen it proven in the government's papers that one percent will trigger new investments – on the contrary. So I mean the same thing for what you do with the property tax. Through our resources, we can use money to support business conversion, in technology, in investment better than the flat cuts that go to people with the most in this country. It is another priority, another strategy, and it provides results for both growth and conversion in Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1428	The representative Jonas Gahr Støre has recently been very concerned with the working line in the media. Of course, we are very happy about that. SV supports a hundred percent that securing people's work is crucial for value creation and also for reducing poverty. But he went with him that there were some threats to the so-called line of work, among other things. cash support and child benefit. We in SV were quite surprised that child welfare is also produced as a threat to the working line, etc. That increasing child welfare would make people choose to be at home and take care of their own children. It was made in the media that the representative Gahr Støre thought. Then my question to him is: is there any evidence from the Workers' Party that increasing child welfare helps people to choose to be at home instead of working?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1433	No, the 80 kroner month for one child I don't think has a decisive influence on that exact calculation. But what happened in the media this week was that the total amount of cash transfers has something to say. If a family of two working people were to serve, for example, over NOK 530000, will part of the well-being schemes that this government has implemented be lost, and thus comes the question: does it pay to work? - No, I'm not. So if the total sum of what you get in cash transfers, which I've experienced, at least among big parties in Norway, has been quite agreed on, comes up to a certain level, the incentive goes down to work. It's clear that the child's back fits into that picture. We're not against child welfare, we're for it. It is a strategy to increase it by rebalancing it. We can be open to discussing it, but in terms of the sum, we have to look at the relationship between it and other cash benefits and ask the question: can we spend that money better to achieve goals both for families and for society at large?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1440	All first I'll give a little red rose to Gahr Støre because he's started talking about climate and energy much more just in the last year. Last year's financial debate was not the subject of the representative's speeches. That's very good. In the last year, government parties and the Workers' Party have also agreed on the EU Energy Package 3, which was adopted by the EU almost ten years ago. It was time we adopted it in Norway, and the Workers' Party admits that we need foreign tables to exchange clean and renewable energy. The representative was also largely within the meaning of the EEA Agreement for Norway, and the Labour Party is a steady yes-to-EU party, so I am a little surprised that the Labour Party was not fully involved with the government parties in the climate strategy and the importance of cooperating with the EU. But in the Labour Party's budget, there is a separate emission budget, and what information is the Workers' Party going to have out of it? [[President clubs]] For these figures, the government's own proposal is based on sectoral emissions. [[The President Clubs Again]] Is there anything new you want?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1447	Firstly, we have submitted a climate budget – this government has not done so – and shown year after year how we must achieve the 2030 target. I am sure that the work, which I would like to acknowledge to my employees who have worked on it, has a very demanding basis, because the government has not done the job they should. But we have taken inspiration from the City Council in Oslo, which has managed to present it to the capital. We should do the same for the country. And I think we've got our way to 2030. I think we need to get a better method and way of working for it in 2019, 2021 etc. But at least that gives an indication that it is possible to get there if we grant the money. I appreciate the fact that the representative hears the Labour Party's voice in terms of climate and energy. That's important because the Left's voice disappears in that discussion when they're in government. But I think that we need to have some long-term goals and be able to document the efforts we are going to make to achieve that goal, and I hope that the government will take the challenge that in the next state budget they will also present a much clearer climate budget to show the way to the commitments we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1455	The cord shift is over. The President will make Storting aware that in the case of lines, there is 1 minute that applies, i.e. not 1 minute and 20 seconds or 1 minute and 30 seconds. It's 1 minute in a row.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1462	This is a real blue day, at least in the Drammen – we lost the cup final yesterday. I am also glad that the four non-socialist parties have once again agreed on an offensive state budget. Thanks in particular to the Christian People's Party, which this year was the only party outside government that negotiated with the government. Then we hope that the next year will be even easier, at least in the Biggest. A large and generous public sector requires high value creation in the private sector. Consequently, the most important thing for Norway in the future will be to create more jobs. This is why the Right of all value creators in Norway, and we give priority to taking action to create more jobs. We're lowering taxes so companies can invest in more jobs. We're putting conditions in place to make it pay to work and create new jobs. The transport budget has increased by 75 pst. since 2013. And we've seen a change of pace in research, where for the first time we're close to achieving the goal of 3pst. research and development shall be undertaken by GDP. 2019 appears to be the third year in a row with the largest job growth in the private sector. That's good. The arrows point up in the Norwegian economy. Freedom goes down, and growth goes up. We have not seen lower leave in Norway in ten years, and the decline is particularly high in typical districts. This shows that the government's policy is working. We have to use the good times well. The last time we had an upturn, the jobs went to Immigrants. This time we want to use the good times to include more in the labour market. This is why the government has launched a large-scale inclusion process and developed a new integration strategy. We're going to give people a chance: newcomers, people with holes in the CV, people who, for different reasons, can't work full time. These people must enter the labour market. They must hear that we appreciate their efforts. They have to feel like they're contributing. Let there be no doubt: the right and the government cheer on everyone who goes to work. We value any contribution, because we know that work is what creates well-being. You have to be careful about predicting the future. Nevertheless, we know that an ageing population, climate change, immigration and declining oil revenues will be at the forefront of challenges. The welfare State shall not be a daily fly. That is exactly why we must now prepare the welfare state for the challenges of the future. Our task is to ensure a sustainable welfare society. Maintaining the high level of well-being is done by strengthening the base of the welfare state. A well-educated high-employee population is the base of the welfare state. The welfare state is made sustainable by entrepreneurs, by entrepreneurs, by those who create jobs. That is why I am pleased that we have a working alliance on the non-socialist side. The budget we are adopting today is a working budget. Where the left-hand side calls value creators profiters and barons and tries to make job creation more difficult, the non-social side works to create more jobs in Norway. It contributes to the creation of a more sustainable welfare society. It is our common project, and this budget helps to strengthen the sustainability of the Norwegian welfare society for the coming generations. On the socialist side, we find another alliance. This alliance can be named a lot of times. The tax alliance is an opportunity. At least it's not an alliance for private value creation. When we read the alternative budgets of the Socialist Party, we see what they give priority to. In any case, job losses are at the bottom of that list. These are parties that have forgotten Jens Stoltenberg's old doctrine that one must create before one can share. There is a common consensus among the socialist parties that businesses are going to tax more, not create more. There is a common agreement that New Roads should be shut down, despite New Roads building roads like never before and saving taxpayers for billions. There is agreement to say no to the railway reform, although it will provide a better rail offer for a lower amount of money. The most important thing they agree on is to make it more expensive to create jobs and to work in Norway — by setting up taxes. The result of the policies of the socialist parties is that welfare will decline in the long term. For the sixth consecutive year, we have agreed on a good budget for Norway. It is a responsible budget and a sustainable budget. It promises good for future non-socialist cooperation. We're betting on transportation. We're going to school. We're betting on job creation. Yes, we're aiming at creating jobs – because jobs are what provide a sustainable welfare society.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1490	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1495	Right still claims that the local economy is quite so liberal now. In the budget of the year, the government is releasing its income base from the municipalities by lowering the ceiling on the tax on property. It should be a crossroads of thought for the representative that even right-wing municipalities must increasingly resort to property taxes to get the ends to meet. In the last two years, right-wing municipalities have found it necessary to raise 155 million. SEK in property tax – 155 million. NOK 2 in 2 years. I don't think that right-wing politicians, for example. Elverum has done this to plague its citizens, but to get enough money for the necessary services. What does the representative of Greece think is the reason?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1500	Of course, we have the reduction in the possibility of levying property taxes on which the budget is charged. I think that's a proper development. The imposition of property taxes cannot be considered as a sleep cushion for lack of rationalisation, for improving the efficiency of municipalities, etc. Even I've been on the city council of the Drammen. There it was a little bit like that when the Workers' Party ran, that you had property taxes in intermediate elections, and then they removed it in election years. That was a good strategy. But after the Right took over, we have removed the property tax for good and have managed to manage the city in a good way without that extra tax on people's housing. I believe that a reduction in property taxes is good, I think it is important for municipalities also to be creative in finding other ways to collect those revenues, or to reduce the cost. So I support the decline in property taxes, I think it's a proper development.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1505	Yes, it became a good cup finale yesterday, and the cup came right where it should be. But the finance minister did not respond to anything about the taxi tax, and the representative of Greece was in his contribution occupied by value creators. I received an enquiry from a taxi owner in Meråker. Meråker is a municipality with 2,500 inhabitants. 90 pst. of his driving is public driving and tendering, and he will receive extra costs of 650 000 kroner from 1 January 2019. Now some of the speakers here have said that this is kind of a green fee. It's to destroy the credibility of green charges to call it that. Can the representative of Greece simply admit that this is once again about a creative proposal to try to bring about a difficult budgetary balance for the government, another proposal for a levy that will be able to do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1513	No, the representative of Greece cannot, because this increase in the tax is aimed at getting a more green and sustainable taxi industry. That is why I understand very well that the Senter Party has light and light in the year's budget to find the fee they can pay especially to the finance minister with the next year. But I don't think this fee will bear. This is a change in the fee that helps you get a greener car park in the taxi industry as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1518	I have included the budget, because I wonder very much whether Greece and the government have really read what is in its own budget. I hear the article from Greece, where he talks about jobs and job creation, he cheers on all entrepreneurs, etc., and in the budget it says jammen that there is one instrument that averages 5.6 percentage points higher growth in value creation compared to similar enterprises and 6.1 percentage points higher growth in the number of employees, and that is the regional funds – those that the government has cut in and more than halved for five consecutive years now. These provide jobs and good service in the districts. SV suggests increasing these, of course because there are many jobs. We believe that we should pay more attention to those who are going to create these jobs, but if you make a lot of money, you should also be involved and contribute more to the community. What is the reason why the Right believes that this money should simply be cut, and that it is not important?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1525	Before I arrived at Stortinget, I worked with regional development in the county municipality. I still have leave from there. It's getting a little bit over 20 years ago, but it might be interesting to go back. It might be a little bit smaller in the register now than it was then. What was a bit of the challenge was that when I went around in Buskerud and met the various applicants who wanted to get subsidies for good action, I drove on bumps and bad county roads, and I drove on poorly maintained highways. We made a very strategic decision by saying that the best regional development, the best district policy, is to have good infrastructure. We have prioritised the county roads, we have prioritised the transport budget – it's increased by 75 pst. It's been a very clear bet. When you stood in a torch outside for approx. 10 years ago, it was to get new and better way, it was not to get more in regional development funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1532	I record that Greece is briefing itself on its own experience 20 years ago. I think that is quite a bit forward-looking. When the government in its own budget writes that this works better than other tools to create jobs and to make higher profits in these businesses than others, it must be because they are in the districts that the Right is against this. I can't understand anything else. It is clear that roads are important in the districts as well, so SV agrees, that is why we have prioritised good roads in the districts rather than large, both climate and environmental, and unprofitable road investments in key areas. Also there, SV has a much better priority than what the Right has to create jobs and facilitate those who actually create jobs and good profits.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1541	The problem with SV is that they like to have a lot on one pot, where you can distribute the money, but they want to tighten the tax screw really for the very same people, who are entrepreneurs, who start businesses, who may eventually have to pay property taxes, who have to pay corporate tax – there's SV in the wrong direction. If SV had concentrated on what was the foundation of value creation, namely that you have to have good conditions to run business here in the country, I might have listened to the contributions from Karin Andersen regarding regional development funds. But the important thing is the statistics that we now see, where the unemployment rate in District Norway is lower than that of over ten years, where travel industry, fish, business and business go down. It is not the result of regional development funds, it is the result of taxation in this country and the good industrial policy of the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1549	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1554	Like some others here today, I would like to start by saying thank you – thank you to good colleagues in the government parties, and not least thank you to the Christian People's Party, which today is involved in an agreement on next year's government budget. Today we agree on a budget that will be good for Norway. With the agreement we adopt today, we ensure good framework conditions for business, so that we can continue to create and strengthen well-being. We limit the local government's ability to print property taxes, and we'll get a national senior agent in place. It is the sixth year in a row that the Progress Party has its hand on the steering wheel of economic policy, and our political footprint is great. We've reduced taxes by about 25 billion. kr. We've increased the traffic budget by 75 pst. since we took over. We are strengthening our commitment to security, police and defence. We're increasing patient care, and we're lifting the care of the elderly. Norwegian economy is doing well – more people come to work, employment is rising, unemployment is falling, and investment is increasing. We create more, and we treasure less. Together, the four parties on the non-socialist side have found solutions that are good for the country. Over these six years, the Progress Party has shown itself to be a steady steering party. But for us, governance has never been a goal in itself. We like to control, but first of all, we control because we want to improve, change and renew. For the Progress Party, the political implications are always most important, in everything we do. We are sure that the country is the best served with us in government, and because we are impatient to deliver even more in the years, and the budgets that come. Today, we adopt clear limits on the ability of municipalities to tax people's homes. The fight against the municipal property tax has been and is an important issue for the Progress Party. People's housing should be a home and not a tax item. The property tax is fundamentally unsocial and affects completely arbitrary, regardless of income, financial resources and ability to pay. That the Workers' Party is such a strong champion of such a treasure, is a mystery. The Progress Party will prohibit the entire property tax. What is now being adopted is the first step on the road. I promise that the Progress Party will continue the fight against property taxes in municipalities across the country throughout the municipal election campaign in 2019. No matter what problem the opposition has to solve, it seems that the answer is always increased taxes, increased taxes, more bans or injunctions. In the Progress Party, we believe that we can solve the societal challenges without reducing the freedom of people or taking more of their money. That is the foundation of our political project. Valuation is the key to well-being. We need to facilitate people to bet and take risks, and choose to invest in growth and value creation. That is why one of the most joyous news in the last few weeks is the Norwegian Industry's announcement that many companies are now choosing to fly home again. Companies justify their efforts at home with highly skilled and efficient labour, good quality of production and competitive conditions. The progress party is proud of the Norwegian skilled worker, and development shows why we need more people who go to work in the basement. The investment in the professional sector is very clear in this budget, with almost 100 million. for training and training of skilled workers. The Central Statistical Office estimates that we can need as many as 70,000 more skilled workers in 2035, and now the search for professional skills points up, while increasing the number of apprenticeships. Of course, for the Progress Party, it is that a professional letter should be as respected as a master's degree, and that more and more young people see the opportunities of professional science, promising well for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1579	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1584	Last week there was a new figure on how much fresh fish is exported over the most used customs station in North Norway. The figure was 100,000 tonnes. There's fresh fish for $6 billion. kr. For Limi's information, Nord-Norway's most used customs station is on Bjørnfjell – it is the station that sucks to Lofoten, Vesterålen and Sør-Troms. The government has stressed that there are some industries we're going to live on in the future, and aquaculture is one of them. But what does the government do when volume increases? Yes, they close the Bjørn Mountain border station at night, so that fish slaughtered at the Stokmarknes or Senja after midnight. 18.00, do not reach the mountain crossing in time. The consequence is that it falls in value by 1 to 1,50 kroner during the night. Nordlaks has estimated its loss to between 15 and 30 million. kr. We've prioritised keeping it open at night. Will Limi consider contributing to increased value creation by facilitating more efficient exports?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1591	I thank you for a very detailed and local question, but at the same time important. Without considering exactly that border station on Bjørnberg, I would like to say that it is quite clear that in general, the Progress Party is very concerned about facilitating both agriculture and industrial development, and of course export. This is one of the reasons why we spend so much on building good infrastructure, which is important for getting all the goods produced – and especially fresh goods – from the manufacturer to the market and out to the customer. This applies not only to road but also to trackside. So what we have contributed in recent years – and it can be documented – has been positive for most industries in Norway, and it is also seen in economic development, which is positive. Then I cannot say that I should support parts of the Workers' Party's alternative budget, because I believe we have a very good government budget, which is now reconciled between the four non-socialist parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1596	Several rapporteurs throughout the country will not now sign cooperation contracts with the police after the police reform because they believe that the service provided is too poor. Reference is made to the lack of operational presence of the police in the municipalities and to the fact that services have deteriorated significantly since the police reform. They even say that in Vinje in Telemark, who has a strengthened police office, but still experience worse services. The police themselves indicate that the resource situation is the cause, and the Joint Police Association recently announced that the 2019 government budget will lead to downsizing in 12 out of 12 police districts if adopted. One of the rapporteurs pointed out that the risk of being taken for per mill drive is now zero in the municipality, and we know that the police are laying down 80 pst. by the rape cases, very many of them with a known perpetrator. Can the Progress Party live on the fact that the police do not have enough resources to work either preventively or to investigate both everyday crime and serious crime in many of its municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1603	It does not live with the Progress Party, nor does the government. This is precisely why there has been such a significant strengthening of the justice sector and the police in recent years. There is reason to recall that the police reform is not finished. The structure has been implemented, but the quality part of the police reform itself will be completed in 2020. There's probably room for improvement, but what we've contributed in the last two years is to allocate money directly to the police districts, not via POD, but directly to the districts, precisely because you can spend the money to increase staffing, and also improve the purely operational function in every police district. The figures actually speak for themselves when you see the increase in police coverage – the number of newly educated people who get a job in the police, etc. – so we can prove that this is a proper development. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1608	That's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1613	When you look at how the government has rigged the tax system for the rich, there are now a number of interesting numbers. Since 2014, they have 0.1 pst. The richest in the country – i.e. 4,300 people, the super-rich in Norway – received 1.4 billion. kr in tax bill. I say that one more time, because there are quite fierce numbers: 4 300 people have got about by themselves. 1.4 B.C.E. kr in tax bill. In the past it was about the older billion in Norwegian policy, now the Progress Party has introduced the elitem billion instead. It is violent for a party that used to go to elections with the slogan 'for the most people'. Now the Progress Party has become a party for the economic elite. Is the representative Limi satisfied with this transformation of his party – from the people-most party to the elite party?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1618	Now I don't think we should leave to the representative Light Hill to define the transformation of the Progress Party. We have a tax policy that benefits most people. It's like this, the Light Box, that I don't get any less poor because you're getting less rich. Things are related. The crucial thing is how this money released is invested in creating jobs, establishing businesses, innovation, business start-ups – which in turn means getting more people into work, and increasing the overall tax base, which in turn leads to the distribution of well-being goods. So things have a context. It's all wrong to overfocus on a few relatively few kingdoms. One should rather be concerned with all the others out there who are willing to invest money and run businesses and take risks, and there I think the SV fail time and time again.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1625	In a line change earlier today, the representative from the Workers' Party accused Bjørnstad of having an unforeseeable charging policy, because their alternative budget meant a charge increase of NOK 40000 for individual car groups. It is clear that the alarm went into the Progress Party’s big group when one so-called Workers’ Party’s alternative budget, and that there were some who took up the struggle with them to have the most unpredictable charging policy. In the budget agreement, there is a tax increase for taxis, which are not only more than NOK 40000, and which are not more than twice as much or three times as much, but six times as much. This applies to those who run old, sick, schoolchildren and disabled people every day. What is the logic that they're going to get such a call overnight?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1631	It's a little bit amazing, the statement that the center party here makes. It is not the case that the taxi industry receives a surcharge increase overnight. What happens is that the advantage they have had in reducing the weight component of the one-off fee is gone. However, it does not turn out until you may order and buy a new car. So this is a change in the one-off charge. We're trying to motivate the taxi industry, as we've done to the other drivers, to choose more efficient cars, maybe cars that have less weight, so we also get a taxi industry and a taxi park that emits less, just like what we've achieved with the rest of the car park in Norway. But this only works when you buy a new taxi car.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1636	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1641	The centre party has in many respects pointed out the very centralizing policy that this government is pursuing. We have now experienced five years when regional policy instruments in the budgets have been systematically reduced and removed. A lot of centralisation has been structural changes that – if one wants services to be found close to people, and if one wants broad popular governance in society – have led us in the wrong direction. A great deal of centralisation is also budgetary decisions in the United Kingdom, in the conversion of municipal income systems, in the deprioritisation of rural transport and in the systematic reduction and removal of important regional policy instruments. This year's budgetary settlement does not change the image of the most centralizing government we've ever had. But new is what I want to call the silent centralization – what the government chooses to outsource to agencies and directorates, for which they do not take any responsibility, and on which they do not want any open political debate – just the centralization they are trying to keep away from the Storting. We got an example of that in the line chord exchange right now. So there have been sharp reactions from very many communities to what is happening in the police, and many municipalities refuse to sign cooperation agreements with the police now, but it is a debate we should rather not hold. It is a debate the majority of the population would prefer to keep away from the Storting. It is also the centralisation of emergency preparedness that many states are experiencing today. The government has chosen to allow health businesses to determine the number of ambulance stations and has not set a framework for preparedness in the form of a commitment response time. We see it in North Norway, we see it in Trendelag, we see it in Inland. Health enterprises create scenarios in which they change the entire structure of the ambulance service. District stations are being laid down, and the perimeter of the remaining ambulances is growing. Another theme for silent centralisation is higher education and universities. After the structural reform, all universities and universities will now be pushed through the same mill, but funding is crooked and to the detriment of the colleges that joined. That problem leaves the government to the institutions at sea, and the result now is that several new universities are holding and discussing the sheer closure of study places. Several aspects of this still centralisation can be mentioned: the closure of passport offices that the police are now carrying out, the closure of traffic stations in the Car Authority, the closure of tax offices and the closure of state jobs, for example. through Helfo. All have one thing in common: it means either that important government jobs disappear in many districts, or that means that citizens get longer travel routes to get public services done. The centre party will continue to fight against these kinds of proposals, but we are also fighting for this type of debate not to be hidden and kept away from popular debate. The boards of undertakings and institutions are not responsible for determining preparedness, training and well-being in this country. In this budget, the Central Party has referred to the unsocial fiscal policy that this government stands for. It has become so with this government that one year after another, the improvised increases in fees have been used to balance their budgets. In total, the fees have been increased by 6.6 billion. kr below the Right and Advance Party. In our alternative budget, we propose to reduce the fees by about 1 billion. kr. First of all, those who create values in our society don't deserve this kind of improvised tax increases from one year to another, whether it's taxi drivers and taxi owners, the food industry or other value creators. They don't deserve to be treated this way. The second reason is that tax increases are fundamentally unsocial. Taxation in a society should primarily be done through a tax system in which the most important must contribute. Fees hit those who have low incomes, and business, very hard. Using taxes in this way is also a problem in climate policy. I must honestly admit that, especially when I hear representatives from the Right and the Advance Party today claim that this taxi tax is a green fee. Using taxes in this way destroys the credibility and legitimacy of a good climate policy. If climate action is to have a deserved upturn among people, it must be effective and effective. People aren't going to be fooled into accepting green taxes that are actually just arising to balance a government budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1664	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1669	The districts of Norway do not live on regional development funds, they live on profitable jobs and exports. The budget of the Central Party threatens the growth of the districts and will not facilitate sustainable value creation. In order to create more jobs across the country, we need to build more roads, grant more to research and reduce the tax burden on people and businesses. The local economy has been strengthened by the Right in Government, so that more value creation is also provided locally. The result of government policy is the lowest unemployment rate in ten years. This is particularly the case in the counties. The centre party, on its side, wants to increase the tax on Norwegian jobs, favour foreign company owners over Norwegian and notify Norway out of the EEA, so that Norwegian companies lose access to a market with more than 500 million people. How does Arnstad expect a profitable business to be created throughout the country – if you do not sell your goods and you get increased tax pressure?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1678	There are an incredible number of drifting souls around Norway that create jobs. Facilitating them is a very important task. There's a lot of ways to do it. Introducing the kind of sugar levy that Right was on last year, and that hit the whole food industry that is not least important in the region that the representative Holm Lønneth and I come from, is not the way to go. Contributing to good transport is a way to go. The Central Party proposes in its alternative budget, for example: to increase the appropriations for the county roads by 1 billion. kr because it's an incredible aftermath. The highways, after all, make up three-quarters of the road network in our country, and that's where the pressure has to be put in to create a good framework for those who create values in our society. Otherwise I agree that we must sell our goods, it is very important. We're going to do that, regardless of whether it's with the Central Party setup or with the Right configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1687	In the debate today, the centre party has been concerned with predictability of fiscal policy. I will give them credit to practice this for themselves, for they have proposed, year after year with high predictability, in their alternative budgets, to increase taxes and charges for the Norwegian people and for Norwegian business – while the Progress Party and the Government have annually reduced the overall tax burden, even though some charges have been raised during the negotiations. But the total tax and tax burden has fallen by about 25 billion. kr. My question to the representative Arnstad is whether she can tell me how much the Central Party has intended to increase taxes and charges in its alternative budget for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1694	We have a comprehensive tax system that we believe is sensible, and which also contributes to the need for those who have the most in society to contribute the most taxably. But what we do – unlike the government – is that we reduce taxes, because taxes are fundamentally unsocial. The problem with this government is that it has financed its tax reliefs with increased taxes, many of them completely arbitrary, added into the budget for one night at the end of the budget negotiations and applied only half a month afterwards, such as the taxi fee that we have discussed here today, which will contribute to one trader in my neighbouring municipality receiving NOK 650 000 in increased costs only from 1 January 2019. In any case, industrial policy and fiscal policy cannot be foreseen.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1701	Nearly 19 years ago, the Central Party went off as a government party on an environmental issue. They would not build highly polluting gas power plants. Today, two months after the warning lights flashed from the Intergovernmental Panel and the day the international climate negotiations begin, the Central Party is promoting a proposal that makes it cheaper to pollute. Pollution on cheap sales is now the Central Party’s response to the climate crisis, so ‘the times they are a-change’. Today, SV, the Workers' Party and the Green Party are promoting a proposal for a separate levy on palm oil. This will prevent Norwegian climate policy from continuing to swim in rainforest destruction and increased emissions. In addition, such a charge will reinforce the investment in the production of biofuels in Norway, based on Norwegian resources. The question to the representative Arnstad is: will the centre party vote for the palm oil levy?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1708	I am very concerned that in the years to come we must have a strong and sensible climate policy that also has legitimacy. To propose tax increases that do not have an impact on climate change is to undermine climate policy. The increases in fees proposed by this government, with the Right and the Advance Party at the head, such as: in the transport sector, charges that are proven to have no climate impact. I think that in the long run will be a problem for the legitimacy of climate policy, especially when at the same time this government is not willing to bet on, for example. a CO 2 fund for commercial transport and heavy transport. It is not about levying increased taxes, but about using the tax revenue that the country receives to convert a whole section of the transport sector. That would have been important. However, this way of defending any small increase in charges on which a climate action will create problems for the legitimacy of climate policy. It's a challenge we have to take seriously – together. And then we're going to get back to the palm oil thing, where we're very much in agreement with SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1716	Then the representative Arnstad can go on to explain why the tax relief works for the climate, because the central party is therefore proposing to provide a relief of 935 million. kr in the case of diesel and petrol taxes. Then she almost has to explain what effect it has on the climate. The centre batch is now the last batch that has not escaped from the exhaust mist. In 2006, the large tax reductions on diesel, in 2009 tax reductions on biofuels were phased out, leading to a large sale of diesel cars, but also to the end of producing biofuels in Norway. This is not really consistent with what the Center Party I know, which will promote biofuel production and forest-based resources. Nothing of this is going on, but first of all, can the representative Arnstad explain how well the fee reductions on diesel of 1 billion kroner. kr is too climate?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1724	The Centre Party proposes a number of tax concessions in this budget. The reason for this is that we think the charging policy that this government stands for is fundamentally unsocial. So here we propose tax relief for those who have a lot of money from before, and then we finance it through new taxes that affect us all, including those who earn little and have little. It's fundamentally unsocial. And until the Left tries to convince the environment that they should balance both their environmental profile and their budget needs with ever-increasing charges: it should be carefully thought through, because it will in the long run reduce the legitimacy of climate policy. I don't think our relief has any particular impact on climate policy either; I think the powerful climate action is in a positive transition, among other things. through the CO 2 fund that the Left spoke about so eagerly before they came into government, but that we now do not see the spin of after they came into government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1734	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1739	SV has submitted a draft budget for the many – not for the few. It is a proposal that prioritises fair distribution and the environment. The most beautiful thing about Norway is strong communities and small differences. It happened because for so long there was a policy in our country that was just for the many and not for the few at the top, with a working life where no one was to stand in the hand, a tax system in which they with the widest shoulders were to carry the heaviest burden, and a welfare state that was not only to be a safety net when things went wrong, but a trampoline to put on, so that everyone's abilities could be put into use and the dreams of ordinary people could also be fulfilled. All of this is under pressure. Differences in power and wealth are increasing, unemployment agencies are spreading in the workplace, and the 10 pst. the lowest wage earner has barely had real wage growth in the last decade. Our welfare model is threatened by the intrusion of the commercial welfare giants, those who are not supposed to serve people but make money. This development is reinforced by a government that thinks most of the few at the top – and not of the many. And that is what we see in the draft budget we are discussing today. Strengthening the rigging of the rich tax system. So this year they receive the super rich – the 10 pst. with the highest wealth – about 40 pst. of all the personal tax code(s). Since 2014, the absolute economic elite here has to land, the 0.1 pst. The richest – 4,300 people – had about 1.4 billion. kr in tax cuts. It's almost not to believe. In the past, the 'elder rebillionaire' was the big word when discussing the budget in the Stortinget. The Progress Party has introduced the ‘elitem billion’ instead. And we all know who pays the price for it: single parents, chroniclers, poor people who are dependent on housing support – the list is long over all the groups in the other end of Norwegian society that have been cut off by the bourgeois. SV submits a draft budget which takes the country in the opposite direction. The tax system is governed by the way it works for the many – with significantly greater tax cuts for ordinary workers than the government can distinguish between them. At the same time, they are to contribute with large assets, top wages, sky-high inheritance and estate tight live-belts. We invest our revenues in a necessary commitment to well-being and justice – in child welfare, in dental reform, in better hospital economy, lower kindergarten prices and free food at high school. And most importantly, we're investing in climate change. After a summer when Europe was on fire, where Norwegian crops dried in, the climate should be a major theme of this harvest. But the government is gripped by paralysis of action. This budget shows that citizens have a course towards breaking all climate targets both in 2020 and in the long term. And the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party is unfortunately completely without climate action. We need a green policy for the many, not a gray policy for the few. Oil directors can no longer determine the course of economic policy in this country. The reason for Norwegian emissions falling slightly is that the government’s climate policy is dimmed in palm oil. However, climate policy should cut emissions in Norway, not cut the rainforest in Indonesia. Palm oil must leave Norwegian cars, and large climate investments must enter the Norwegian state budget. Therefore, SV proposes a huge increase in environmental and climate investment: 9 billion. kr in green investments and investments. It's taking responsibility for the future. Finally, one day like this, it's important to send a thought to those who have it tough in our society. This weekend, a number of the community's supporters, several of the richest in our country, have sued the Municipality of Oslo because of the City Council's decision on property taxes. There's probably a gist of understanding and thought through the people. It must then be good – and they will be proved by the budgetary procedure today – that at least they have a government that has deep care and a great deal of understanding of how difficult it is to be rich in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1754	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1759	The question is whether SV longer has some credibility in climate policy. When a big newspaper presented a selection survey a little while ago, my party had the greatest credibility there, not the Socialist Left Party, and that might not be so strange. When they were in government, they delivered a climate message that no one was satisfied with, and the civil side had to go in the right direction. They now provide proposals to cut emissions by 2020, but almost all the proposals they propose will be implemented in 2020, or subsequently. It's simply not credible. In the alternative budget of SV for 2019 they cut massively into important research on how we can bring down the emissions on Norwegian pedestal. Where is the credibility if you don't want to research how we can bring down the emissions on our base?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1766	First of all, I would like to thank the representative Heggelund for taking a line on me in this debate as well. I'm starting to feel a little human marked by the representative Heggelund, it's very pleasant. I have to remind you that statistics can be read in many ways. As long as – I want to underline as long – the right has more voters than the SV, there will be a good many Right-Choosers who say they have the highest belief in the Right in climate policy, but both that and the distribution of the parties between them can change. As I said in my post: SV increases the investment in the environment and climate in this budget by 9 billion. kr. There is little doubt that there is an abyss-deep difference in the climate and environmental effort that the representative Heggelund is presenting and the one we are voting for today. There is also a strong commitment to research into what we will live on in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1773	I think it is nice that the representative Lysbakken thinks it is nice that I often take a line on him. I'm just doing what I'm told, so that's the way it is. [[Laughter]] I have to say that if the Lysbakken believes that the government's budget proposal is a sort of downturn for the climate, he should look at the climate budgets he delivered when he was in government. We deliver more at every point than the Socialist Left Party managed to get through to government. Then we don't know why they won't investigate how we can get the emissions on the base down. That's okay, because then you don't have an answer to that. But in today's debate, we have heard that one of the SV's best friends, the Center Party, has reacted in all its contributions to the green fee for the taxi industry, where, if you're going to buy a new taxi, a polluting fossil dross, you have to pay the same one-time fee as everyone else who buys polluting fossil cars. Does the Lightbakken look forward to possible government negotiations once with the Center Party, and does he agree that this is a green fee?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1782	If one is going to go into history – and the government parties are going to love it very much, because as they go into their sixth year of power, they still have a hang to tell about how terrible it was during the last government, and it shows that you have little to boast of yourself – it's just to remember the great environmental victories that came during the red-green years: not only the Lofoten, the Vestral and Senja, a number of offensive climate measures, but also that the emissions went down in ways other than under this government, which makes palm oil dunked measures that lead to rainforest shooting elsewhere. Otherwise, SV and the Senterpartie do not agree on the taxi fee. I'm sure it's no surprise. On the other hand, we agree that the liberalisation of the taxi industry proposed by the government is harmful. I am pleased that the representative is tracking government negotiations between the SV and the Central Party. I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1789	We've heard a fairly predictable post from the representative Light Hill about increasing differences and increasing inequalities, and that we're going to talk to the weak in society. It is in itself a touching thought that we can all agree on, but when I hear the Lightbox go up and attack private health providers as a cause for increased differences, I am completely concerned about this. Private health providers contribute to the treatment of more people, more people get into work and increase well-being, not the opposite. But we know that the main driving factor for increasing differences in Norway is immigration. The SSB has recently published figures showing that almost all increases in poverty occur among immigrants. Then I miss the answer from Lysbakken: What do they intend to do with it, and is it that Lysbakken still has Sweden as a model when he looks at immigration and integration policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1796	I fully agree that my post was predictable, I really set my honor in keeping very predictable posts. I'm talking about fair distribution and environment every time and I'm going to keep going. There is a need for the jam, so little of this government is of fair distribution and environment. I don't remember actually saying something about private health providers, but it's true that I think the commercialisation of well-being and welfare benefits is a big problem. Otherwise, it is very predictable – when we talk about predictability – that the Progress Party will make any discussion about inequality a discussion about immigration. It is strange that the Progress Party is so little concerned, for example. the debate that is very topical about inequality now, which is about the way in which immigration affects our working life, because this government repeatedly chooses a policy on employers' premises rather than on employees' premises.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1805	I understand that SV has to spend 9 billion. kr on climate action following a diesel car policy that has created a lot of exhaust, and that we are about to get out of Norwegian air. The representative's former party leader, Kristin Halvorsen, says in the newspaper today that it probably went a little too far. That's some of what we're cleaning up today. I could ask if the representative Lysbakken agrees with his former finance minister and party leader that there were too much relief in the diesel car charges, and that we have a large cleaning job, which we are doing. But I asked Jonas Gahr Støre earlier today about the climate budget, because it is a joint proposal from the Workers' Party, Red, the Green and SV Environmental Party. What is the climate budget going to give, in addition to making a budget? The information is in the government's proposal, it is the Environment Directorate that has delivered the figures, and from 2021 we are going to deliver climate accounts to the EU, so what is the climate budget to give us?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1813	The climate budget will provide us with a much more concrete tool to reduce emissions, so that it becomes clear not only what kind of impact the state budget has on the country's economy, but what kind of impact it has on the environment and on the climate. There's a lot of strange storywriting about this thing with diesel. There was broad political support for the conversion of the charging system at the time, and the objective was not the most feasible diesel but the least possible greenhouse gas emissions. That's what was the conversion. When the then government saw that this also had consequences, among other things. for air pollution in cities, the policy was changed. It's absolutely right that SV has 9 billion. kr more for environmental and climate action. This is because what the Left budget has been involved in delivering is so bad in climate and environment, has a course to break the climate targets for 2020, has a course to break the 2030 climate targets, and the Left at the same time refuses to take the initiative for a climate settlement in the United Kingdom. Then we really need 9 billion. kr more than left.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1822	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1827	We are living at a time when important liberal values are under pressure, and where international cooperation and interaction are perhaps more important than ever, a time when both right and left-wing populist parties are well placed to reinforce the perception that the nation state must once again be self-sufficient. With such a hindrance, it is very good to be able to establish, as a representative of the Left, the Social Liberal Party in Norway, that today we will be able to adopt a budget that will help to maintain and strengthen some of the best things with Norway: community based on cohesion and tolerance, with little differences, with people who are so safe on themselves, their own history and their own identity, that together we are able to meet the unknown, the insecure, and the lack of respect and sincere willingness to stand up for each other and the world out there, based on values we must never see as self-evident, which must always be restrained and strengthened. Freedom is a central value of social liberalism, but should freedom be real to all, one must also be free from nudity, poverty and inequality – the social dimension that explains why Left will always fight for early action, a strong public school and against child poverty, in order to secure everyone, regardless of the background and social status of parents and to establish the same starting point and just small differences. When the Left went into government negotiations last winter, the goal was to make a possible government we would be part of, smoker, greener and more social liberal. The government budget presented earlier in the fall, showed to the full that the Left, together with good government colleagues in the Right and the Advance Party, put action behind the words. An already extensive effort to combat child poverty was further expanded and strengthened. Free nursery core time was extended to all two-year-olds, as well as to three-, four- and five-year-olds. The income limit for so-called low-income families was raised to include an additional 6 500 children, and we increase support for families with children and other large households. Despite large growth in GDP — and fortunately for it — the government prioritises delivering 1 pst. in aid aid, with an increase of almost 3 billion. kr. By committing us to receiving 3,000 quota refugees, Norway's safer responsibility for people who are in the deepest, worst needy man can come in – fear of his own and family's life. It is also a good idea to be able to establish that the government budget agreement has been negotiated with the Christian People's Party, has strengthened and expanded the budget next year as regards solidarity, equivalency and social security networks – increasing child welfare, additional health and school health services, strengthening the school, which is the most important tool we have for social smoothing and giving all the same starting points, and a standard of child care and several permanent, organised jobs. And in deep respect for the process, the debate and the decision of the Christian People's Party to enter into real government negotiations, I have to admit that I am looking forward to the negotiations which hopefully take place early in the New Year. The results of the last five years in the four parties have, through budgetary cooperation and cooperation in other important matters, ensured that any binding government cooperation will strengthen policy in entirely decisive areas and important values beyond – climate, industrial policy, agricultural policy, districts, the fight against poverty both at home and abroad, international solidarity and not least putting people ahead of the system, leading a policy that ensures communities where people live and work, not communities that are synonymous with a strong all-embracing state, and a society that puts greater emphasis on equality than equality, knowing that treating one all equals, treats one in reality all different, because we have different needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1842	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1847	There were enough people who had a certain hope that there would be a slightly clearer climate profile with the Left in government, and not least that this might be the opportunity to provide a clear explanation of the climate impact of proposed budget measures. This did not happen, unfortunately, but the Labour Party has presented its own proposal and gone through, on the basis of the calculation method of the Environment Directorate, how our concrete proposals, presented in the budget, also have climate budgets and how to achieve the 2030 targets. My question to Mr Breivik's representative is: can he guarantee that at the next crossroads, i.e. at the next budget, we will have a correspondingly clear sectoral climate emissions budget for the state budget? In our opinion, this is a budget which is at least as important as the State budget itself, also because there are no new emissions budgets, while new government budgets are coming every year.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1854	First, I want to say that it's amazing that the opposition Workers' Party is so pleased with the government's commitment to climate that they're now going in the rush to strengthen their efforts further. The starting point for joint action is as follows, given all that this government has done to provide the basis for Norway to be one of the leading countries in the world that will help us to cope together with the worst climate change. Only in this budget is there a tremendous increase in crowns and ears – without having to bother the assembly with it – to further strengthen different climate action, at the top of making effective use of the market by reducing taxes and taxes on what we want more of, i.e. climate-friendly behaviour. So, I welcome recordings from the Workers' Party, which we'll of course take with us in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1861	I think there are many overall goals we agree on, and we should be happy about that, because it is important that we set broad goals and try to achieve them together, but what I am looking for is whether we can demonstrate exactly what the individual decisions in the budget lead to from climate change emissions. We know that we are far behind the targets we have set in Norway towards 2020. It is highly uncertain whether we reach the 2030s, and the world is far behind. I believe that this by understanding how we can dispose of the few remaining emissions we still have on the globe before we have to be climate neutral, is almost more important than how we distribute crowns and ears in society. Is it not better to have a governance instrument where, in addition to setting targets, we say ‘that action has that effect’? The Directorate-General for the Environment has proposed a method of calculation that we believe is good, but the government has not intervened in order to specify the climate impact of its proposals in this budget. Will they do it at the next crossroads?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1866	The most important thing when it comes to climate change is that we take action, whether it is using market forces, green taxes and taxes, or various measures that reinforce all the exciting developments of technology in Norwegian business, and encourage it. As I said instead, I salute, as a representative of a government party, welcome input that can be well worth evaluating. However, it was quite wrong for me to stand on the pulpit in Stortinget and promise something on behalf of the government in the government budget for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1871	When the centre party in this debate repeatedly asks well-founded questions about the tax message for the taxi industry that is in the budget agreement, we get answers back on the green switch. The left is now in government with the right of initiative. This is a proposal that has not been examined, has not been put to the hearing, is not part of the proposal that, among other things, The left was involved in promoting the state budget. Even when the budget agreement came with this, it was also not presented as a win for the climate or as a green shift. One was still in the mouse until the taxi industry came and explained what kind of concrete effects this has. Then a sudden card draws about a green shift. But if you want a green shift, you have to have an alternative in place. The taxi industry indicated that for those taxi models which receive the largest charge signal, such as: is used to carry wheelchair users, it is not a good alternative, neither in the city, where there are narrow streets, nor in the countryside, where one does not have sufficient reach. Why doesn't it make sense to spend more time on investigations a question before you introduce it just overnight?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1878	The representative Gülsvik shall have the honour to repeat the same question over and over again. This is not a new fee for existing cars. This is a fee that first turns out the day taxi industry buys a new car. In this way, there is no doubt — and all experience suggests this — that a market force, including in the environmental service, will be applied. I would like to remind the representative, Gielsvik, that a parallel to the fact that one here removes a fee exemption that de facto works against a green bet, i.e. the weight tax for taxis, has also increased the depreciation rates in e.g. the heavy goods transport and the kind of things, so that one gets the incentive to replace the car fleet in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1885	If we are betting on student welfare and the full-time student, we will get fresher students, says Iselin Nybø to Stavanger Aftenblad last August. Nevertheless, the formerly so proud school party Left, both as a support party for the Right-Fremskritsparte-Government and now with the responsible State Council for Research and Higher Education, has cut close to 1 billion. kr in the support of the students. Thousands of students gathered last Thursday and demonstrated against new cuts in student funding. This is going to be pretty arrogant from the Council of State. I don't think extra 17 000 kroner in loans will prevent a student from changing his mind. Is this representative of the student policy of the Left, or is it an example of the lack of success of the Left in meeting with the Right and the Advance Party when they are going to take over to the country's all, the richest?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1893	Then I want to remind the questioner that the first left did when we entered the power position five years ago, was to fulfill the wish that the red-green parties had promised the students for almost eight years, simply to expand the support to apply for eleven months. It keeps us up and running now and facing in step by step. We are soon in the target of this, perhaps the most important measure, in parallel with a strong commitment to other student welfare and various measures that make life a major asset of the full-time student.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1898	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1903	I have actually received a letter from the tax administration during this debate, at 5 p.m. 13.24 a letter appeared. I opened it -- I had hoped it was a message that the Christian People's Party budget was the best. It was probably more professional than that, but I think it's a good reminder of how good an appliance we have, just a tax that's basically technological, which is the future. So, looking stiffly at the Minister of Finance, she has to bring it back. Regardless of the discussions we have here, we have a very good system. I would like to start with a thank you to the Right, the Progress Party and the Left for the agreement on the 2019 budget. As it has appeared in the media in the last few days: this unity gave a historic boost to the family, a bet that the Christian People's Party delights in. It was a good mood when the Christian People's Party decided on this budget in the big group say – yes, it was almost as if we wanted to open a few bottles of wine, of course without that happening. But we're happy with family because for the first time since 1996, we're getting an increase in child welfare. Now she's going to be raised by $1,000 a year per child. This will strengthen the freedom of choice of family members, and it will reduce child poverty. The Christian People's Party has also been given the privileges of several teachers in the school and of adding them to the kindergartens. We have negotiated an increase in the minimum pension for single minimum pensioners – at NOK 4000 a year – and we have ensured the establishment of an independent elderly community, a matter of the Christian People's Party and the Progress Party have cooperated well on. Minimum pensioners are overrepresented in our low-income groups and are not benefiting from the tax credits in the budget of employees and pensioners. That's why we needed to increase our minimum pension. So let's do that for the third time. We are also pleased with significant victories within climate and value creation. Now we are removing the 350-kroner limit, which has given Norwegian companies a strong competitive disadvantage in relation to the rest of the world. There is a need for sustainable value creation throughout the country. This has been requested by the Norwegian business community, and the Christian People's Party and the Government Party will do so from 1 January 2020. The Christian People's Party is a family priority. We make sure that Norway for the first time in over 20 years increases child welfare. To have children costs. For example, increased child-responsiveness may include: makes it easier to send children to cultural and sporting activities. This can mean a lot for the social development of the children and for inclusion. Besides, I'm going to increase the one-time rate. For those who have done little work, the parental penalties range from NOK 63 000 to NOK 83 000. In at least seven out of ten cases where mother received single-entry benefits, the family lives below or around the poverty line. Nevertheless, today's parental pension scheme provides at least these parents and most of all those who have been in work and who have more already. This enhances the differences between family members. I'm surprised by the reactions to this. That the Workers' Party is against cash support is as expected. The fact that the Labour Party is opposed to an increase in child welfare is more surprising – and also the one-time benefit, when we know that in seven out of ten cases where mother received a single-time benefit, the family lives below the poverty line. Gahr Støre says to the Evening Post that when Norwegian parents get increased child welfare, single-time support and cash support, the motivation to work is to work unbalanced. I mean the foundation towards the workline when it comes to both the child's health and the single-use benefit, it's very weak. When Norwegian parents select these schemes, the money is rarely tempted. There is also no lack of work motivation. They simply take what they think is best for themselves, for their families and for their children. The cash support makes it possible for more people to make such a choice. With the Labour Party's policies, only the richest will make it possible to have a real freedom of choice. I record that the left is opposite the increase in the single-time benefit, while the SV is too. I think we have to take seriously the birth figures we see now – without money being the only reason for falling birth rates.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1924	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1929	The Christian People's Party's alternative budget did not have the big tax cuts, and the funded welfare efforts say in a fair way, I would say. Now the Christian People's Party for the sixth year in a row has swallowed camels by accepting large tax cuts to the richest. Looking at the impact of the budgetary agreement this year, there are many traces of both small and large spending yokes, but few traces of the Christian People's Party's priorities and reforms. Now I'm not going to owe it to the representative Hareide – on the contrary – for climate taxes that work, and huge taxes to the richest, we can be a few if not to be the Christian People's Party's choice. But how will the Christian People’s Party secure the strength of the welfare effort in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1934	I thank you for the question. If we look at the soundness of the government budget, corporate tax is one of the major reductions in this budget. It is also a tax that goes down because other countries in Europe have actually had a fall in corporate tax. Our companies compete with other companies, and then it's like the Christian People's Party has supported him. When we were in the Bondevik II administration, it was primarily where we could ensure a reduction in corporate taxation in order to create jobs. If we also look at the changes that have been made in the budget agreement itself here in the Storting, the change that has been made on the tax side is, among other things, the change. that the step tax has gone up further. It's those who have an income of over 1 million. kr that is framed by that increase, and it seems that the Christian People's Party has a good profile, which we so absolutely support.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1943	I notice that there are many in the Christian People's Party a day who are preparing to drive black cars, while the representative Hareide, like most of us, still has to drive a taxi. I'm sure both the representative Hareide and I can live well with that. He may be allowed to sit on me in a taxi if there is a need for it if there is any obvious need. But there are a lot of people in the country who depend on taxis every day. It's older, it's sick, it's school students, it's disabled. Does the representative not see that when a person introduces such a tax notice for some taxi models overnight, without sufficient alternatives in place, it becomes a problem in terms of securing a taxi anywhere, always and in view of the social profile?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1950	I am sure that we will have good taxis even after this scheme has been introduced, from 1 January 2019. So that's how we make the change, too, to make taxi nutrition greener. In the Christian People's Party's alternative budget, this was not a proposal we had, but it was a solution that we found together with the other parties, which we are to defend. It is also true that when the representative has the surname Gegelsvik, he knows that in a budget, both income pages and expenditure pages must be found in order to achieve a good balance. We have also done just that in this budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1957	Now it's like over 100,000 children grow up in poor families in this country, and it's one of the worst consequences of the increasing inequality in power and wealth. At the same time, child welfare has remained silent since 1996. That is why we are very pleased that the Christian People's Party has been negotiating an increase in the budgetary agreement. But increased child-responsiveness does not reach everyone. It does not reach the almost 50,000 children who may need it the most, namely children in families receiving social assistance. Today, SV is promoting a proposal for a change in the law that will ensure that children's protection comes to everyone, including those who need it the most. The proposal has no budgetary implications for the state budget, but nevertheless the Christian People's Party has announced that they will vote against it. So the Christian People's Party did not prioritise this in the debates. Christian People's Party does not give priority to this either today. Therefore, I would like to ask the representative if the families of these 50,000 children can have some confidence that the Christian People's Party will give this priority at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1966	Just increasing child-restraint is the structural measure that will be most important to do something about child-restraint in our own country. It's right, as the representative of the Supreme Court says, that because of the local authorities' ability to regulate this, when it comes to very many, including those who need it the most. In that municipality we're now, Oslo, we know that it's going to be full because this municipality doesn't look child-responsive to social statements, among other things. But in some municipalities that doesn't happen. We are willing to look at this, but we think it is wrong to adopt a decision that will have budgetary implications – not necessarily for the state budget, but it will have consequences for the local government budget around the country. We must respect that. But we're busy with the problem, because we see that it's a real problem. If the increase in child welfare is to benefit those who need it the most, it is something we have to look at – but not with a proposal that has direct consequences. We need to know what we're doing before we go in for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1976	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e1981	Municipalities are the foundations of the welfare society and provide important welfare services to all citizens. The municipalities provide a good school that gives everyone the opportunity, they provide us with safe health and care services at different stages of life, and they facilitate the creation of growth and employment in their communities. Before this government joined in 2013, there was a lot of talk that the municipalities were going to suffer – yes, the word ‘starch feed’ was frequently used. But after five years in government, the municipalities have had strong income growth, and they have achieved good results. In 2017, the local government sector received a net operating surplus of 3.9 pst. of the revenue. Although the results in 2017 were slightly weaker than in the previous year, 2006 and 2016 are the only years in the 2000s where the results have been better. ROBEK is the register of municipalities and counties which are in financial imbalances. By the end of 2017, there were 28 municipalities registered in ROBEK, while at the end of 2018 there will only be 17 municipalities left in ROBEK. That is the lowest number since the register was established in 2001. The main reason is several years of good municipal economy. There is also good reason to believe that the number of ROBEK municipalities will be further reduced in 2019. The fear propaganda has been put to shame, and the government is adding to the continued growth of the municipal sector’s revenues in 2019. Following the budgetary agreement, the growth of the free revenues can be estimated at about 2.4 billion. kr. This implies a growth of 0.6 pst. Plus 325 million is going to be right over there. kr to resource-intensive users, which further strengthens the community structure. In the budget agreement, the government parties agree with the Christian People's Party to redispatch 200 million. kr of the free income of an ear-marked strengthening of the teacher’s norm. We propose that the entire growth of the free revenues in 2019 be given to the municipalities. We do that because it is the municipalities that are estimated to increase demographic expenditure in 2019. In fact, county authorities are expected to reduce demographic expenditure next year, as it is decreasing in the 16-18 age group. In other words, it means an increased room for action for county councils. The opposition proposes to transfer more money to the municipalities than the government does, but the bill is sent to people most and to business. And it's not necessarily that everything gets better just a user more money. We're among the countries in the world that spend the most money on school and health, but unfortunately that doesn't mean we have the very best school or the very best hospitals. Quality is about more than money. And when the bill for opposition transfers is sent to people most and to business, it becomes more expensive to work and more expensive to create more jobs. It is not a sustainable policy. Then it is more important that we use fiscal policy to realise a sustainable welfare society, where more people can contribute to the state budget instead of living from it. Increased appropriations for the municipalities are important, but I am also concerned that the resources are being used in a good way. Municipalities convert and streamline to release resources. That work must continue. It's e.g. so that 0,5 pst. Improving efficiency in 2019 will release €1.2 billion. kr in Kommune-Norway. That's $12 billion. kr that can be used for better education, more care or other services – in addition to what is the increase in income we raise. Summing up, the municipal plan for 2019 provides a good room for action for further development of a good service offer. That space for action may be further enhanced by an even more efficient use of available resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e2000	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e2005	I share the Council of State's view of the importance of municipalities for the welfare and services of most people. But the Council of State goes very far in taking on the credit for the good community economy, and she knows just as well as I do that it is not because of the government's arrangements, but exceptional tax revenues – mainly related to tax adjustment as a result of a tax reform. If one goes into the government's own figures and sees the growth of the municipalities' revenues for 2018 and 2019 in the context, then a negative growth in the municipalities' free revenues is achieved. So it won't provide more well-being and better services. On the contrary, it will give more urgency and make it more difficult to prioritize the important tasks facing the municipalities. Then the question is asked: Why does the government choose such a strict arrangement for the municipalities, when you see 2018 and 2019 in the context?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e2010	I believe that we are delivering a very good and solid municipal structure here, and the history description of the representative Sivertsen, of course, I do not agree. Although it is true that extraordinary tax revenue has been retained, it is not just an explanation of the good results and the fact that there are many fewer municipalities on the ROBEK list than there has ever been. It is important to add to a balanced municipal structure. The worst thing we can do now, when we've been through the oil crisis, is spend more oil money than we should. And adding that business – which we rely on to create employment and growth in municipalities across the country – will pay increased taxes and taxes, as the Workers' Party adds, I don't think is sustainable. On the contrary, we must ensure that municipalities can still provide good services. We do, and then we have to make sure that we have a business that has competitive conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e2017	I do not agree with the Council of State, which describes a scheme for the local economy, which in 2018 and 2019 – in context – actually leads to a real decline in the free revenues. And I don't think the 33 right-hand-driven municipalities that have increased their property tax experience that either. They have had to do it since 2015, until 2017, according to a review of the SSB figures. On the contrary, they feel compelled to collect a tax which they claim they are opposed to, but which, because of the government's weak local economy structure, they have to introduce anyway. What does the Council of State think about that?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e2022	I have no idea what calculation methods the representative is using. So it's added up to a 0.6 pst free income growth. Next year. Plus 200 is going to be equal to 200 million. kr earmarked for early effort and SEK 325 million. kr, which is a strengthening for resource-intensive users. Two plus two is still four, that's not minus four. Here you just have to go through the math, and then you see that it's being added up to an increased space of action next year as well. It is true that a number of municipalities have chosen – not but chosen – both to introduce and to increase property taxes. There is also something the municipality decides, that is something the municipality is responsible for. We're all supporters of municipal autonomy as long as we agree with the decisions, but when we disagree, we have to take responsibility for it. It's not like that. The municipalities are free to prioritize, and I have shown that there is an action room of 1.2 billion. kr if you streamline 0.5 pst. in the municipal budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e2032	At the hearing of the committee, I think, the great concern of all the county councils was the lack of regional development funds. KS pointed out this development, and many of the other hearing bodies pointed out that it is impossible to take the role of regional development actor without tools in the toolbox. The county council will now have a greater role to play in regional development in relation to new tasks for the county. At the same time, we see that it's a new contraction once again. It is a halve compared to the budget of Stoltenberg II for 2014. There are no tools left in the toolbox. My great concern is how the county council will then take on a strengthened role as regional development actor. What are the budgetary measures taken by the government to strengthen the county as a regional development actor? The centre batch has significantly strengthened that entry and, in addition, strengthened trade by 1.5 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e2037	I am concerned that we strengthen the instruments that we know to hit, and that work best. I am happy to meet one single resident and one single enterprise that is calling for the regional policy development funds. But I've met state politicians who want to increase their appropriations, and that's not very strange. What this government has done is to increase the post of commerce, increase the bet on county roads. It's important, especially in the districts. We have also increased the investment in nationwide schemes in Innovation Norway, SIVA and the Research Council, which assists in the development and growth of all enterprises throughout the country. It has a higher target than regional development funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e2042	Social housing policy has been severely weakened by this government. The house bank has received reduced funds. A young person with payment ability no longer receives a start-up loan and the ability to build up equity, but has to rent expensively and cannot buy. The worst is housing. We spend less on dollars and dollars in next year's budget than we did in 2009. Then you can ask yourself, has it become cheaper to live? No, it doesn't. Have those with low income had an increase in their income? No, they don't. There are two things that create this. One is that new developments after the default reform do not fall within the regime proposed by the government. The second is that it is a great aftertaste because the housing support has not been set up every year, as the government has now rightly suggested from here. It's a big gap. What is the reason why the government believes that we need such a much weaker social housing policy now than we needed before?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e2049	I totally disagree with the story description of the representative. The house bank shall be a complement to the ordinary housing market. The framework of the household bank has fallen since the financial crisis, but that is because the framework has been greatly increased during the financial crisis. So it was a targeted tool. Now it's going to be a supplement. It is also not right for young people not to get a start-up loan. Young people get a starter. Historical payments of start-up loans have also been made this year, especially to families with children. It is a desired policy. In the case of the housing stock, this government has changed the arrangement so that it is now crowned. It's important. In next year's budget, housing aid is increased by 60 million. kr for the families with children. It's important to work against child poverty. We have also said that the transitional arrangements for defaulting in the event of the default reform will be permanent, so that they do not lose the uncertainty they are aware of, and that the minimum pensioners will not lose their housing support even if they get an increased pension.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e2059	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e2064	The Labour Party has created an alternative budget for stronger communities and not least for an organised and serious working life with more people at work. I have not been able to avoid noticing that both the Minister of Labour, in newspapers, and the fiscal spokesman of the Right, in this Chamber, have claimed that the Labour Party does not represent the working line. In this, there is only one kind of claim that they do it themselves, but the reality is that the Norwegian economy is experiencing lighter times, while the unemployment rate is not expected to fall. One third of those who are pre-employment are out of work. Many of them have the desire, the will and the ability to work, but are not allowed to fit into the labour market. For the last five years, while the right-wing government has been responsible, there have been four new young people every single working day. Now I must stress that it is not that the right-wing government leads to disability, but what they are responsible for is the lack of effort on the part of the government. They are responsible for the lack of innovation on the part of the government. We saw that, for example. in the fall when the 25 - year - old Gun Marie was mentioned in the VG. She was told quite early, she ended up in a permanent organized workplace. She had a very simple wish, it was to complete her letter and get to work in the ordinary working life. The Minister of Labour's answer was to show that the government had seen money for long-term organized jobs. Now it is the Workers' Party's view that permanent organized jobs are fine – but give people opportunities when people have the desire, the ability and the will to work and be part of the ordinary working life. That is what we call an activity reform for young people. It is about stories that are hers, about young people who want to work in the ordinary way – that they should be able to get a guarantee of jobs rather than get a permanent declaration of inadequacy. We have listened to professionals from the Frischsenteret and Fafo, and we also recommend that the government – show willingness to think new things to get more people to work. This is the taskbar in practice. It is also the taskbar to show that we will use lighter economic times to get more people to work, especially those who are far from working. There is some reason why we have 2000 more places in labour market measures when it applies to both ordinary labour market measures and measures for those with disabilities. It's not time for cut, it's time for bet. The government has invited you to get more people to work. At present, it seems that they think they're doing well in the most literal sense of the word, i.e. that it's basically everyone else than the ones who's going to contribute and pay for it. There is a need to take a number of major steps, including economic ones, in the budget. The same applies to the commitment to competence. We know that there are people at risk of falling out of work due to increased skills requirements, and that others may feel that the threshold into the labour market is getting higher. We know, for example, 800,000 grown Nordics lack basic ICT skills, and we know that almost everyone in the job may need more skills at regular intervals. This is more than a matter of plans – economic muscles, implementing capacity, tripartite cooperation, joint ownership by the social partners and an agreement on reform of competences. It suggests the Workers' Party. We also saw 1.2 billion. D more on empowerment for our own people. Of this, we've seen 100 million. to an independent competence fund for which we wish the social partners to be involved in the provision and prioritisation of the labour market. The working line is for the Labour Party to make demands for people, but also to set people up, to have expectations for the individual, but also to do what is necessary to help, support and ensure that more people come to work – while government policies in this area have proved to be demands and cut, but very little support. The government has combined cut off measures to help people work with a massive increase in cash benefits. We're worried that this will lead to even more people moving from work to social benefits. There is an attack on the taskbar. It takes away people's possibilities both today in the form of missing links to work and also in the long term because it has meaning for the financing of our well-being. We in the Workers' Party will have stronger communities, so we also have to give individuals more opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e2085	In contrast to what you can get the impression when you sit and listen to the debate, especially from the left, Norway is actually doing pretty well. Unemployment is the lowest in ten years, especially in the districts. More jobs are created, 56 000 in the last year. Growth is on the rise, the employment rate is increasing, fewer people are out of work, and we get responsible money use. The conversion of the Norwegian economy must continue, so that we get more legs to stand on in the future as well. Competitiveness needs to be strengthened by greening business, smarter and more innovative. We're making sure that most of the new jobs come in private businesses. Therefore, the government prioritises the development of road and rail throughout the country. Research, innovation and competences are areas in which we focus further. Compared to the government's budget line, on the left hand side, the budget mates will make it more expensive to work and more expensive to create jobs. It's worrying, especially at a time when we need more people to work. Now the time off is coming down, and as I mentioned earlier, there are 56,000 new jobs created last year. That's what we need more of. But there are also clouds in the horizon. We know that from 2021, the arrows in the oil and gas industry will point downwards. Few new fields have been found in the last few years, and we are at risk of a new oil crisis. Then our message is to Norwegian companies: we will help you create new jobs. I would warn against a red food policy cocktail where the tax is greatly increased, is skeptical to the EEA, will restrict the farming industry and remove the exploration system for the oil and gas industry – with an MDG at the head, which wants to shut down the oil and gas industry and send 200 000 people in doubt. It will affect many families. That's why it's extra surprising to hear the Workers' Party say several times that MDG and Red are the parties that you would like to talk to more closely. This will be a recipe for creating fewer jobs in Norway. If the large numbers are also to have a meaning for those who have the least, we need to have a targeted policy against this particular group. That is why this government has ensured that more children have free core time in kindergarten, that more children are offered activity, that we strengthen the area initiatives in the cities that have large social differences, and that we renew the efforts that have already been there. Many people talk about child poverty, but it is not the children who are poor, it is the family who is poor. The family is poor because it often has only one or no income, and has the family one income, it is often because the husband is working. This is precisely why the knowledge policy, inclusiveness, together with the new integration strategy, ensures that children do not fall out of school and that their parents can become part of the working life. That's what makes the path from being a refugee to a taxpayers' society become as short as possible. That's what makes school a venue for equalizing social differences. That's how we create a society with opportunities for everyone, and that's precisely how we make a government budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e2100	It's going well in Norway. Unemployment is low, employment is increasing, and growth is good. It's not primarily because of crazy talented politicians in this room, it's because we have people who get up every morning, take on the suit or the boiler, go to work and create the values that we're so lucky to get benefits here today. When you hear speeches from some politicians on the left, you would think that you live in a completely different reality – a world where the government budget only has a cost side, not a income page, a world where the framework conditions for business have nothing to say about the number of jobs, a world where everything can be solved by throwing more public money at all the challenges and problems. Fortunately, such a world is not sought by the voters of the country. The Labour Party lost the election last year because the voters wanted lower taxes and taxes, not increased taxes and taxes. People want to keep a little more of their own income, so that the room for action and the freedom of choice of the individual family increases. In spite of this, the Labour Party in its alternative state budget proposes the strongest tax consolidation of all the budgets submitted by the Labour Party since 2013. It's the wrong medicine. We have to create more, not more treasure. The government and the majority continue with the budget for the next year with the project we launched just over five years ago: a policy that provides a simpler and safer everyday life for people and business and work, which focuses on the most important ones in our lives and on those who need the greatest society. In August of this year, over 60,000 students in 1st class began. The rapid learning of reading, accounting and writing by these students is crucial for their future — for them to complete higher education and to become part of the labour market in the future. Good teachers are the key to students learning more. Students and parents shall ensure that teachers are highly qualified professionals. That is why we have improved and strengthened teacher training. Whether the teacher has a bachelor's or a master's degree doesn't matter in itself – it's just words. What matters is the competence and depression of the teacher, and that's best for the teacher with a five-year education. There are still parts in this room that are conflicting. Similarly, there are parties in this room who propose to cut heavily in the appropriations for the further and further training of teachers, despite the fact that we know how important the teacher is for children's learning. Since 2014, some 20 000 teachers have been offered continuing training and this autumn more than 7 000 teachers have started continuing training. It's a good investment we're also continuing in the budget for next year, just because it works well. For today's majority, it has been important to build the country. It makes everyday life easier for most people and for business. We build roads and railways at a pace that never before. With the 2019 draft budget, the transport budget has increased by 75 p.m. since that government took over in 2013. Road and track have really been given an economic boost in recent years, but as important as how much we grant is how we spend the money. New Roads, which the opposition opposed, and the rail reform, which the opposition continues to oppose, have saved and will save taxpayers for billions of dollars, which we can spend on other investments instead of heavy red tape and inefficient processes. As roads improve and safer, they increase the competitiveness of Norwegian enterprises, which in many cases operate in an international market. There's a lot of political action we can take in this room to strengthen our own competitive situation. The most important thing, however, is not that we alone are masters of, and that is the access to a market – that we have someone to sell our goods to. I am pleased that the Minister of Finance was so clear in his intervention on the importance of free trade and open markets. The biggest threat to our prosperity today is that land is closing down. It's just looking at the story to see what it can do to a society. The Soviet Union, North Korea, Cuba, Venezuela – the examples are many. You might think that today's contract work is not perfect – there are very few agreements that are. But that we actually have an agreement with our closest and most important trading partner, is not something we have to throw at the boat at a time when we need more trade, not less, to maintain our well-being and prosperity.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e2119	Our task as elected representatives of the Norwegian economy is to put Norwegian interests first. Yeah, who else is going to do that, if we don't make sure? We need to make sure that the interests of Norwegian companies are focused, in competition with foreign companies, such as other countries. experience totally unfair subsidies against Norwegian business. We are to stand up to Norwegian workers who experience unfair competition from foreign workers. We will stand up for national ownership and control as a basis for our prosperity and well-being both today and in the future. We're going to listen to our ancestors, we're going to use it to build wise policies for the future, and we're going to exploit national space of action. It is interesting to see the description that the government itself gives in its government budget, which is also in the position we have for treatment today. One describes that in recent years one has had increased exports, increased investment and improved competitiveness for Norwegian industry, and one indicates that it is precisely the change in the krone price that has driven a lot of that change and improvement in competitiveness. Yes, the current government should thank the Norwegian people, who on two occasions have shown great wisdom and predictability by saying no to Norwegian membership of the EU, by ensuring that we still have our own currency, that we can govern our own monetary policy and not be subject to developments in other countries in that area. Unfortunately, instead of thanking, the government of the day is adding to the further over-management of Norway by the EU. We have seen it in the last year through the fact that vital parts of Norwegian energy policy, regulation of energy, are to be placed under the EU Energy Agency. We have seen it through the fact that the EU is going to override Norwegian railway policy, that there are foreigners going to drive Norwegian trains, and that the dividends are going to disappear out of the country. We have also seen this in the past, by the fact that the European Union is going to override the Norwegian Financial Supervisory Authority, and there are proposals for it to go further. The centre party is responsible for a different development, a different course, where Norwegian politicians are supposed to control the development of society and ensure that we take control back to the Norwegian big business. The centre party has a clear priority of Norwegian interests and jobs. We want to facilitate greater activity throughout Norway, through targeted actions, including: improved depreciation schemes for enterprises, reduced valuation of operating resources in property taxes and increased seafarer’s deductions, fishing deductions and agricultural deductions. And we have a clear and clear charging policy, which is at a lower level than government policy – 1 billion. DKr below. It is reassuring that there are once again proposals for tax increases in the budget agreement. In the past, Norwegian domestic air transport has received strong tax reinforcements, travel life has had strong tax reinforcements and the food industry has received a strong tax tightening. So this year it's the taxi industry that gets dizzy. This is not a predictable policy, nor is it economical. That is why a new course is needed. In the next year’s budget, one sees that the consequence of the new regime for foreign workers adopted in the revised national budget is a subsidy of over 100 million foreign workers. kr. Thus, unlike Norwegian workers, foreign workers are allowed to choose the type of tax scheme to which they are subject, and then they can choose the one that is most favourable to themselves. This is not to facilitate Norwegian workers. Thus, in some of the professions that are most under pressure today — which have already experienced a cut in commuting deductions, people living on set-aside, an increase in taxes for seafarers — there is now a further subsidisation of foreign workers in this draft budget, based on the proceeds calculations. It's the Center Party against it. We want a policy for Norwegian workers, Norwegian companies, and we want to see all of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e2136	Some of the best with Norway are small differences and strong communities. We have built this country for the many, not just for the few. Ordinary people have organized themselves to secure a fair share of the value creation we do together, we have fought for health, knowledge and security for all through the welfare community. The small differences have given us great confidence between people and made the road short from the plumber's son's door to the lawyer's daughter's door. It's one of the most beautiful things about Norway. But this strong community is threatened. Differences in power and wealth are increasing. The right-wing government is correcting the economic policy of the few, at the expense of the many. Overall, it is cut from the children’s supplement for disability through the care allowance scheme to an increase in health care benefits – non-social cuts that hit them with the least and the sick hard. At the same time, the government organizes tax fixing for the economic elite with tax cuts for those who make over 10 million. kr, which is 100 times larger than those of the low pay. The result of this reverse Robin Hood distribution policy is that under the government of Solberg we have received 108 billionaires, while at the same time we have had over 100,000 children growing up in poor families. The growing child poverty is perhaps the worst consequence of the growing differences between people – 100,000 children who get worse opportunities in their childhood than other children, children who are left in the room when their friends go to football or dance, because their parents can't afford it. In Norway anno 2018, one in ten children are growing into poverty. But Norway anno 2018 is not poorer as a society than it has been before — on the contrary. We have enough wealth in this country to ensure a safe and healthy growth for all children. That's why it's so bloody unfair, that's why it's about distribution. The big money goes to them with already big wallets instead of going to the little ones. The right-wing government doesn't even think of child poverty as a distribution problem. This is why such an unsocial economic policy is being pursued, and so the government's so-called efforts to combat child poverty have failed. Child poverty has increased from 8.6 pst. in 2013 to over 10 pst. Now. In the government's proposal for a government budget, the proposed tax cut is four times greater than the so-called effort to combat child poverty. In addition, government policy against child poverty is characterised by needs testing and special arrangements. Disadvantaged families have to apply, come and ask – ask for a reduced price in kindergarten, ask for free holiday arrangements and document how poor they are. Many won't do it at all, they don't use such arrangements. It can quickly act both as stigmatizing and as a trap of poverty. Therefore, rather, SV fights for the universal solutions, the arrangements for all, where children can meet across the background, and where no one has to pray. That is why SV has fought hard – almost alone – to increase child-rearing lately and have put child-rearing on the agenda as an important solution. It's been silent for 20 years. That is why we are very pleased that the long battle has finally taken place, and that the Christian People's Party has negotiated an increase in the budgetary agreement. Unfortunately, Kjell Ingolf Roppstad has forgotten to do this in the right order, for almost 50,000 children – perhaps those who need it the most – are kept out of this increase and the child’s fear in general. It is the 50,000 children who grow up in families receiving social assistance in municipalities that count child welfare as income. So the money doesn't come to those who might need it the most. Only in my home state, Eastfold, the municipalities take 53 million. kr from the poorest families in this way. For this reason, SV is promoting a proposal today to amend the law in order to make it quite clear that child welfare is not to be regarded as income when measuring social assistance, as is stated in the law, for example. the summer jobs of children shall not be counted as income on measurement. We need to get a strong increase in child welfare, and we need to make sure that it comes to everyone, including those who need it the most. That's just how we can create a society for the many and not just for the few.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e2153	The Labour Party wants Norway to continue to have one of the best public welfare services in the world, providing security for everyone and ensuring equal opportunities. Hence, work for all jobs is one. Our goal is secure and regular jobs, stronger communities and small differences between people. This is followed up in our alternative budget – with a necessary tax policy, with measures for those who need it the most, and measures to create more, so that the cake gets bigger. Increased support for families with children is positive for the Workers' Party, but it is important to use the funds to make the best possible use of them to reduce child poverty. For example, proposed increases in child welfare will be able to be coordinated for those receiving social assistance. This means that 50,000 of those who already have the absolute least of them may not be allowed to participate in this increase. For this reason, the Labour Party uses the same resources on lower kindergarten prices, scholastic food, support for children’s leisure activities and extended free dental treatment for young people. The NHO West and Rogaland pointed out this with decreasing confidence as one of the main challenges in Norway today at a meeting we had last week. Small differences and high trust are consistent. Increasing the differences, trust falls. The 1,000 richest have got 1.3 billion. kr in property tax code. Half of the population has not received a red ear in the wealth tax code. Is that fair? No, no, no. Does that increase the difference? Yes. The government's policy weakens the community and increases differences, which makes trust fall. There are still more than 100,000 unemployed, and more people are not allowed access to the labour market. It's serious for the individual, for the family and for the community. The most important economic divider in Norway is just between those who have a job and those who don't have a job. In order to create future-oriented jobs throughout the country, a general and neutral industrial policy must be replaced by an active and targeted industrial policy, as the Labour Party also does in this alternative budget. But even though it seems that the Christian People's Party has a beard to the Labour Party's budget when they negotiated, the starting point was far too wrong. Few measures were disappointing to get people to work, and the tax profile should certainly have been much more necessary. The 1.5-degree report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change gave a serious warning that the world needs to act faster and more vigorously in order to avoid catastrophic changes. Global emissions must almost be halved by 2030. For my Labour Party, climate policy must be a framework of all our policies. To this end, we will strengthen Enova, in order to contribute to green conversion in the industrial and maritime sectors and to build charging infrastructure in the districts. Therefore, we will establish a CO 2 fund for industrial transport. Therefore, we will strengthen the work of preventing flooding and slipping. High levels of participation in the labour market and a fair and distortive tax system help to maintain the income of the community. At the same time, it reduces the differences between people, and it strengthens the community. Those who are some of the most important in politics should not vote for any government party, but for a party that actually pursues a policy that builds up under the big tasks: working for everyone, strengthening the community and halting climate change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e2173	We can rejoice that things are going well in the Norwegian economy. We are in the midst of an upturn in economic growth, partly very low unemployment across the country and a marked increase in employment. There is optimism and belief in the future of enterprises: high investment levels and high labour demand in many sectors. In parts of the country, as in some district municipalities in Trøndelag, the holiday of the harvest has actually been quite down to 1 pst. and lower. It is also very gratifying that the proportion of the population in employment is rising after several years with the opposite trend, because the greatest differences are between those in employment and those outside. The growth of the mainland economy appears to be greater than the growth of the trend. It is a joyous development that we need to support and strengthen in the future, for in the long term, the growth capacity of the mainland economy is crucial for the welfare development of Norway. When the arrows are so clearly pointing in the right direction, it is important that we pursue the policy that works. We need to use the good times well – to ensure sustainability for well-being and safer Norway and to prepare ourselves for the challenges we know we have ahead of us, because the transition is not over. We got strengthened out of the oil price drop, but the crisis gave us a serious reminder of how vulnerable we are to an oil-powered economy, and how important it is to ensure the conversion power, so that the Norwegian economy can get more legs to stand on. First of all, it means that we want to need more jobs in private companies, more jobs that contribute to the state budget, not that of the state budget. Creating jobs through public money use, as the Labour Party will, can function in a crisis situation, such as under the oil price shock, when the objective is to keep employment up. But it's not sustainable in length, and it's also not right medicine in a boom that's now. With an emerging economy, it is important to pursue a responsible economic policy and give less gas to monetary policy. We must prevent the heating up of the Norwegian economy, screen the crown price and prevent unwanted interest increases. It is important for household finances, but it is particularly important to ensure the competitiveness of the export industries. Therefore, the budget has a moderate use of oil money, in line with the growth of the mainland economy, which thus has a neutral impact on economic activity. The importance of these measures is reinforced by the fact that the OECD is now reporting uncertainties related to the development of our trading partners: the consequences of brexit, increased trends in protectionism and the risk of financial market turmoil. Increased customs barriers and barriers to trade will present challenges for Norway with our open economy. A good budget is about spending money properly and prioritizing, making investments now that increase value creation in the long term. Therefore, it is positive that the budgetary unit with the Christian People's Party ensures that we can continue to reduce the tax burden on Norwegian companies and Norwegian ownership. In order to continue to pay off investing in Norwegian jobs, we are further reducing company taxes, while reducing the tax on working capital in enterprises. Our most important investments, on the other hand, are in knowledge, competence, research and innovation. When we spend almost 10 billion. It is because we believe that this is both a good business policy and a good climate policy that stimulates the use of energy- and climate-friendly technologies. We continue to invest in new and more efficient transport solutions to connect the parts of the country more closely. Not least, I would like to say that it is positive that the framework for broadband in the districts has increased. I would also like to highlight the positive fact that the economy of families with children is strengthened by the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party, that freedom of choice is increasing, and that the economy of the minimum pensioners is improving. We are in a very exciting period of Norwegian politics. Budgetary negotiations have promoted the processes that are in progress, marked by a good tone and willingness to succeed, which in turn has made good compromises possible. The budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party set out a course that responds to the challenges of the Norwegian economy, promotes conversion and contributes to continued growth and more jobs. We use good times well, and we secure Norway for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e2203	Once again, citizens and businesses in this country will have a budget that will make everyday life easier and even better. For the Progress Party and our voters, we continue what has been most important, and which will also be most important in the future: the ability to succeed, the ability to choose and the ability to create and retain more of our own income. In the next year's budget, the Progress Party has achieved a positive impact on what is the first step in reducing the ability of municipalities to tax people's homes. It's a clear signal to most people that the Progress Party is on their side in the fight to say that a home is a home, not a tax item. But perhaps most importantly, the signal we give to Norwegian municipalities and local politicians: a dwelling is built to live in, not to be a place for local politicians to pick up money they are not entitled to. We demand most people that they use no more than they can afford. The same requirement also applies to politicians. Norwegian municipalities that want more income must facilitate the establishment of more enterprises in the municipality and provide good services, which will increase their population. You can't sneak at people's homes bit by bit. Let me be very clear on the goal of the Advance Party: the property tax is to go down, step by step, until it is removed for good. In addition to the work of removing property taxes, the government continues its efforts to ensure more for transport, not only because good roads are cool – they are, of course, as far as it goes – but also because investing in transport is an absolutely necessary investment to allow people to live where they want to. Of course, this is true where people live closely, but perhaps most importantly where distances are greater, where people have no choice but to use a car. Mora and Romsdal, where I come from, are one of our many productive counties, and we make sure every year that people all over the country – and all over the world – share in what we create. We live on fish, we live on oil, we produce ships, we produce furniture, we produce aluminum. Yes, even Christmas balls, we are able to produce in competition with China – of course because we are good, innovative and use new technology, but above all because we have a government that takes seriously that we need to get products out to the market, both at home and outside the world, by focusing on one of the most important things we can bet on, namely the road. Fish in all variants, sold all over the world, come from us. Norway's most eaten pizza is produced in More and Romesdal. It also does some of the best bacon you can get. The world's purest farmed salmon, which is also the raw material for what is named the world's best salmon – in so far as also the most expensive – comes from More and Romsdal. Soil, air and water go hand in hand with creativity and innovation, and it becomes products we sell to all of Norway and the world – and the transport there is going on a great deal. So thanks to the government for providing a necessary repair of our export route, E136, from Sunnmøre and the Roms Valley, which links Moor and Romsdal with the E6 and the rest of the country, and for the necessary upgrading of Rv. 70, from Kristiansund and Nordmøre, which we are doing well, and which never became anything but talk from the red-green. With this budget, there is also a start to the billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion. We produce from what nature gives us, but we are also dependent on good roads – not only in Mora and Romesdal, but throughout the country. The best regional development we can have is to provide good and safe roads. And the biggest bet on the road ever is this government that has stood by. No other government has invested so much to make it possible to live and live in the districts as exactly this government. I can say that, because I'm from the district. When business continues to invest in districts like More and Romesdal, they do so because they have faith in the future, because they have faith in those who live there, and because they have faith that the country will keep government and government policies to bet on more good and safe roads, which are a prerequisite for creating values and jobs in the countryside and cities for many, many years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e2228	I need to talk about North Norway. In the Central Party's alternative state budget for 2019, we are taking a number of steps to strengthen one of Norway's most important parts of the country for both people and business. Defence is important for Norway and North Norway. Therefore, in its alternative budget, the central party gives much more to the defense than the current government does, and is the party that grants the most money in defence. Bn. 1,3 kr more priority is given to the Centre Party in its alternative state budget. There are at least nine helicopters on Bardufoss, 2nd Battalion on Skjold, investments in tanks, the Defence Music Corps in Harstad and a reinforcement of the Home Guard. The government, with the support of the Workers' Party, filed a defense settlement one year ago that threatened both the 2nd Battalion and the helicopters at Bardufoss once again. Now I hope we get a clear policy that helps secure Bardufoss and Skjold. There is no doubt that this harvest is absolutely crucial for the defence in the north. This is obviously a government that doesn't care much about our three northernmost states. Among other things, we do. in the very arrogant attitude to the resistance to the coercion of Troms and Finnmark. In addition, the government does not show any willingness to invest in the Nordic county councils either in the field of industrial development or in rural road investment. The criteria for the distribution of grants were amended in 2015 for the counties and in 2017 for the municipalities. The change led to large redistributions particularly affecting the districts and smaller and medium-sized municipalities. In particular, it has affected the Nordic counties and municipalities. With the budget of the Central Party, for example, we are increasing regional development funds for the Nordic states by 163 million. NOK, and we have an increase for county roads of SEK 283 million. kr. In North Norway, our planes are buses and railways. This means that the short-haul network and the flight offer are crucial for people. It's about the distances in the north being large, and people depend on planes both in the job context and not least to fly to and from necessary health services. In order to save the short-haul network and the flight offer throughout Norway, the Central Party proposes in its State budget to remove the passenger charge for all aeroplanes on the short-haul network and to reduce ticket prices on domestic flights. It is absurd today that a weekend trip to New York is cheaper than, for example, one. a flight within Finnmark. The centre party is fighting for people to live good lives all over Norway. Then, of course, we must also be able to get across Norway. In our long-term country, it is essential that we take care of the short-haul network and not weaken the flight offer. The right hand and the Advance Party's air passenger fee will have major consequences if the government does not listen to the warnings against this centralisation policy. People all over Norway tell me how important the flight offer is to them and their jobs. It has already been cut down on the flight routes for example. The Lofoten and the Vesterål. If the government maintains the air passenger charge for aeroplanes in the short-haul network, the long-term consequences will be job losses and relocation over large parts of Norway. The Central Party also proposes to increase the allocations for the State-aided air routes by 20 million. kr. Through, inter alia: historically high increases in fuel tax and electricity tax and commuter deduction cuts have made the Right and Advance Party more expensive and difficult for those living outside Ring 3. The centre party will take full use of Norway and make it cheaper and easier to live outside the largest cities in Norway. That's why we're increasing the appropriations for the short-distance network, so that we can lower the ticket prices and improve the route offer. The centre party is betting on North Norway and wants scattered settlement throughout Norway. That's why we want to make it easier for you to live where you want to and have the same possibilities. We are therefore also proposing to increase the special deduction for Troms and Finnmark to NOK 20 000 and to reintroduce the Finnmarks and Svalbard supplement of NOK 2 400 into the child's pension. Northern Norway is the part of the country of opportunity. To take advantage of that, we need parties that are betting on North Norway, and that's why I'm very proud that the Central Party is doing and showing it in its alternative state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e2249	The proposal of the Labour Party for a budget has a clear objective with its facilities: to create stronger communities throughout the country – because equal opportunities are important for all to create a good life, and because a good opportunity for schooling and good health gives many opportunities for a good life and participation in the labour market. Long before we found oil in Norway, we could afford sick pay, we had set up the State Loan Fund for Education, we had an old-age and disability pension. We can afford that because we have had a high level of participation in the world of work. Many have helped to create our prosperity. Strong communities provide good productivity in business, we must believe the OECD. They stress that small differences result in increased productivity in business. In Norway today, one in ten children live in families with persistent poor finances. They can get a better basis for learning at school by ensuring a school meal in our draft budget for next year. Unfortunately, we don't get a majority for that in 2019, so it's exciting to see which country in Europe will be the last to introduce school food. Will it be Norway, will it become Denmark, or will it become Albania? Our priorities include: school food in front of an increase in child benefit of SEK 83 per month. We believe that doing something about school food is more focused. We're also going to spend 400 million. more focused on better dental health for young people. We don't increase the kindergarten price by the five-step method of government and conciliation. A community health service with an equivalent offer throughout the country, where you get the same good offer regardless of your wallet, is important. So we're going to spend $1,600 million. more on the treatment of patients in the specialist health service than the budgetary conciliation does. We're betting on the tenets, because many people get their most important health care there. We ensure a municipal economy that will prevent the reconciliation with the government: the worst framework for the municipalities since Solberg was the municipal minister in 2005. Our elderly care and most of our well-being are created in the municipalities, and they must have a sound framework. We want to facilitate good business development. We know that the business community is giving feedback that the right skills are important, and we're betting 3.6 billion. more in our alternative budget to build skills for the future. Increasingly, job empowerment is increased through continuing training, while changing society more rapidly. This is why the Workers' Party has set up 3 000 new places of study. The government proposed zero new places of study in 2019, and through the agreement we received 195, most of them at private colleges. The Labour Party wants 3,000 new places to study. We also fund 2,000 more job vacancies and workers in need of specific organisation. We're creating a fund for boosting business skills. We'll bet on professional subjects and colleges. In my county, Northern Ireland, there is a great need for professional skills in the business community, as well as for teachers, nurses and health professionals. Many of those in these professions, usually women, dream of a full job and a regular job. We also prioritise money for it in our central budget and work for full time – as we prioritise it in the municipalities that we govern. In order to strengthen the community, we need to tackle what most people are concerned about, and do something about the challenges they see. Therefore, the Labour Party is doing more to limit climate change in its budget and rate 3 billion. kr more. Among other things, we are going to research and develop the technologies that can save us emissions in the future. It is important to set in motion a CO 2 fund for business that can ensure that we apply new technologies also outside the quota sector. Cars and heavy goods vehicles need a technology promise to speed up their emission-free approach. That's good climate policy, and that's good business policy. Then I hear that the right parties repeat in this debate that it will be more expensive to work with the Labour Party budget. That's not true at all. Anyone who earns less than NOK 750,000 will receive a lower tax with the Workers' Party's alternative. We redistribute to a greater extent than the government does.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e2274	The government's proposal for the 2019 government budget is a budget well adapted to the Norwegian economy and the transition we are now in the process of. The years we've spent behind us have shown us how vulnerable we are to fluctuations in the oil price. At the same time, government policies along with the social partners and moderate wage-fixing have led to an increase in the economy and a fall in unemployment. It has been interesting to be in the debate on unemployment in Norway. When the leave was high, there was loud criticism to get from the left, with the Workers' Party at the top. Now that unemployment goes down, this is far from the government's profit. I agree that moderate settlement between the parties has been important, but it must also be allowed to point out that the strong efforts made by this government have been of great importance. For the growth we see now, not only does the fall in oil-related industries start to be covered by new jobs, but there is a trend in all parts of the country and in all industries. So we don't just see this in the South and West, where oil and gas industries dominate most, also in inland states and in North Norway, we see the same trend. That's good. I believe that our most important task as politicians is not to stand in the way of those who want to create something, making it as easy as possible for those who want to start a business, making arrangements that support those who are willing to take risks, and making sure that the paper mill is as small as possible. Here, the left-hand side of this hall has a lot to learn. Taking the company's money and sending it to Oslo to distribute it again to what you think is too good, that's standing in the way. The prohibition of all private actors who want to contribute to the welfare society is to stand in the way of new solutions and innovation. Laying down New Roads is not just standing in the way, it's even standing in the way that new roads are actually being built. Furthermore, increasing bureaucracy, removing trade access to Europe, making it more expensive to own and operate machinery or to have a chain in stock, that is standing in the way. There is one party today that lies on a line that has not been notified before the election or referred to as a policy they should pursue, and that is the Workers' Party. The Labour Party has, on the contrary, entered into this budget to do something they have not spoken about in recent years, which is at least contrary to what can be read on their websites, and that is to increase the wealth tax at the level they are now proposing. It is quite correct, as it is said, that the overall level of taxation is not increased beyond 2013 with the Labour Party’s arrangements. They have only increased the taxes and charges by 10–11 of 25 billion. kr that this government has cut with next year's budget. But in the case of property taxes, the tax on Norwegian-owned enterprises, where they are increasing, by introducing a new step for all assets above 5 million. kr and reverse our proposal to continue to cut taxes on working capital. This makes it worse to be a business owner in Norway — unless you are a foreigner, of course. Along the coast, shipyards have faced a huge challenge after the oil price drop a few years ago. It has been necessary to convert to new markets in order to maintain their jobs. Local business owners have bled out almost all equity. They have restructured and merged companies, had debt negotiations to survive. Instead of selling the company and the life agency, instead of moving ownership abroad and dropping property taxes, instead of cancelling employees or removing local belongings, they choose to do everything they can to remain in Norway. And then what's the thank you from the Workers' Party? Well, the thanks are that you have to pay more. When the leading trustee in the Brunvoll enterprise in Molde says that the property tax is harmful to the company, to his own job and to his colleagues' jobs, it shows what the property tax is really about. This is about Norwegian-owned local companies with company owners who want to contribute to the local football team, support school trips and hire people with holes in the CV, because they feel related. A foreign owner will probably not always feel the same, perhaps not always feeling the same extra responsibility for hiring those young people in the countryside who may not fit into the usual school run. When we lower the tax on Norwegian jobs, it's because we think it's actually better for ordinary people and businesses to keep more of their own money than for us to collect them and distribute them again from here. It is by creating jobs that the tax finances our welfare society, and that is what we have to fend for.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e2291	The finance minister spoke in the financial speech on 8 October about the sun shining. But in Stavanger we could experience quite quickly that there is still a fog of election campaign rhetoric from Youngstorget, because the Workers' Party was quick out in the locals and said that for the business community in Rogaland there are dark clouds and far from the sun. Before the weekend, Vice-Chancellor Knudsen in SR-Bank was able to report on huge job growth in Rogaland, with 14,000 new jobs since 2017 and an unemployment rate of 2.4 p.m. in November, the lowest since 2010. A further 5,000 new jobs are expected next year. The dark clouds in Rogaland must be above the Labour Party electoral facilities, because there is good reason to rejoice at developments both in Rogaland and in the country, which shows that the policy we are pursuing is right: to invest in both infrastructure and reduced taxes on business. But there are still challenges. The NHO states that six out of ten enterprises will need more skilled workers in the future and that they already lose commitments to tender due to lack of competence. The SSB estimates that we will need almost 100,000 new trade union workers over the next 20 years. Then we have two alternatives: either to import the labour force or to train it yourself. We want to educate it ourselves. This is why the professional profession is so important. Since 2013, we've spent almost 700 million. kr in the professions. We have increased the apprenticeship grant by a total of NOK 21 000 per contract, and we have requested the use of apprentices in public and public tenders. The results are that we are now seeing a record increase in the number of applicants for a professional course, the absence is reduced, the decline is decreasing, and it seems that for the third consecutive year, there will be more apprentices, and that we will again crush the record from 2017. We will continue to bet on careers this year that comes, because we need not only people who work in dress, but also people who work in dress. The Progress Party will strengthen the practical professions and facilitate the teaching of a number of professional groups at school. We need people who have had a hammer in their hands for thousands of hours of work, or who have made car this year after year to provide students with even better education in the subject they have chosen. No matter what problem the opposition has to solve, the answer is always increased taxes and taxes and more countries. The Progress Party knows that we can solve societal challenges without reducing freedom or taking more of people's money. That is the very foundation of our political project, but we note that all of today's opposition parties are increasing taxes and taxes. The 2019 budget allocates a great deal of money to investments in infrastructure, research and knowledge. It will reduce the transport costs of business, increase innovation and innovation and increase the skills of the population. These are investments for continued growth and prosperity. Good business framework conditions, cut-offs in the form field and a good education and research sector are the cornerstones of the welfare society and a prerequisite for job security and value creation. Tax has been a topic of debate today. I just want to remind you that in 2019, an average family of children will pay NOK 11 000 less in taxes than if we had continued the red-green tax egg from 2013. In total, the average family has been reduced by several tens of thousands of dollars over these five years. The Progress Party will continue to work for smaller taxes for people most of the year coming, because we believe it strengthens the private well-being of families to keep more of their own money and to decide for themselves what to spend on. Let me conclude by saying that the Progress Party believes that the oil sector will continue to give us huge revenues for decades to come. Nevertheless, the future is uncertain. It's going to be less money to distribute to us politicians. Sponsoring middle class electric bicycles, as the red-greens in Oslo have done, is an example of what politicians have to end with. We can no longer expect to spend hundreds of millions – not to say billions – on symbolic items, public consumption and inefficient structures. We have to increase the value creation. Then we have to improve the framework conditions for real values. We need to lower taxes and taxes. We have to keep up the historical commitment to transport. We must provide incentives for value-generating investments in research and business. That's what this government has been working on for five years, and we're going to continue with that, with the budget that is being adopted today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e2310	The municipalities are the bearer of the rule of the people and the welfare society. Most inhabitants of Norway use municipal and county welfare services every day. Children attend kindergarten and school, young people take secondary education, new parents are in the health centre and receive advice and guidance, older people who need a nursing home, receive it, or receive care at home. Unfortunately, the situation today is that too often youths encounter closed doors in the school health service. Too many municipalities have to recruit unskilled teachers, and too many older people are lonely in their everyday lives. We still need more kindergartens, we need new schools, and we need time-consuming nursing homes. This is why the Labour Party has strengthened the local economy and wanted to invest in schools, safer care for the elderly and good health care for all, prior to giving priority to large tax cuts for those who have the most in the past. The claim made today that the local economy is better than ever, and that the impression that this is the government's profit is a picture that can be easily corrected. It is true that there are many municipalities that have made profits or that have not been able to spend the money in the last few years because they have received extraordinary one-off incomes, among other things. as a result of tax adjustments to the tax reform. That gives good economic results. We're happy about that, but it's not because of the government, because this wasn't income that the government was able to predict. And here we are at the heart of the problem: the people elected in the municipalities who are responsible for the welfare services, whether it's kindergarten, recruiting teachers or getting their way, can't plan for activity with the money you don't know will come. If we base the government's draft budget, the 2019 government budget, the government is adding to a very low growth in the free income of the municipal sector, a real growth of only 0.7 pst. according to the government's own figures. It is too small when municipalities have large unsolved tasks in key welfare areas. I heard the State Council of Malta on the interlocutory earlier today, which boasted of how well and balanced the arrangement for the municipal sector is. I disagree. In the change of lines, I challenged the government councils on how a real decline in free income, when you see 2018 and 2019 in the context, can be so good for the sector and the unresolved tasks you face in the municipalities. Then I was told that the calculation I had to go through one more time. I've done that, and it's still the same thing. On question No. 34 from the Workers' Party's fraction, which reads: «What is, given to the government's proposal for the government budget for 2019, on average, annual real-time job-corrected growth in the municipal sector and the free income of municipalities and counties for the period 2018–2019?» corresponds to the Council of State – I am not going to read the full answer, but the essence is: Total growth in free income in the municipal sector is estimated at minus 0,2 pst. average over those years. It is not a strengthening of the municipal economy. It's a decline according to the government's own figures. In the Workers' Party, we have more ambitions than the government for better quality in well-being, care and schooling in municipalities. Therefore, we have prioritised and believe that there is a need for a sharp increase in the growth in the income of municipalities and counties. So, in our alternative budget, we've spent 3.5 billion. in addition to the Government's proposals. With our approach, we would have strengthened the community, we would have given the municipalities the opportunity to invest in more kindergartens, to strengthen the quality of kindergartens, to provide more teachers and early schooling, to strengthen care for the elderly or to focus on preventive health work among children and young people, if that is what is needed in the municipality. With our approach, county councils would be able to renew and upgrade the county road network, provide a better offer in the field of public transport, strengthen secondary education with a focus on the professions or play the role of regional development operator in a better way. For us, it is a priority to strengthen the community over tax cuts for those who already have the most, because we believe that the community is the most important.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e2328	Growth in Norway is good and optimistic. The vacancy is falling and has not been lower in ten years. More people come to work, both in the number and proportion of the population, and new jobs are created. Only in Rogaland have we created more than 14,000 new ones since last year, and the Stavanger region is now converting almost as much as the entire last year's state budget. While progress is good, we're not going to take anything for granted. We have to work every day to create more jobs, because that's what it's all about: jobs that provide the basis for a safe and sustainable welfare society, jobs that give us the opportunity to create a warmer society with opportunities for everyone. We need more jobs that contribute to the state budget rather than to living from it, so the government and the Christian People's Party are betting on entrepreneurs, value creation and inclusion in the working life. We're lowering the extraordinary criminal tax on Norwegian ownership, property tax, and we're betting on knowledge, transport and innovation. In this debate, the opposition has promised to spend more money on most things, but very rarely do they mention where the money comes from. So let's dry it out loud: although many industries are important, the oil is the largest. The NRK series Lyckeland brings us to the Norwegian oil adventure and wealth growth, and it should be a reminder to all of us. The government is concerned with the predictability of the industry, but also with imposing stringent climate requirements on it. The AP comrades MDG, Red and SV go in on their side to throw it at the door. At the same time, when they promise more money for the most part, it gives cause for concern. The proposal to solve all the country's problems in sending businesses a tax return of tens of billions will at least not create any more jobs. We can't control a country like that, the math doesn't go up. Fortunately, we are taking a safe course with Erna Solberg as Prime Minister. While we are going to have predictability for business, we have to take responsibility for the climate. It is good that the production of Norwegian oil and gas is among the cleanest in the world. Even better is the fact that our natural gas is competing for dirty coal power and is cutting large emissions in Europe. Only in the United Kingdom did we contribute in 2016 to reducing emissions by 25 million. tonnes of CO 2, more than half of the total Norwegian emissions. Emissions in Norway are also decreasing. At the same time, we cannot be complacent and satisfied with it. We're going to bring down emissions far more, both from production and using the money we earn, wisely, on renewable energy and on new technology. That is why the government is presenting an offensive budget for climate. In our time, we have doubled the investment in climate technology, including: through Enova. We're researching more, we're strengthening Innovation Norway, and we've created the renewable Nysnø. Therefore, it is also very good for the climate when many of the companies take responsibility. New technology and digitisation significantly reduce the carbon footprint of the Norwegian base, and money and expertise from the oil are used to invest in new industries. For example, Equinor now has exciting bets going on within the sun and offshore wind. The government will play a team to build bridges for a more renewable future and more green jobs. We are better off than ever to achieve the climate goals. What the country needs is not more symbolism policy, but responsible governance for better and safer jobs and better climate. We'll have that with Erna Solberg as Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e2352	I'm also going to say a few words about responsible governance, but with responsible governance in the 21st century, you can't help but assume that we know a lot about how bad it's going to be on earth if we don't take the climate much more seriously. The previous speaker, Mr Stokkebø, said we should not be self-satisfied. I think that's wise, because there's no reason to be it when we also know from the state budget that we're far behind the goals that the Storting together – all parties except the Advance Party – set out for 2020, which we're not going to achieve as it looks. It's almost unimaginable that we can do it. So we know that the Earth is already warmed up at least 1 degree due to human activity. We are on our way to 1.5 degrees, and the new report from the United Nations Panel on Climate Change, which so many speakers have pointed out, came the same day as the state budget was presented, shows that there are already going to be very serious things about the human life base. We're probably going to have very large numbers of refugees, we're going to undermine the basis of food production in many places on earth, etc. Two degrees is even worse. So we know a lot about where this is going. We also know more and more about how to avoid it. Therefore, it is so important that we set ourselves very clear and verifiable targets, and that we think through any decision also in the light of what it means for the climate and emissions budget. We had expected that in this budget from the government there would be an overview of the climate emissions and the impact of the measures presented in the State budget on future emissions. In the absence of this, the Labour Party has created its own climate emissions budget, which shows that it is possible to achieve our own objectives by 2030. It is based on the calculation of the Directorate-General for the Environment, and we link it to the concrete proposals we are making. We strongly hope that the government at the next crossroads, i.e. at the next budget, will do the same and present an emission budget where we can document how concrete measures are linked to concrete cuts in emissions. Today we are discussing the state budget, and it is a very large state budget on an international scale per capita. We're talking about income and expenditure and how much we're going to have – as we're going to, as we hear and as we should. Most of those who have been on such occasions before know that what you don't get through for this year, you might be able to get through for next year because there's going to be new government budgets. This is not the case with the carbon budget or with the emissions budget. We know exactly how much we have left. If we're going to stop heating at 2 degrees, we have from pre-industrial time until we become carbon-neutral possibilities to get out of total 2,900 gigatons in the world. We've already released 2,100 gigatons. That means there's 800 gigatons left. With today's consumption it's 20 years, because it's 40 gigatons per year worldwide. 20 years – and then it's over. So that's for the 2 percent. But if we're going to take over the 1.5 degree point, the number has to be reduced to a place between 150 and 400. The researchers are discussing how much it is, but there are so many fewer years. That's why I think it's absolutely essential that we have two equally important budgets from now on and in all budgets until we have a climate-neutral planet: one budget based on financial resources, that is, how we spend the money, and one budget for how we spend the remaining emissions. For every tonne of emissions we use now, we take a tonne from next generations. This sounds dramatic, but it's the generations that live today, that decide whether the globe should be sustainable in 50 to 100 years, and whether the next generations will have a chance, or whether to create a completely uninhabitable planet. My call will be that we can agree that we should introduce a principle of such emission budgeting, and that we realize that we have a special responsibility, for there are hardly any countries in the world that have earned so much per capita to contribute to the world's CO 2 emissions. Then we have a special responsibility to go ahead and set clear goals for how much we should cut here at home. We're going to participate in obliging international cooperation, but we're not going to buy ourselves free from taking the cuts we can take here at home, and to that we need such a budget. If, as Mr Gahr Støre said, we do not support the motion of censure by the Greens, it is not because we do not share their concern about the situation, but because we believe it is a wrong instrument in today's situation. We'd rather work with the government to figure out ways to solve this through an emissions budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e2376	With the Right in Government, we build the welfare society of the future. Employment goes up, and jobs are created. Only in the last year was 56 000 new jobs created, 26 000 more than the Workers' Party thought they would create a year if they won the election last year. In the north, we might have an even better picture than in the rest of the country, because we didn't "cheap" from the period around the oil price drop. Travel has been record-keeping for four years, farming has never improved, and industrial investment has been the highest since the financial crisis. The Nordic countries and North Norway provide without doubt the most important for Norway: value creation, which provides the basis for continued good welfare services. And when we also have a government that says yes to using resources, the basis for further growth is laid. It's now great to travel through Northern Ireland and see what's happened in the last few years. We have a government that is betting on the construction of transport, and that is strong in North Norway, and it is well displayed in the part of the country. Now E6 Helgeland from Salt Mountain in the north to Mayavatn in the south is approaching completion. On Sunday, the Hålogaland Bridge shall be officially opened by the Prime Minister. The Hålogaland road is the next major road project. In the current national transport plan, the government has agreed to build two new airports – both located in Northern Ireland. On the right hand side of the government, the part of the country connects more closely, and we provide safe and fast transport of goods and people. Travel life in the north is also in positive growth, although there are internal differences. Activities and offers are built up that provide a basis for full-year activity with a wide range of experiences, food and accommodation. Only in the “Wågan” are plans for the construction of larger or smaller overnight offers with a growth of approx. 1500 beds. The new oil protection and environmental centre to which the government has granted money in Lofoten is well under way and will have its official opening next Monday. There's a lot of exciting new activity going on around Andeya Space Center. The government has granted responsible loans there for the further work and planning of the launch base for small satellites. This could provide hundreds of new jobs in Andøya and the Western Channel. Investments are being made for several hundred million in new boats and new farms within fisheries and farming. This is done by business owners who have faith in the future. The last thing I think these and other business owners want is the Workers' Party and the Left's promises of large tax increases, or the last frightening development in the North – a Workers' Party that says no to traditional aquaculture, or no to knowledge acquisition. When Norway made a record in exports of seafood in 2017, with nearly 95 billion. kr, came a lot of this seafood from the north Norwegian activity. This is an activity that we'll see in the future, as the government wants to facilitate sustainable growth in the aquaculture industry. But then there is no need for another political majority to be able to rock by perhaps the most important factor in the success of business in the north, namely the EEA Agreement. 83 pst. exports in 2017 from Nordland went to the EEA territory. The government and the prime minister's commitment to the clean seas are also important for the activity in the north, as most of the activity here takes place in and out of the sea. What happens to marine pollution at global level is shown in the north. For this reason, it is also important that the government has increased its effort against marine pollution to 400 million. kr in 2019. This money will go to waste management in developing countries, so that the waste does not find its way to the sea and goes with the flows northwards and paves our food barrels. For new opportunities in the north, it is also important that the government in this budget proposes 10 million. kr for mineral occurrence mapping. However, weak population development is the biggest challenge facing the Nordic countries. So the challenge is not a lack of opportunities, but a lack of people to fill the vacancies we have, whether it's on the fish farm, in the farm or as a teacher, nurse or engineer. Then the county needs future-optimists who speak up our part of the country and show all the possibilities that exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e2395	The centre party is pleased that in many areas the Norwegian economy is currently doing well. Unfortunately, the government does not use Norway’s unique economic space to see Norway as a whole, but on the contrary to pursue a policy that helps to increase social and geographical disparities. The Government's proposals for the 2019 government budget continue a budgetary policy that goes in the wrong direction in terms of sharing social goods and using Norway as a whole. The alternative budget of the Central Party contributes to a fairer distribution between different groups and not least between different parts of the country. The central party believes that Norwegian municipalities offer good services to their inhabitants, and there is no reason to claim that today's municipalities are too small. There is no broad support in the Stortinget for the need for the continuation of the municipal reform. The centre lot assumes that any aggregation shall be based solely on voluntary activity and determined locally, as the majority of the population has agreed to 7 December 2017. I quote: ‘The budget we present today enables municipalities to continue to strengthen important welfare services while reducing property taxes.’ Siv Jensen said this October 8th. The problem is that this is not true when we start looking at individual municipalities and individual municipalities. People live in all the municipalities and communities, where they have their kindergartens, their school and their health services. The figures for individual municipalities are quite different from those for the country as a whole. In fact, municipalities will reduce their economic space by several hundred million dollars in 2019 as a result of that 300 million. SEK shall be deducted from measures taken by the Ministry of Health and Welfare, 200 million. kr shall go to the escalating plan for the waste field, 100 mill. NOK 200 million for the escalation of rehabilitation. SEK for early school effort, 200 million. kr from the framework to designation under the budget agreement, so the municipalities lose 400 million. SEK property tax at reduced level and SEK 180 million. kr as an instrument of change in machine taxes in 2017. Then we have the serious challenge that the extra cost of demography and retirement in Norwegian municipalities is calculated to increase to 1.7 billion. kr. Then we see that $2.6 billion. kr in the framework of free revenues does not go into hops – the belt does not go around the entire budget. So this is much tighter than what the government promised in the municipal bill. I was known to shoot down the government's proposal early, because that arrangement was known through the municipal proposition. So with the budget agreement, it has become even worse than what I announced very early. The government proposes to increase the differences geographically and socially with its proposal, as it does not provide equal opportunities for all municipalities to provide services to the inhabitants. So the government won't even out. That's the opposite of what the Center Party adds to its alternative proposal. I know a lot of local politicians around the country. What's right on a general level, they don't know each other. Even well-run municipalities that are well above the average population think about how to achieve all the wishes of the government, while at the same time being able to develop the services they already provide. Let me take Nordland as an example. There, 14 municipalities received more than what is estimated price and cost growth, two stand on the ground resting, and the rest cannot cover the cost increase, even if we do not take into account efficiency improvement. For some municipalities, changes may be fair and reasonable, but for many of the 28 municipalities that lose out on the proposal, and that continue to do so after the budgetary conciliation, it is that you have to reduce the service provision to people. This will not give rise to the need for more people to live in the country and make use of all these possibilities. This is particularly true when it comes to fulfilling all the good intentions that the members of the government want to finance through the framework of Norwegian municipalities and counties, which they did not get through to get their own money from the Minister of Finance. There is relatively broad support for the framework funding through free revenues to Norwegian municipalities in this room. It shall provide local adaptation and effective and smart solutions adapted to everyday life out there — not at a macro level in the ministry or in the government communication department. The Central Party recognises the challenges and difficult decisions that many local politicians from all parties have to take in these days, when the next year's budget for the municipalities is to be created. We actually deliver on what we announced in the municipal bill, and more to – 3.9 billion. kr in the framework of Norwegian municipalities and counties will provide the basis for equivalent services and good municipal measures to the inhabitants, irrespective of their country-wide residence. Thus, through the budget, we are to prevent increased differences in Norway, both poor and rich and between towns and cities. That is what builds this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e2426	The working party addresses the major challenges of its alternative state budget. It is about work, about strengthening the community, and not least about halting climate change. Increased value creation and more jobs are the most important job. So we're betting on the sea as one of the possibilities for future value creation. We focus much more on industry, more on agriculture's ability to produce safe food, we focus more on start-ups, more on technology and technology development, we focus more on digitisation, we want a landscape of important technology areas such as artificial intelligence and autonomous systems, a landscape with the power to lift the many small and medium-sized enterprises in an increasingly digitised everyday life. We strengthen business through a significant investment in climate and future, with a CO 2 fund for industrial transport. We are strengthening Enova, who can once again strengthen his efforts towards industry. We are clear that we will give priority to carbon capture and storage, and we will focus considerably more on environmental technologies. We focus more on the community, because we believe safe people are more daring, and we believe good welfare schemes such as common school, kindergarten and health care are helping to make people more efficient and productive. The Workers' Party's alternative state budget is a clear priority for making use of the many possibilities, facilitating more secure jobs and, above all, increasing value creation. Fortunately, many are good in Norway, but self-satisfaction can mask challenges. Last spring, the NHO was out with a clear warning: we were building roads and housing, but not forward-looking jobs, said Øystein Dørum at the time, pointing out that the level of investment in the companies must be substantial. This year, LO's chief economist, Roger Bjørnstad, is out there warning us that we are vulnerable, and that resources are placed in property and low-productive jobs. I think it's valuable to listen to these warnings. It should be concerned that Norway falls to 16th place in the coup d'être of the world’s most competitive countries — seven places behind Sweden. It should also worry the government that differences in Norway are increasing. It also affects business. We need to ensure increased value creation and more jobs outside the oil and gas sector in the coming period. Norway is the country of opportunity. We're highly educated, we have a competent workforce, we have a low level of conflict, we're capitalised, and we're enriched with great natural resources. But unfortunately, the possibilities are not being exploited well enough. It has become that tax cuts to those who have the most have been answered no matter what the question is, and it does not help in industrial policy. We've seen it for five years now. When I heard the speech to the Minister of Industry earlier today, there was a coherent glorification of his own efforts. ‘Where is Torbjørn? Have you seen the food newspaper E24 in October of this fall? But it was difficult to see what ambitions and what kind of political project this Minister of Industry has. We're more people who wonder about it. The majority takes the initiative and instructs the government. There are many examples: the industrial notification, the bioeconomy strategy and the commercial industry notification, which was submitted last Friday, and which again contains some and thirty measures, where most of the majority have already been imposed by the Storting. Yes, I do not come upon a single initiative of my own from the Right of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. The government talks a lot about the sea, but the budget was gray and appears to be a big yeast, wrote the Fisherman's Newspaper. Just to remind you of some of our sea bets: we're betting on our own marine value creation program, and we're strengthening the maritime sector. That is why we are focusing more on green shipping, autonomous and digital solutions. We will have more knowledge of the coast and the fjords to ensure sustainable economic development. We want to ensure that the fish land, so that it can be processed and added value. Enterprise policy is about the future prospects of business. We clearly say yes, and the government says at best well. Finally, the most important thing is safe people and safe workers. The government doesn't understand that. For this reason, the government has used forces to oppose strong measures against social dumping, stopping temporary employment, improving the solutions to the problem of renting and, not least, the regulation of working life in favour of workers and ordinary people. We can also mention the Color Line case and the seafarers. If we are to succeed, we need to make better use of the possibilities. The lack of initiatives by the judicial authorities in business policy does not increase the value creation and security of ordinary people. It only gives rise to increased differences.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e2448	When we are discussing the state budget today, it may be tempting to talk more about numbers. But there are people we're going to live on in the future. We and our children are the greatest value society has. That is why, since the government change in 2013, a number of measures have been put in place, ranging from late efforts under the red-green to early efforts at school. We have raised the quality of kindergartens, and we are historically focusing on the teachers and the professions. We see that the students learn more, and that our children are met by more capable teachers. Despite the fact that it is claimed from the left that bets on kindergartens and skilled teachers are important, Kutter Arbeiderparteit 85 million. kr to half of the country's kindergartens, and SV kutter 500 mill. kr to fill the country’s teachers’ skills. Fortunately, they do not control the country's knowledge policy, because a lot is now going straight to Norwegian schools and kindergartens. Students learn more, are more present, and more complete advanced education. In the 2015 PISA study, Norwegian students for the first time score significantly better than the OECD average in both reading, science and mathematics. In TIME 2015, Norwegian students at the 5th stage do very well in mathematics. Our children are significantly higher than peers in other Nordic countries. We are among the best in Europe. This promises well and shows that we are on the right track. We have now introduced an obligation for schools to provide intensive education for 1–4 students. steps that struggle with reading, writing and billing, so that no student ceases to raise his hand. Our goal is clear: no children should leave school without being able to read, write and calculate properly. The stakes on teachers here are central to raising the school, because now the goal is for all teachers to have depression. Then we have to extend and continue to invest in the further education promise, which we have started with. Since 2014, as many as 27,000 teachers have been offered further training, and those who have taken further training believe that they themselves have become better at teaching, and that students learn more. We also have to bet on the teachers who are reaching out for more challenges. Our commitment to the teacher-specialist system contributes to the further development of committed and skilled teachers in the school and continues to contribute to the classroom, and not to find career paths outside school or in the administration. In 2019, therefore, we receive a double – to 1,200 teachers – which can become teachers specialists. Because we're going to go a long way to give young people in Norway the best opportunities. When we bet eight million. kr on several doctoral degrees, it is among other things. for more teachers in school to be able to take a doctorate. This is how we contribute to bringing research knowledge and practices out in schools closer together. There are several good examples, but efforts do not start first at school. Therefore, it is very important to ensure good growth and high quality in kindergartens. It is gratifying that more and more children go to kindergarten and share in a professionally good and learning community. Especially positive is the large increase seen among minority speakers. This contributes significantly to good integration into society. In recent years, a number of budgets have introduced schemes that provide free core time or reduce payments for children from low-income families. In 2019, the income limit is further increased to allow 6 500 more children the right to free core time and is now extended to two-year-olds. It will contribute to increased childcare use for low-income families and provide better integration and language training for minority language children. Good integration and good education provide the basis for individuals and for society. But if we are to succeed in getting more bones into the Norwegian economy, we also need to strengthen research and deliver in top class in higher education. Therefore, it has been important to improve the quality of higher education education — now at 25 million. through the national higher education quality arena, which, together with a number of other important quality measures, contributes to better higher education. The revised long-term plan for research and higher education is followed up by about 1.2 billion. kr, and the proposed appropriations for research and development in the State budget are estimated to increase by 1.4 billion. kr. With the state budget for 2019, we have increased the research effort by 10.7 billion since the government change. kr. We recently passed a record then 2 pst. of GDP went to R & D in Norway, thanks to strong efforts by industry, and recently we also crossed the target of 2 pst. return share of EU research funds. This is a happy development and shows that we are also on the right track in higher education. Who controls the knowledge policy in this country matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e2471	A government budget in Norway must have the primary objective of ensuring good health and quality of life for all. Strong community is the best insurance to get it into. But still, where you live, your parent’s level of education and the family economy you grow up in is crucial for your health and for how long you get to be healthy and living. In Norway, the difference between those with good and those with poor health is increasing. It can't stand the Workers' Party. Increased differences must be tackled with policy. The Labour Party will therefore have a broad public health effort, with school food for the young. We want to save the fixed medical system, provide quality care for the elderly and stop the chronic underfunding of our common hospitals. Everyone is responsible for their own health, but as a community and people, we are responsible for everyone's health. Every day thousands of children sit in Norwegian schools without food in their stomachs. It is a reality. Norway is one of the few countries in Europe that do not provide school food as a meal during the day. Together with heavy professional environments, we find only good arguments for introducing a single school meal to everyone, while the Right puts good nutrition on good learning. Understand the one who can. The fixed medical system is the very foundation of our common healthcare system. The scheme was introduced by the Workers' Party and gives all the residents of Norway their own doctor through life. The decision-makers see the individual, provide treatment and advice and are further linked to specialised treatment or social benefits. But the system is in crisis. Half of the municipalities have difficulty recruiting permanent workers. The government's answer is to wait and see. The Labour Party believes that in the next year’s budget, immediate action is needed to secure the permanent scheme and to recruit more permanent staff so that the doctors present can cut the length of their patient lists. Therefore, we will have 400 new posts for general practitioners in specialisation and an increase of 100 more tournament positions than the government proposes – together with the majority – in order to increase the number of qualified doctors. If one gets sick, one must trust that the community is setting up. That's why the Workers' Party wants to spend 1.65 billion. kr more to our hospitals than the majority. The number of patients in need of good care in our hospitals is increasing, while the appropriations do not. This will lead to a two-part healthcare service, where the wallet can determine who gets the best health. New constructions, new medicines, more employees, innovative technologies, digital solutions and, not least, interpersonal ICT systems are needed. If we wait too long for this, most people will be hit. Unfortunately, it seems that the right parties are still prioritizing billions to the richest, allowing the differences in health to increase. The National Audit Office just presented its report on the availability and quality of care for the elderly. The quality varies too much from municipality to municipality. Better targets and stronger instruments are requested from the State. Nothing of this does the government have a plan for. Their older reform, which can hardly be called a reform, was an inspirational catalogue between municipalities. If the community doesn't set up, I guess some could pay for themselves. It seems that the right parties think it's okay to scour – it doesn't concern them anymore. But that means that many will fall outside. It's a concern for the Workers' Party. This is why we invest in the prevention of young people, school food for all, the care system, quality of care for the elderly and in our public hospitals – in our common healthcare service.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e2489	During the financial debate, the theme is essentially what we're going to spend more money on. There are a number of good purposes for which the different parties want to spend money, and the intentions are kind of good, but the result is often not as good. Overbidden policy means that large sums are spent on many measures that do not work. I now want to talk a little bit about how we can take care of a warm and safe society while saving money on it. Every year we spend about 20 billion dollars. kr only on the settlement and training of immigrants. There are large sums, but it doesn't give a good picture of the total use of money. There is a wide range of direct and indirect costs that come to the top of this. The Brochmann Committee has calculated that each non-Western immigrant costs the country an average of 8 million. kr. Since 2012, there have been 121,000 non-Western immigrants to Norway. These are as many inhabitants as there are today in Drammen, Harstad and Haugesund together. If you multiply 121,000 by 8 million, you get a cost of about 1,000 billion. kr. So there are some of the costs that the state has incurred since 2012. It's going to be very demanding to deal with these costs. Fortunately, the sitting government has put the brakes on too fully, and the arrival figures are strongly decreasing. One of the most important things that has happened in Norwegian policy in recent years is that the Progress Party has had a significant impact on immigration policy. Measures that we have previously proposed and have been sent out for years are now being implemented. But, of course, much remains to be done to secure the future economy of the country and the society we have built up. The measures we have implemented have given the lowest asylum rates in several decades. Family immigration has also been greatly reduced. A strict policy works. It removes the incentives to spend on long, dangerous journeys around half the globe completely without a reason. Strict immigration policies help to save lives. In 2019, Norway shall receive 3000 quota refugees. That is far more than the Progress Party really wants. Nevertheless, it's the total arrivals that count. In 2018, it is expected that we will have the lowest arrival rates for asylum and quota refugees and their family reunification since 2006. As you can see, this is probably an example of good progress party policy working. The tightening of asylum immigration opens up opportunities to help more of those who need it much more. There are huge sums of integration measures every year without any significant results being achieved. If we do not succeed in integration, it will cost us even more in the future, both socially and economically. Immigration to Norway leads to increased disparities. Recent data from the SSB show that the increase in poverty in Norway occurs mainly among immigrants. To put an end to this, we need to keep changing the policy. In 2013, there was a slight breakthrough in Norwegian social policy. In the drama, there were major problems with increased social assistance payments, and no matter how many millions were put in to solve the problems, it just got worse. Young immigrants were overrepresented in social assistance payments. Finally, a poster was posted on the stairs at Nav, where it said the following: If you are between 18 and 24 years old and need social assistance, you must attend the Church's Bymition and participate in their work. With one poster we managed one day to halve the number of social welfare recipients in the Drammen. Those who had the opportunity to do other things, but needed a little puff in their backs, found something else to do. Those who had nothing else to do got work training, good routines and felt that they were useful. This is politics The Progress Party has always talked about, but we have been accused of being ice cold and hearty. The truth is, this was the best help we could give, and it was free. All municipalities are now required to impose an activity obligation on social assistance recipients. The government has now presented an integration strategy that will impose stricter requirements both for each immigrant and for the municipalities. We don't want to count the number of hours of education, but we want to make demands for acquired competence. We want to avoid uncritically withdrawing money for different purposes without expecting any results back. To make demands is to respect people, and without making demands, we will not succeed in the integration work either.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e2510	Education is essential for everyone to meet the societal challenges we face. Education is essential to increase employment and reduce social security, to meet digitisation and automation with policies that give people opportunities, to resolve the climate crisis and to balance differences between people. Therefore, kindergarten, school and education are the winners of the Workers' Party's alternative budget. The working party will have safe students who learn more, students who get qualified teachers, follow-up when they need it, and food in their stomachs. The budget is about priorities. While the government cuts in the wealth tax, the Workers' Party proposes to provide school food to all students. It gives better learning, better health and less difference. The working party will spend the big money where it means the most. Food is just a small part of what it takes to give all students the same opportunity to succeed. This is why the Workers' Party's priority of early work in kindergarten begins. We clearly say no to the unsocial increase in the nursery rate of government, while at the same time providing for increased quality. The most important for increased quality are several qualified adults. Where the government proposes minimal growth in the proportion of kindergarten teachers, we want half of the employees in kindergarten to be teachers. Together, the Workers' Party will strengthen the kindergartens by 580 million. kr more than the government. The Labour Party will have a reform of early school efforts to ensure that all students receive the follow-up they need quickly. We will give municipalities the opportunity to recruit 500 more teachers in 2019, especially in 1–4. class. We want to ensure a good implementation of the read, write and calculate guarantee by setting up response teams with specialised educators and other professionals that will provide a stronger team around the students. Higher education is important to address societal challenges. In 2019, the Workers' Party proposed the student budget of over 1.1 billion. kr more to improve the offer for the students. The number of applicants for higher education is record high, but many under 30 years are still out of study or work. The Labour Party will therefore set up 3,000 new study places to give each individual a chance to study, but also to focus on education that is strategically important for Norwegian working life, such as ICT, technology, real science, teacher training and health and social sciences. We want more people to study, more people to follow up and quality, so that more people complete the studies, and the student economy improves. We'll do that without punishing the students by tightening up the scholarship. We propose to stop the government's scholarship, build more student homes, 12 months of student support for students with children, 3 000 places of study, more vocational schools, mentoring and a better mental health service. If Norway is to be a knowledge-based economy and win excellence over prizes, we must enable more people to study and then give them time to study and quality while they are in the studies. In the same way, we need to value the competence of the country's trade union workers. The Labour Party will have more proud trade union workers. If education is to become more relevant and less relevant, the Workers' Party believes that we need to establish a much more committed cooperation between working life, county councils and the state. We propose that the state should contribute a professional billionaire during the ageing period to modern and up-to-date equipment, higher apprenticeship grants and more teaching practices. This is how we ensure that we have the skilled workers we need in the future. Finally, we have to be able to learn all our lives. In that case, exceptional efforts are needed to build the necessary skills across the whole population, where a significant part of the responsibility is assumed by the state. The working party will introduce a competence fund as a start to the large framework that needs to be put in place. Together, we will spend more than a billion on skills reform and empowerment in working life next year, for our principle is that each person should not be left to himself, but that we should solve the challenges together, and that everyone should have a right to the necessary continuing training.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e2529	The Workers' Party's alternative state budget is based on the idea of a stronger community, including in the transport sector. We know that the country is far, but our attitude is that the whole country should be used. Climate change creates new challenges for safe and safe movement. Emissions must be reduced and fossil-free transport solutions must be prioritised, both in the air, on the road, on the rail and on the sea. Our position is that the transport sector should contribute in this area, and the positive thing is that a large part of the industry is going on. We're looking at electric cars and electric buses. It's working on hydrogen. Avinor has acquired the first electric plane, and the maritime sector has developed battery packs for elf and other coastal ships. The first electric jack fishes in Troms. In order to reduce emissions, car traffic in major cities needs to be reduced. The Workers' Party will increase the state share of large collective projects in our big cities to 70 pst. and have a major, coherent development of walking and cycling routes and provide an opportunity to participate in the urban growth arrangements. As part of climate change, we still see major flood and racial damage. Measures to prevent this need to be implemented and the working party has set at 400 million. kr more than in the government budget for racial protection – 200 million. SEK to highways and 200 million. kr to county roads. Aerodromes are necessary for Norway to link and in North Norway aeroplanes are a major part of public communication. The Workers' Party notes that the right-wing government will transfer the FOT routes to the county municipalities, with the risk of fragmentation, fragmentation and not least a lack of full funding from the state. The working party grants support to the following non-governmental airports: 9 million notodden. SEK, grown by 3 million. kr and Ørland with 3 million. kr. – a total of 15 million. kr. The development of broadband is not a priority of the government. On the other hand, they are insisting that the market should be organised and built throughout the country. Unfortunately, that's not how the market works, they're expanding where it's commercially profitable and most customers. To provide broadband across the country, the Workers' Party will set over 400 million. kr in our budget and follow up the 2018 investment, which was also half a billion. That's what's needed. We learned that on Friday 30 November, when the fibre fell into East Finland and everything lay down, including the emergency network, for over five hours. Railway development is an important part of the collective service and is essential for achieving the zero growth target related to greenhouse gas emissions. Public transport must be strengthened if car traffic is to be reduced and rail is to be a real alternative. Travel time, comfort, regularity and flexibility are essential to change people's travel habits, so that they choose more environmentally friendly. The Labour Party opposes the launching of the railway and refers to the last example, where British Go-Ahead was able to win the tender for the Southern Railway despite the fact that they apparently cut lower than 12 out of 15 quality indicators. The working party strengthens the railway budget by nearly 500 million. kr for 2019. We also say no to the EU railway package. We record that the NSB is restructured and fragmented into a lot of new companies – but with well paid directors. The working party is opposed to this fragmentation and the pulverisation of responsibilities. What would we do without the sea? That's what we're asking about north, and the answer is, should we carry the boats? The sea is our national tax chamber, in the fisheries, aquaculture, shipping and other maritime industries, petroleum and renewable energy. These resources represent a high potential for future value creation and new profitable jobs along the coast. We as ports must bet on our natural advantage and develop these further. This is why it is both alarming and sad to see that the right-wing government so much down-prioritises the coast and infrastructure construction along the coast. Fishing ports are almost not being built. And as if not the budget for the coast was weak enough, unfortunately it became even more weakened after the budgetary conciliation with the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e2546	In January 2014, three months after I started meeting in Stortinget, I received a payment message from Nav. At first I thought it was an error payment, and I was a little bit worried about a lookup in the VG, because that's not how all the PR is good PR. But when I checked, it turned out that there was holiday money on the daily allowance I had received in the period I was on leave in 2013. When the employee receives a holiday allowance for the days we have been unemployed, despite the fact that we have a full salary in a new job, the welfare state does not meet those who need it the most. Nevertheless, it is called unsocial when this government changes benefits that are not sustainable over time. Many in this room are more than willing to extend existing or propose new welfare schemes, despite the fact that three full perspectives indicate that the welfare state is not sustainable as it is structured today. For example, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre extended the day-to-day pay system and eroded it, both by weakening the work relationship, reducing the day-to-days of people who have quit themselves, and introducing holiday pay from the first year. This weakens the workline. In order for daily allowances to function properly, the scheme must be targeted at those closest to the labour market. This year we shift the vesting period of minimum income and the calculation basis closer to the date of application to contribute to this. When welfare systems are eroded, the welfare state is also eroded, making it less sustainable. As previously licensed, I wonder about the goodwill the opposition has to put ordinary workers on daily pay of 62.4 p.m. long-term income, so that the employer has free access to labour through the permitting scheme. Not only is the income of workers reduced but it is also eaten by the day-to-day allowances. Should the company not normalize the operation, and the employees lose the job, the employee has taken the full risk. That this should be more social than normalizing the period of leave so that free hands get a new job is a mystery. It is even more strange when the opposition calls for long lay-offs and more places of action for the unemployed, while at the same time we have regions with labour shortages. The government's fiscal and industrial policies lay the basis for creating the jobs that people are to be included in. Enterprises and owners can either retain more of the profits and create jobs, or pay more taxes because the Workers' Party would rather be investing in action places. The last is a policy that creates spirals out of work. An active inclusion policy is about creating positive spirals into working life. This could be done, for example, by: is done when temporary employment becomes a step into a permanent job, without more people remaining temporarily, as we have seen since 2015. It is not just to ensure the sustainability of the welfare state that the Right is talking about the working line and the right to work on benefits. Work is more than just a job to go to. It gives more economic freedom, is inclusion and a community beyond home and family. It is important for society that everyone contributes, but most importantly to the individual himself. And the government doesn't just make demands, we also make demands. Together with the social partners, the authorities have agreed on a national competence strategy and a Council of Competence Policy has been set up to follow up this strategy. The government's competence reform, where no one is going to go out of date, is already in full swing. When the government takes the consequences of the three perspective messages have become visible, and makes moderate changes to calibrate welfare schemes, the accusations of petty cutbacks come. Time will, of course, show whether it was unsocial to change a little today to preserve a solid welfare state tomorrow. For it cannot be the case that all benefits are to be achieved regardless of their outcome. Those who do not want to make changes assume that almost all Norwegian performances are perfectly calibrated, hit the target population with precision, have no unforeseen effects and work a hundred percent as intended. Of course it's not like that. Fortunately, many of us know that well-being is more than the sum of the state budget. It's also the sum of the voluntary communities, who get to talk about here in the hall when they're talking about only one community. An active inclusion policy includes a discussion about the many devices of the welfare state, for most of us will need to borrow from the welfare state in life. Then it's important that it doesn't yield, but actually supports us when we need it most. That the government continues to rate work, activity and conversion ensures this, even for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e2563	The party of progress is the party that has faith in the individual, who believes that individuals are better able to determine their own everyday lives than any politician is to decide for them. Freedom of choice is one of the most beautiful words I know about, and I am looking forward to the Advance Party being able to give more freedom of choice to our children, young people and older people out in the municipalities. If there's one thing we know, it's that the Workers' Party has started the fight against freedom of choice, and that's what our citizens want to lose. The Workers' Party has announced that if they gain more power, they will carry out a large-scale recommuneration in Kommune-Norway. All private actors working for or in the municipalities are going away, and who has to take the bill for an out-of-date Labour Party principle as a municipal monopoly? Private kindergartens which have ensured full childcare and freedom of choice for all parents in the country shall be purchased and operated under municipal control. Private kindergartens deserve praise, not a working party that kicks their legs under them. Private welfare providers in the care of the elderly must be pushed out of the market and free user choice must be eliminated. Let me remind the Stortinget and the Norwegian people of one thing: believing that public providers are always good is at best naive. In 2011, the Labour Inspectorate chose to report the Arbeiderparti-bastionen Trondheim municipality for a total of 26 100 breaches of the Work Environment Act. The municipality, which had been an exhibition window for red-green parties, was reported to the police for record crimes in the home services, hospitals and old people's homes. Thus, it was not given that a municipality always provides the best services for neither users nor employees. If the quality of care for the elderly is the most important, why should you depend on who provides the services? Anyone unable to deliver quality should be phased out, whether the provider is public or private. Our citizens deserve freedom of choice. Our citizens deserve to decide for themselves who should provide them with services when they need it. Competition works in all sectors. In the nursery sector, the Progress Party has ensured a level playing field for both public and private actors. The result is that no other sector has more satisfied users. People are happy with their kindergarten. The quality requirements are the same. The parent payment is equal to. For taxpayers, a nursery place costs exactly the same regardless of whether the supplier is private or public, but for parents, who can now choose between different kindergartens, this means a simpler everyday life. You can choose kindergartens that have long opening hours, that have food, that have animals, that have culture, or kindergartens where you like to travel on a boat trip. You have a sea of choices, and it appreciates the parents in this country. The reality is that free user choice and a state that takes the bill lead to queues going down and users getting more satisfied. Our older ones deserve to be taken seriously and heard. They deserve freedom to choose for themselves and to ensure that those who receive an offer receive the offer they need. The budget to be adopted continues an important policy area for the Progress Party, and I would like to stress that the elderly are winners in this year's budget. We have projects with state-funded care for the elderly, which have been a great success. In Lillesand municipality in my home country, everyone is so happy with this project that they want to continue it. All employees, councillors, mayors, users, relatives – absolutely everyone – boast of this project, and there is consensus among all political parties that this is something to work on. Indeed, care for the elderly varies greatly in the municipality of Norway. We in the Progress Party think it is a pity that it is the municipality's economy that decides today whether you get a good offer when you get older or not. That is why we are continuing the attempt to finance the elderly in six new municipalities. We have already received a signal that the municipality of Arendal has unanimously decided to join the system. So it ranges from SV to the Workers' Party and the Center Party, and the parties on the Stortinget should notice that. The party of progress has been passed on to an elder representative, and that is important to us, because the elderly do not necessarily have strong relatives who are able to speak their case. It has been important for us to put in place an agent who can handle individual matters, which takes our older people seriously. I am pleased that the municipalities are supporting the old-age policy of the Progress Party, and that it is the older people who are the winners of this year's budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e2584	This is the way in which we are going to discuss the budgets of the various departments at a later stage, and the budget of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is going to be discussed in a later meeting in Stortinget. But there are some aspects of the budget that I believe belong anyway in this more general debate related to this year's government budget, and which I will place here in this debate. One aspect of which there is reason to attach much attention, I and the Workers' Party's fraction in the Foreign and Defence Committee, is that, in our view, it is a regrettablely persistent downgrading of the Army. It is clear from the budget submitted. The decisive choice for the Army has been pushed into ever-new investigations. I'm sorry. Important investments have also been postponed again and again, and are again suspended in this budget. In the defence, there is considerable concern about this, because the defense clearly sees that there is a division of priorities and efforts between the various arms, and the army has now come into a situation that is increasingly difficult. They themselves tell us that they believe that there is a critical situation. With this coverage, it is possible to say – although of course there is a somewhat sharp wording, but I choose it anyway – that the government is opposed to the decision of the Storting to strengthen the country’s power. In the Workers' Party we have higher ambitions for the Army. We will not cut into the Army in the inner Troms, but we will grant the necessary funds for our own army helicopters for Bardufoss to start the investment in new tanks and to speed up the Army's construction in Finnmark. As I said, we're going to come more thoroughly back to this, but it was necessary to clarify this very important point also in this debate. It is another important aspect of this – and it is consistent with the entire government policy; we note that throughout the debate this day – and it is the privatisation lever. Now it is an important aspect of this in terms of defence, and it is that the government is in strong development – and that is only mentioned in the budget, but is a major issue in defence – a privatisation of the defence workshops. I just want to make Stortinget aware that the subjects are completely opposed to this. The leadership of the Air Force and the management of the Army is totally opposed to this. They strongly warn against it. However, the government through the budget they base – they only have a small passage in which to be aware – will have an authority to implement this. And they do that for ideological reasons. Privatisation is a major challenge for society in general. That's clear, because there's a lot of problems that we'll do better together. But this is about defence. This is about workshops that have a high quality and strong competence to handle things. An example is what we learned when our troops were in Lithuania with German troops, where the Norwegian troops of course carried their maintenance team, which could serve in the field, while the Germans, who had private, had to stop when the hour was out. So this is also an emergency question, but nevertheless it is based on the budget to be implemented, for ideological reasons. But you can't wait for anything else, because that's what governs this government's policy in all fields in all sectors of society. The last thing I want to mention briefly, and that's a difficult debate, is the 2-percent. It is a demanding debate. It's demanding for everyone. But that's to say that in what's in the budget as the Stortinget is now invited to adopt by the government and the majority, the share goes down in relation to gross domestic product. There's no doubt about it. It actually goes up from the Labour Party. It's a real $90 million cut. kr in the defence budget of the government. There's a breach on the line that the Right has had against the Defense, and after I joined this committee, I've got a lot of knowledge about what they think in the Defense, and they think it's very strange that the Right stands for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e2601	Since the Progress Party came into government a little over five years ago, the budget for transport has increased by almost 75 pst. Traffic has been, and is still, a clear budget winner — including in 2019. One of the biggest successes in Norwegian transport and public money use is in fact the establishment of Nye Veier. They are constantly pointing to new, good results, and Nye Veier is doing well with the expansion of a nearly 550 km long portfolio – something we see clearly in both E18 and E6. The costs are cut by approx. 20 pst., which will give the entire 30 billion. In the case of the tax payers, the amount of the tax is reduced. More motorways are being built than ever. This results in reduced travel time, increased road safety, increased capacity and positive societal benefits. We are pleased to note that car traffic is still in good growth in Norway, while emissions from the new car fleet are falling significantly. Thanks to the government's changes in car charges, Norway now has the world's most environmentally friendly new car park. Emissions are already well below the objectives of the climate agreement. In October, they were only 63 grams, about half of what is common in many EU countries. A whole 66 pst. of the new car sales were electric cars or hybrid cars. The car is our most flexible means of transport, and the car is a necessity we should still have spread residence in the country. It is therefore important that we continue to develop a network of high-speed, quadruple motorways, linking the parts of the country together, reducing transport costs, increasing road safety and creating efficient housing and labour market regions. But as important as building new ones, taking care of the infrastructure and the roads we already have. There is a significant maintenance run in the transport sector. After the aftermath had increased under previous governments, we have now reduced the maintenance allowance every year after we became a government. We continue the reduction in 2019 as well. We see that New Roads works, we see that New Roads is a success. They are offensive, innovative, efficient and build faster, cheaper and better, and we see that this also positively infects the state road system. The competition and the dynamics between these two state actors are working. As a result, it is strange that some parties want to cut in New Roads and even lay down New Roads. I am thinking in particular of SV, which will stop the expansion that New Roads are doing. It is not good, neither for road safety, nor for prosperity, nor for growth, nor for employment, nor for the development of society. In addition, the drivers shall be subject to a new charge shock. This will primarily affect people with poor advice and usual incomes, who in a scattered country have a long way to go to and from work and leisure activities. It is justified to ask whether SV has understood the consequences of its policy. If New Weger is stopped, several important extensions on E6 and E18 are also stopped that are already in progress. The consequence will be semi-completed roads around the country and open wounds after major natural interventions related to unfinished projects. And what about the legal thing? I imagine that it can quickly become a loss-loss situation – that you have to pay for half-finished projects as well as compensation for contractors who cannot complete the projects. Today's government is not only betting on the road, we are also betting on the railways. The rail budget for 2019 is 25 billion. kr, and there's an increase of 2 billion. kr from the previous year. There is an increase in the number of passengers on the train while there are several departures. We carry out a continuous upgrade of the train equipment and replace it with new and better material. But it's not just on the road we save billions. So let's do that in the railway. The rail reform could lead to a reduction in costs and better provision for travellers. Consequently, I just have to say it is strange that there is so much resistance from the left to the railway reform. It may seem that the resistance is based on a lack of insight into what the reform really involves, because it's not about massive privatisation and we're selling the rail to the rest of the world – China, as I see someone has signaled. No, it's the state, the government, which through different state companies must be responsible for governance and operation – that is, everything. The rails on which trains are to run shall be owned by the State. Entour, which is responsible for the sale of tickets, is owned by the State. Operation and maintenance shall be carried out by Mantena, which is also a State company. The only competition – not privatisation, but healthy and good competition where the NSB can also compete and compete in the same line with any other company – is who will drive the trains. There will be competition, and there we already see positive changes on the Southern Railway, where the public will save several hundred million dollars a year as a result of competition. And the NSB almost halved its bid in relation to the state today paying the NSB for the same section of the track.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e2626	Providing the safety of our citizens is the basic task of magnification and government. The two greatest threats to our security in peacetime are terror and organized crime in the form of criminal gangs and networks. Fortunately, we have had a lot of attention for a good few years here on the Storting, but in the case of organized crime and criminal gangs, there has been more sporadic focus on it, depending on events and media attention. The police work has been marked by the same thing; it has been too sporadic. So far, we have had two or three major efforts against criminal gangs, if we look all the way back to the 1990s. The largest and most long-term project was the reproduction project from 2006 to 2011, which produced results in particular to the B-growth. The problem is that when the police are not as close as they are between bets, the rest of the world keeps in the same way and gets the opportunity to build up. The situation is now alarming because the older gangs, called Young Guns and the B gang, have gained more leeway, while the attention has been focused on the new, younger community in the south of Oslo, especially concentrated in the Holmlia area. We also see that it builds up young criminal gang environments in the capital area – five to seven places, says the police – which have little impulse control and trigger many acts of violence. I think we need to learn from the efforts made against the gangs and learn from the developments we have seen in recent years, and make sure that you don't turn off and on, that the police must work continuously, and that in the efforts currently being made, we have to make sure that this is what happens: you have to be close to these environments on a stable basis and close enough on them to find out how they can be judged, where the money goes off, how the money is done, how the money is done, how the communication is, etc. There is cause for concern when the police reported in the VG lookup last week that there was not enough research capacity to follow up what is called priority objects in these communities, i.e. repeaters, backers who are key people to keep it going, build up, and have contacts with international criminal networks abroad, and who have to be taken out in order to stop the gangs. These are also criminal role models for young recruits. It gives a very bad signal when these are on the loose in the local community for years, and you know they're behind and even taken for criminal acts without even being convicted for it. When the police say that they do not have the research capacity enough to go after these main characters, there is cause for concern. Obviously, it's harder to investigate them, because they don't do much themselves, they get others, especially young people, to do the actions separately, but the more we have to use resources to reveal what they're doing. That is why the Workers' Party has proposed 69 million in its alternative state budget. kr more to strengthen police investigation in relation to the government's plan, and a total of 410 million. More to the police, which of course will also give more room for action in total to combat the criminal gangs. One thing in this development that we should notice especially and have to take the greatest seriousness, is that these backers, these gangs, are recruiting ever younger members. Now we see that they bring young people down to the age of 12 to 13 to commit serious crime. When these young people reach the age of 15–16–17, they may already have a long-range criminal scroll. As a general rule, we have in Norway, and should continue to have it, that it is youth follow-up — juvenile punishment — that applies to them under 18 years of age. But we also need to ensure, as both the police and the Conciliation Council stress, that they have real sanctions when they do not deal with the forms of youth follow-up and juvenile punishment. Unfortunately, there are a few young people in these environments who do not, and who continue with repeated violent and very dangerous acts. Then it is important that we have these youth places available in criminal care, so that you can take care of those who cannot be corrected in other ways. The previous government planned 14 places for young people in criminal custody. They are outside prison, protected and ideal for use against them. Now eight places are created. We've now set aside 10 million. In our alternative budget, in order to create more places for young people in these groups in the field of criminal justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e2643	The arrows point in the right direction. Economic growth is solid while greenhouse gas emissions are falling. Companies are investing more and more people are coming to work. In the last year, 56 000 new jobs have been created – three quarters in the private sector. The unemployment rate is now the lowest in ten years, and the unemployment rate is lowest in many districts. Of course, this is important for individuals and families, but it is also important for us as a society. When more people are at work, more people are contributing. The aim is to create a sustainable welfare society. It is about both economic and social sustainability. The choices we make must help those who come after us to get at least as good a starting point. It is therefore important that we use the good times so that we provide the basis for continued positive developments. That's why we're lowering taxes, so companies can invest in new jobs and growth, so we're continuing the strong growth in investment on the road and track, and that's why we're continuing a systematic boost for kindergarten, school, higher education and research. This is in stark contrast to the red-greens, which will make it more expensive to work and more expensive to invest in new jobs. And it's in stark contrast to SV, which now lowers the ambition for school by cutting 500 million. kr in continuing training for teachers. I think we have a common desire to preserve a society of small differences, a society of trust and cohesion. This requires an active and long-term policy to allow more people to contribute and fewer to stay outside. The main basis is kindergarten and school. This is why the government prioritises free core time and continued quality levels in kindergarten, early work, more teachers and further training, and therefore we continue to pursue the profession. At the same time, an inclusion virtue to help more people with holes in the CV into the job a reform of skills to help ensure that no one goes out to date in the world of work; integration commitments to help more people get into work and into society Immigrants must participate in small and large communities in the Norwegian community, and the most important thing is that more people come to work. This is essential in order to ensure a sustainable welfare society with confidence and cohesion. The government has put forward a new strategy for integration policy. The main action is to build the knowledge path into working and social life. In the 2019 budget, we are expanding the offer with free core time in kindergarten, which will provide many minority-speaking children with a better opportunity to learn Norwegian and be integrated. We double the funding for primary education for immigrant youth in secondary school, to give more people an opportunity to do so. We strengthen labour-oriented measures for women, and we open up cooperation with social entrepreneurs. We are expanding the trials of modular training, and we are increasing support for basic training. The left has a clear need to present itself as both warmer and with a stronger social commitment. The financial debate is also marked. I don't see any reason to doubt the motives of other parties, but we can have different strategies to achieve these goals. We're concerned that we have to create before we can share. We must build a foundation for our welfare society. We are committed to lifting those who were hanging out in kindergarten and school, building a stronger team around the children in kindergarten and in school, and implementing an inclusion diet that helps us to get more people into work, and not least to implement an integration promise that allows us to build the knowledge path into working and social life for more immigrants.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e2687	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e2693	Today there was a new Fafo report that looks at the growing digital class division in Norwegian school. In the report, Fafo has looked at the digital assumptions of the 10th grade before the math exam. Unfortunately, the report points out that access to digital tools varies considerably, both at home at school and at school. This is also a statement of the results. I'm concerned to see that we have such a big digital class distinction, and not least that this gives us such a difference between municipalities. Some people do it very well – Bærum municipality is an example of it – while others are looking for more. The Labour Party has requested a comprehensive digital plan for the school, which addresses the need for both infrastructure and the development of digital learning material. Is the findings of this Fafo report also of concern to the Council of State, and what will the government do to counteract the digital class distinction in school?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e2704	The representative Tvedt Solberg raises a very important question. We have to make sure we don't get such a digital class distinction. Fortunately, Norway is in the situation that most people have access to digital tools, but we also know that there are some who do not. That's why school becomes so important. With the new curricula and the new trade innovations, we work with both digital judgment and digital creativity. We have to make sure that students not only use but also participate in creating new technologies. We have put in place the technological school bag, which helps us to give teachers both a level of competence and provide equipment. Not least, we are now contributing resources to the development of more learning resources. We have a strategy for digitization that we're working on, but I think we have to admit that there are still too many differences, and that we have a job to do to lift all schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e2713	I know the means that the government has put up with -- they're important -- but it's pretty small sums, which in no way goes to when you see the huge need that is, not least because of how many municipalities there are, how many classrooms there are, and how many students there are who need this more digital education. What worries me about the increasing digital class distinction is that there is a great difference between different municipalities, and that is where we in the Workers' Party have pointed out that there will be and is a need for a larger, national approach to this. Last year, a Joint Education and Research Committee had a note that called for more government development of digital learning material. Now one also sees in the Fafo report from today that there are large differences between different municipalities and different schools. My question is therefore: does not the Council of State also see that there is a need for a slightly more general national approach to this, and that if one leaves it up to each municipality, will this division of classes only continue to grow?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e2722	I mean we need both. We need municipalities and school owners who take an active responsibility for both equipment and skills enhancement. We also need to continue working on the national strategy, where it is not about one action, but about the combination of different actions. It does not help to have equipment in the classroom if the teacher cannot use it. For this reason, digitisation is also an important part of both continuing training and teacher training, and it is important that we continue to work to enhance skills and cooperate with municipalities on equipment. We are now in a period when we are renewing all the subjects, and where there will also be a need for new learning resources. It also provides a unique opportunity to see digital learning resources in the context of trade renewal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e2729	An overall kindergarten sector, with both municipal and private kindergartens, unisonably agrees that the standard of living in kindergartens is still underfunded. The government's reality, as expressed in the budget proposal, is in stark contrast to the total protests of the nursery sector. Here the government argues that the staffing norm is already funded, and that the extra funds that were put into the RNB are really superfluous. But when we were presented with the budget agreement, the government parties were clearly convinced and accepted 160 million. Extra kroner. The Central Party has proposed 400 million. kr in order to complete the financing of the Staff Code, so that its implementation does not lead to cuts in other activities in kindergarten and school. So what is the reason why the government now sees the same need, and can the Council of State explain the extra resources for staffing in kindergartens when they think there is no need for it?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e2736	The Council of State believes the same thing as when he presented the state budget, I mean the same thing as last year, and I mean the same thing as the red-green government meant in 2012 and 2013. We have maintained the same principles for transferring new tasks to municipalities. These principles have also been used for manning standards. Of course, I am recording the discussion, and the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party has agreed to increase the funds somewhat until next year. Which model to put on is something we're going to discuss in the first place with the Christian People's Party, but it's especially related to the small kindergartens and the private kindergartens, where the funding is a little bit after the municipal authorities. There may be a need, and we are now discussing new models to ensure that the funds that come into the budget are well distributed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e2743	First, I have to remind the Council of State that there have never been as many unskilled teachers in school as after this government took over, and that SV sees no point in re-training well-qualified teachers. Of course, those who want to do so will have to do so, but we choose to use this money to fully finance both the standard of teaching and the norm for the number of employees in kindergartens, food for young people, homework, more teachers – that is, everything that teachers and parents want. That's a good bet from our side. Then there is a question whether the Council of State sees that the government has taken has led to a record in the number of unskilled teachers in Norwegian school, and that it gets worse when the government has taken the grip they have taken, separating well-qualified teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e2750	First of all, no one is being separated. Secondly, there will be no more skilled teachers in school by cutting dramatically in the further education of teachers. This is one of the central divisions between the Socialist Left Party and the Centre-Right. We prioritise high ambitions for the school, for the teachers and for the students. The grips we've taken in school policy work. We see that the students learn more, they are more present at school, more complete, and more complete. We, in cooperation with the Christian People's Party, have helped to increase the number of teachers, and we are betting on continuing education. The teachers who have been in continuing education report that they are becoming more committed and better than teachers, and that the students learn more. I'm not going to go into SV's orientation, but I find that SV lowers the ambitions of the schools and teachers – it's not going to be the center – right.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e2759	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e2764	It cannot be repeated too often: Norway is at its best when we solve the problems and challenges together, because it provides better solutions for most people, and because it creates a community that is stronger. But if we are to succeed, policy – and especially economic policy – must build up under the community. Policy must contribute to a society where the differences between people are small and people's opportunities are great. That's what the Labour Party's draft budget is doing. The Norwegian economy is over the setback in the oil price drop. That's good. What has helped us most over the knee is a weak crown, good for the export industry, an unusually low interest rate and the nights and responsible wage settlement. Thank you to the social partners! Employment is increasing again, but unemployment is still high. And the economic growth is fragile, vulnerable to things we don't have control of: the unrest in the Middle East, a ludicrous American president, brexit. These are conditions that can lead to new setbacks in the world economy, thereby weakening our own growth capacity. The Norwegian export-oriented economy is among the most open in the world and therefore vulnerable to what is happening around us. It's great to be happy in our country and to have Norwegian interests taken care of as an ideological guide, but we should also be quite happy in our neighboring country, those who buy our goods and services and thereby contribute to jobs and value creation at home. Therefore, Norway is one of the most dependent countries for trade to take place within secure multilateral frameworks, such as the WTO, and trade agreements such as the EEA. The Minister of Finance was concerned about the spread of anti-globalisation and protectionism in his speech. I share that concern and hope the Minister of Finance repeats this at the next central government meeting of the Progress Party. For now prominent FrPs have thrown themselves on this national populistic wave and are talking about renegotiating our most important trade agreement. International obligating agreements are described as ‘ moving decisions away from people’ and as ‘undemocratic’. Well, today's business is telling us today about the company Mapei in North Odal, where the Italian owners would not have invested if we had not had the EEA agreement. Isn't that close to people? Still, some hope that brexit will give us an example of what is called a better agreement with the EU – what is now ‘better’ to consist of. In that case, the debate in the United Kingdom cannot be followed very closely. With the exception of fishermen, who hope that they will not share the quotas with their neighbours, there are no industries in the United Kingdom that see new opportunities in Brexit. British agriculture, too, is deeply concerned, export-oriented as it is. It is only a matter of limiting damage when the British leave the internal market and have to act on the basis of a trade agreement in the future. If we are to have the principle that everything that concerns us is to be determined here in the Chamber, how are we going to solve our big, common challenges? The climate crisis has been one of the key themes of this debate — rightly so. Does anybody think we're going to solve it for each of us? The Paris Agreement, to which we have joined, is also an agreement that commits us to action. How Near Was It Adopted? How democratic was that process? But there's a lot of excitement about this in the hall anyway – fortunately. International obligatory cooperation is of course not without challenges, but it is the only way we can jointly solve our common challenges. Not least an existing challenge, which is the task of actually limiting the warming up of the globe. Isn't it hard enough for us to have a president talking about America first, if not everyone else?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e2783	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e2789	There's not much life, lust and commitment to trace at government parties. What they're starting to brag about is that they were able to keep the deadlines in the last negotiations. From the point of view of the Progress Party, it is the case of an elderly representative who is being drawn up. After five years in government, it would have been thought that the Progress Party had higher ambitions than to get an older representative, at least to assess the Progress Party on the basis of opinions and demands before they entered the government. The working party takes health and care seriously. We show it very clearly in our draft budget. We give priority to a strong local economy. We're increasing the financial effort towards Kommune-Norway by 3.5 billion. kr more than the government proposed. It's not small money, but we do it because we see that it's necessary and that it's right to do it. The vast majority of welfare services received by citizens are provided by municipalities and should be able to do so properly, the framework conditions must allow for this. Unfortunately, the government's proposal makes it very difficult for municipalities to develop quality of services when they get as poor a starting point as they actually do. Yes, the starting point is so bad that it is the government itself that has to take the great responsibility that the municipalities see themselves forced to introduce property taxes, a tax that virtually no one in the municipalities wants to take in, but that Finance Minister Siv Jensen and the government force. The right-wing government can only ask its own rapporteurs who have either introduced, passed on or even increased property taxes in their municipalities in the last four years – that is part of them. They say correctly that without property tax there would be a standstill in the municipality. That's not a good certificate. For Østfold, the Labour Party, with its draft budget, would have allocated some 180 million to the municipalities. kr more in 2019 than the government. If we dare to look at the draft budgets for the last five years together, we will see that there will be large sums of money lost by the Østfold municipalities. There is no doubt about that matter. It is not just the Eastfold municipalities that would have much more to go with to care for the elderly, health and school. We could take another example from another state: Elverum would get over 10 million. kr more for good purposes, and I think the Right-Rapporteur and the Council of Elverum would be happy to receive such a sum. I hear the finance minister say that they agree that we should solve the problems together. It's going to be empty words when we see what they're actually doing in their most important document. There are no more words and actions together. The government is not committed to building the community. I think that's the government's draft budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e2804	The government's proposals for the government budget will provide tighter frameworks next year, both for municipalities and for county municipalities. The free income of municipalities is said to increase by 2.6 billion. NOK, but when tied costs are deducted, nothing will be left. Several older people in need of municipal services, interest rate increases, new cuts in the transfer to resource-intensive services, new demands for schools and kindergartens, reduced income through property taxes – these are government regulations that provide a very demanding municipal economy next year. As in previous years, the Christian People's Party has concluded a budgetary agreement with the government parties. Unfortunately, it has not become an agreement that changes greatly on the narrow borders the municipalities have to deal with. The exception is the reversal of the cut-off proposal for resource-intensive users and increased compensation for the introduction of new teacher norms in primary school. I had expected more – based on the strong signals of the Christian People's Party leaders. The party will cooperate with the current government to strengthen well-being, it was said. The result of the Christian People's Party can point out is not in relation to the ambitions we were suggested. The proposal for a budget of the Centre Party is adapted to the expenditure needs of municipalities and counties. We're strengthening the municipal framework by 2.4 billion. kr and the county council of 1.5 billion. kr. The counties' frame includes 1 billion. kr for upgrading the county road network, a split layer between the State and the county municipalities that is absolutely necessary to reduce the maintenance run. Budgetary consultation of the Municipal Committee is an important part of the budgetary process. A repetition of the last five years has been a warning against the government's cut in appropriations for regional and regional policy. The appropriations for regional development funds have been more than halved in the last five years, compared to the 2014 budget proposal from the red-green government. For 2019, 223 million were cut. kr. The devaluation of appropriations for the economic development work of the county councils is in stark contrast with the government's claim that they will strengthen the county council as a regional development actor. When I travel around District Norway and visit relatively newly established businesses, they all point to how important regional development funds have been for them to get started at all. The same applies to re-establishment after closure of corner stone holdings, such as: in the Lierne. There is no strengthening of industrial development in the districts of the budgetary agreement. That the Christian People's Party – as one of the proponents of new tasks for the states – has not prioritised this is disappointing. Greater responsibility for regional development combined with empty toolbox – no, it is not linked. It pointed out to all those who were involved in the consultation on new tasks for the counties. The budgetary effects of my own country, the Trendelag, clearly show what the Central Party's budget would mean. The municipalities of Trøndelag would receive SEK 178 million. SEK more, County Municipality 117 million. kr more.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e2817	A week ago I read an interview with a happy young couple who got my aging Christian People's Party heart to knock a little faster. The luck was that they could finally breathe out and find that their jobs were secured, so that they could go to the Christmas meeting with their little daughter without fear of being without a job and income in a few months' time. The reason why the workplaces of Therese, Per Magne and 700 other seafarers are not at stake is the budgetary agreement concluded between the Christian People's Party and the government parties on 20 November. There it was, among other things. agreed to scrape the notified change in the operating area regulation for foreign ferries and to strengthen the reimbursement scheme for seafarers of 35 million. kr. This does not allow Color Line to flag the Kiel ferry in the Norwegian International Skip Register. This gives you a win-win situation. The Company Color Line may continue to benefit from a generous and good reimbursement scheme which ensures the company’s State transfers of 100 million. kr per year, as long as the company operates the Kiel ferry under Norwegian flag and with Norwegian crew. The staff on board continue to have a sound job protection system through the provision that NOR-registered ships are to be manned by Norwegian seafarers. In the interview with Therese and Per Magne in the Newspaper, the two stated that the budgetary agreement between the Christian People's Party and the government parties is a victory for democracy. I fully agree with that. We in the Christian People's Party have had a close and good dialogue with the government on this matter in the last year. In the context of the review of the revised national budget, we asked for a statement as to whether an amendment to the Regulation was necessary to ensure the competitiveness of Color Line. That report we have now received, and the government parties have accepted the Christian People's Party's argument that the change should not be implemented. On the other hand, I do not agree with the chairman of the Stortinge nutrition committee, Geir Pollestad, who in VG on 22 November is trying to present this as a painful defeat for the government. Unlike the representative Pollestad, I have been involved in the dialogue with the government parties in this matter, and I would like to commend both the Minister for Industry and the President-in-Office of the People's Party in the Business Committee, Morten Ørsal Johansen, for good cooperation, so that we have now settled the matter in a good way, both for the shipping company concerned and for their employees. The other opposition parties have led a loud and sometimes ugly rhetoric in this matter. Among other things, a year ago, in the context of the treatment of the State budget, the words and phrases from this pulpit were used, directed at representatives in the Chamber, who were of such a nature that the prime minister chose to use the club against inappropriate use of words. On the other hand, we in the Christian People's Party have chosen factuality and dialogue as our working method. Thus, we have managed to land the case in a way that makes a unanimous increase now go for a solution that ensures 700 Norwegian jobs. It's not a defeat for anyone. That is a great victory for democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e2834	Never has the backbone of the international climate negotiations that started today been darker. We are at risk of getting a world that is not to be recognized, if we do not take the warnings from the United Nations Climate Panel seriously. But while the rug is gloomy, the possibilities for emissions have never been greater. That gives hope. Around the world, renewable energy is becoming increasingly profitable. Continuing development as today, renewable energy projects such as solar and wind will compete out the fossil energy forms such as gas, coal power and oil. The changes we have to go through are big. According to the world's leading climate scientists, through changes we have not seen in our history. That means that if we're going to do this, every state budget must be an environmental budget, and we have to achieve the environmental objectives we set. This government doesn't. They are deliberately heading towards breaking the Norwegian emissions target by 2020. For over five years, the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have governed climate policy in the state budgets. For over five years, we have witnessed a majority who have not taken the climate noise seriously and given us the emission cuts we need. The cuts they boast of having completed have made sure to dive in palm oil, rainforest destruction and increased emissions elsewhere on the globe. It is time to put an end to climate policy – everything is going to go away. All emissions from fossil energy use must be eliminated if we are to avoid catastrophic climate change. This is what has been the guide for us in SV when we have created our budget. No emissions are saved. The time to make it cheaper to pollute is over. We provide in our proposal to give people a simpler environment working day, an environmental business day where environmental choices are taken on autopilot because it pays off. Cyclists, electric drivers, walkers, bus, trams and trains serve on SV's budget. Where the government gives tax cuts to the richest, SV gives an environmental budget to the many.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e2849	Does it matter who governs the country? Does it play any role in the quality of care for the elderly and the everyday life of the everyday heroes, those who work in care and care, who actually controls? Does it matter to the employees of kindergarten and school, those who are going to make sure that our children get the best start of their lives? Does it play a role in the everyday economy of young children’s parents who govern? Does it matter to those who are concerned about their job, who controls? Does it play a role for the everyday lives of ordinary workers who controls? Does it matter to those who are concerned about centralization, who controls? For my county, Buskerud, there are 172 million reasons why it actually plays a big role who controls the country – 172 million. more with the Labour Party in order to create strong communities: several employees in kindergarten and school, several employees in the care of the elderly, that people can live the good life both in the city and in the countryside, a government budget that makes it possible to build Norway's most modern hospital in the Drammen without cutting off offers and services to ordinary people, a government budget that takes the fight against poverty seriously. It means no cash benefits that inhibit integration and the working line, yes to labour market measures and an integration promise that brings people into work, yes to an organised working life in which workers have power, and yes to school meals and leisure services for all regardless of the size of the mother and father's account. If we are to live in one of the world's best countries, with a strong welfare society and strong communities both in the city and in the countryside, we must take equality seriously. It is a country where we value the line of work and take the work of ordinary people seriously, a country with small differences, a country that builds layers and not elites, a country that distributes fair, has value creation and builds the jobs of the future – not a country that gives huge tax cuts to the elite and to the very richest. How a growth manages the community's resources determines whether the happy country of Norway also applies to future generations, whether we will also have the social democratic community of many countries looking to the future. While the collective right-hand side is for the 1 pst. richest in the country, the Workers' Party is for workers, for ordinary people who want to build the team and not the elite.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e2862	Security of help when you need it is a supporter of the welfare community. Ensuring good health and care services to all when the need arises is a public responsibility. Increasing and ageing populations, as well as increasing opportunities in medical treatment, make it more important than ever to adapt to the population and disease picture of the future. Our budget will further reduce patient waiting times, capacity will increase, and quality will be strengthened. We grant more for faster treatment and prevention. Patients and their needs need to be placed at the centre of health care development and change. There is a need to strengthen and modernise the health and care services in municipalities and to ensure better coordination of the overall health supply. Care for the elderly and caregivers needs to be further developed in order to provide quality and activity to all those who need it. We will use all the good forces to ensure patients' health care of high quality, freedom of choice and greater diversity in the supply. A good example is the package sequence, which has been well received. They're supposed to make sure people don't go wild in the system, but they know what's the next step, and that they get good treatment faster. We want several package sequences in several areas. There's no more money entry for post that secures the health care into the future, there's a comprehensive policy that sees the system in context and puts the patient in the center. The system has a lot of defenders, but we're not chosen to defend the system, we're chosen to manage it and preferably improve it as well. Everything can't be done with more money. With limited human resources and increasing population and patients, it is too passive. We need to find new and better solutions that make our total resources work best together. In order to achieve our objectives, a well-functioning fixed medical system is essential. I have great expectations for the government's further work on this, in good cooperation with the parties, the Lege Association and the KS. If we are to succeed, more doctors must want to work in the primary health service, more would have to be fixed. Looking at one of these developments, without changing the way it works, we're going to drop out of resources – both employees and money. Better coordination, public health, prevention and, not least, better vaccine coverage are important factors for success, and not least: To maintain the best in patients’ healthcare, we need to be willing to change some of the existing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e2875	I am involved in the Justice budget, and that budget is to ensure security, law and order. It must be both judgment and punishment – there must be money for it – and the rule of law must be built through this budget. Most of all, I am concerned that the Justice Budget is not designed to enable the government to convert the police into the new crime scene in Norway. Traditional crime in Norway is falling, i.e. crime related to violence in open space, profit crime and drug crime. It's an image we see across Western Europe, and it's for all groups, including immigration environments. In fact, juvenile delinquency also goes down if we look at it from a 10-year perspective. But in cases where mainly women are victims, we see a huge increase in reviews. In matters where mainly women are victims, such as rape, family violence and trafficking in human beings, we also see that the system is failing. In the area of family violence, the police have an explanation rate of only 33, and in the area of rape, 80 pst. of the cases closed. Despite ever-increasing appropriations to the police, more police officers and an operating budget to the police of nearly 18 billion. The police are unable to give proper priority to these matters. Despite a clear message from the National Attorney General that such matters should be given precedence over other matters – i.e. in the face of an invasion or running after youth who has hare in their pocket – the police are not able to re-prioritise these matters. We have therefore come to the conclusion that it is time to take some steps to get the police in order to ensure that the thousands of women in Norway who are subjected to violence in close relations get the follow-up they need from the police. We have therefore set up in our budget a scheme in which we want to earmark funds for this area to a far stronger and more detailed extent, so that when the police receive funds, they are not allowed to spend that money on anything other than the investigation of rape, family violence, among other things. We want to have our own groups in each police district that are earmarked for this work, and we have even asked the Minister of Justice – we have done so in the comment – to see if it is possible to use the type of target as a management tool to push police resources more in that direction. We are facing one of the biggest challenges facing all of Justis-Norges, and we in SV believe that Stortinget must take a clearer responsibility and actually go into and direct the police more in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e2888	SV is the party that prioritises our welfare most of all. We give it so high priority that we suggest that the local government sector get over 6 billion. kr more until next year than the government has proposed. We propose this because we want high quality in school, in care, in kindergarten and cultural services, and that municipalities should be good localisation municipalities for business. It also gives room to use professional judgement and trust the employees and freedom of choice for the inhabitants. I have brought with me the Riksrevision's last report on the care of the elderly in the municipalities here, and it should read more before they continue to boast so badly about how good the community economy is. It shows that there are major problems, and one of the problems is recruitment. Then I wonder how you intend to take care of it in the future if you do not have the finances for the entire position, or if the thank you for having trained and stood in this job is to be knocked out in bidding rounds where commercial wins because they are underpaid, and because one pays less in retirement. It is not good use of taxpayers' money that part of our tax money should go to the profit of commercial companies instead of paying the employees that the Riksaudition points out again we have problems recruiting – it is difficult enough as it is today. SV prioritizes distribution. In the municipal sector, I would like to remind you that in the course of the five years, the government has cut over 1 billion. kr in support of municipalities for the most resource-intensive services. And who is it going to go beyond? Well, there are some of the sickest, but there are also some of the elderly and some of the disabled who had needed help, but who don't get it because the municipalities can't afford it. We've discussed child welfare. SV wants to raise child welfare. But if we don't close the possibility that municipalities have of reducing social assistance equivalent to child welfare, the poorest families of children don't get any joy from increasing child welfare. And it must be a cross of thought for more than SV that child welfare is tested just for poverty – that everyone else should have it. We've asked the Ministry of Finance to figure out how much we're taking from these families, and once again, Siv Jensen has told us that it's 410 million. kr per year. Is there anyone who's wondering why they're going to be poor? It is necessary to correct this, and it is necessary to correct the housing shocks, which this government has ensured that there are 50,000 fewer people now getting than it was five years ago. Housing prices have increased and income has decreased. This is unsocial.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e2899	The long-term objective of the government is a sustainable welfare society and a safe Norway. This budget strengthens the well-being of municipalities and the social security network for those who need it most. This is because of a solid economy and a business that dares to bet. Then we can afford good welfare arrangements. I have to remind you that values have to be created before they can be used and shared. Everyone has the right to good growth. Children growing up in low-income families shall have the possibility of freedom and of creating their future. They will be well cared for, stay safe and be able to establish stable friendships in growth. But new figures from the Central Statistical Office show that child poverty is increasing, especially in large cities. Over 50 pst. children living in low-income families are children with parents with a migrant background. One of the most important measures for fewer children to grow up in sustainable low-income families is for parents to come into work. We can never get out of it. More poor families are a direct consequence of increasing immigration from countries where many do not have formal education when they arrive. Among the refugees, we know that it's only 51 pst. having basic education. Then we must not be surprised that it takes time for refugees to get into work and that they have a difficult economic situation. The Brochmann 2 Committee describes it as follows: ‘Increased economic inequality is likely to be an inevitable consequence of increased refugee immigration, even with a focus on education and labour-oriented measures.’ It is therefore necessary to launch a new integration strategy, and that is what this government is doing. I have great expectations that it will work, so that more people come to work. This government has prioritised measures for children from families with persistently low incomes. We have introduced free core time in kindergartens. In my home municipality, Drammen, who has the Right-Rapporteur, there is a free school leisure system and homework in some urban areas with a large proportion of low-income families. The drama was one of the first cities to introduce free core time. So where the Labour Party always thinks about more money, we think, can we use the money smarter? Can we invest them smarter? We have also signed the declaration of leisure. This is a cooperation where leisure activities are to be offered to all children and young people, regardless of the social and economic situation of their parents. It's a collaboration with the municipalities and volunteering.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e2913	The climate crisis is mankind's common challenge. On the same day that Council of State Siv Jensen presented the budget to the Stortinget, the United Nations Climate Panel with nature's debt collection notice came to world leaders: action is needed now. The Labour Party is taking the challenge, and we have delivered a climate and environmental budget that has more than 3 billion. kr more in the pot than the government budget. We have created a climate budget for the period 2021-2030. The climate is not a single matter. The climate is the framework for all things. The climate is not the most important issue for future generations. The climate is the most important issue for all generations, young people old, now and for the future – because the challenge is great. The labour movement takes this very seriously. Sharan Burrow, Secretary-General of the International Trade Union Organisation of the Trade Union Movement, said: «There are no jobs on a dead planet.» And I think we're going to take a little bit of that over us, because there's not going to be much left to do here if we don't get to grips with this particular challenge. In the Labour Party, we see that Norway can help reduce emissions by building a future industry. Finding solutions to technological tasks and reducing emissions is important, but there are also great opportunities to do so within areas by region. Research and innovation are important – cooperation across the whole value chain and across industries – to find the best solutions in the future. The exciting project in the budget now concerns carbon capture and storage, which we have worked to get in place. It is important to maintain progress there, and it is important to make an investment decision as soon as possible. It is also the way that businesses are asking to set up a CO 2 fund. We are impatient that negotiations must take place between the government and industry in this area. Reducing emissions in the transport sector is incredibly important. I also believe it is important that the government takes with it the message that it is actually necessary to trust that the business community can handle this well itself, and not necessarily send the mission to Enova, but that the business community itself can undertake to do that job. Circular economy is incredibly important. The EU is far ahead of our objectives, but it is an area in which we can create many new jobs here in Norway. Therefore, it is important both to put money in the instrument and to rig from linear economy to circular economy. Getting more goods on the keel is important. Then we must also renew short sea shipping. I think climate negotiations are becoming important, and I hope the government is offensive in Katowice.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e2936	Success in integration policy is one of the most important tasks we face in the years ahead. A general goal for Norwegian society must be that everyone who lives here, regardless of their origin, must have the best possible starting point to thrive and to provide the best of themselves into the communities they are part of throughout their lives. Because it is the societies that effectively use their human resources that will certainly become tomorrow's winners. Integration policy in our country has been very good, but statistics still give us a clear message that we have a long way to go. It is therefore very positive that the government has put forward a concrete and targeted integration strategy that has already been included in the draft budget for the year on important points. Of the four main areas of action of the strategy, job opportunities are key. Work gives self-respect and shows the opportunities that our societies can offer. Work provides the best input to everyday integration, to language skills — yes, briefly and well into the Norwegian community. The goal is therefore to find the shortest way from being a refugee to being in work. On the one hand, the road to work is about employers who see the opportunities, and on the other hand it is about our new countrymen and women learning Norwegian, applying to their skills, and acquiring new skills for Norwegian employment. This year's draft budget contains a number of targeted items for this purpose. Ten million. kr to strengthen the Competence plus programme is one example, 3.5 million. kr to the cooperation project Ringer in Water 2 is another. Nav is here to assist the companies in finding labour according to the needs of the enterprises. Furthermore, it is proposed to strengthen the 5 million mentoring and training facilities grant. for more people to fit in with businesses and get a job that is better adapted to their own skills. 25.2 million. kr extra for the reinforcement of Nav’s recruitment assistance is also in the same course. The posts are more numerous, but the ones I have pointed to meet in different ways what seems to be an important potential for improvement in integration policy, namely the extent to which we are able to exploit the competence of immigrants themselves. Here is a knowledge resource that we need to become more competent to exploit in the future. It will serve the Norwegian society – and, not least, it will serve them.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e2956	One of the most important symbols we have on the development of wealth in Norway is that we live so much longer than we did before. The children who were born in the postwar period, peace children, have now too far begun to become pensioners, and in 20 years there will be twice as many older people in Norway as it is today. This is primarily a good thing for all of us, but at the same time fewer children are born in Norway. Today, one in six people who take higher education needs to choose a health profession in order for us to be able to solve the problems in society. In the future, it's one of three, if we continue the same way as today. That's why we have to do our problems in a slightly different way in the future than we've done up to now. One of the grips we have to do is that older people have to stay at home as far as possible, both because they want to live at home, and because we can't have as many nursing homes as we've had in the past. But here it's an important balance that we have to follow closely. You should stay at home as far as possible, but at the same time not too long. You have to be sure that you get a sick home place on the day you need it, and that you don't depend on someone dying to make room for yourself. When you get old, you need security, good health care and a decent care for the elderly. We have to make sure that everyone gets that. We have to bet on nursing homes also in the time that comes, but we also have to build out the entire care ladder. That is why we must bet on the elderly. Then I thought that I would end my post with three nuts for the elderly, as we have gone into December and approach Christmas: The first nut from me is housing. We must have suitable dwellings in which the elderly can live. That means that we have to build a new building, but we also have to adapt the housing stock we have, for example. by investing in lift supplements. The second nut is training and counteracting functional impairment. For what do we do when the health of the elderly may start to fail a little, e.g. If you can no longer sit down on do? Well, then we give them a dose increaser. But to put it a little bit on the top: what they might need is a little bit of training to be able to bend their knees. We must not push them out of the pit – we must help them to stay at home for as long as possible. Then we have to bet on the elderly. The third is the red thread in the Workers' Party's alternative budget, it is stronger community. It's about security, it's about having someone share meals with, and it's about counteracting loneliness. That proposal got the Labour Party majority in our favour, and we are very proud of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e2973	This financial debate marks the sixth civil budgetary agreement in a row between these parties, and it has a recognizable profile. We spend the good time investing in the future, getting more people to work and building a sustainable welfare society. We do that by giving priority to the great money for knowledge, transport, innovation and tax havens. That's what creates growth. Everything suggests that this policy has been successful. We now have the lowest unemployment rate in decades, and since the election campaign, the employment rate has also increased steadily, despite increased immigration and an ageing population. At the same time, the economy continues to grow, and only in the last year, 56 000 new jobs were created, according to the SSB figures. Then it is worth noting that before the election, the Workers' Party launched an ambition of 300,000 new jobs in ten years, i.e. 30,000 new jobs per year. We need a change of pace, was mantra when this ambition was launched. When you know that last year the fasitite was 56 000 new jobs, I think we can safely conclude that 30,000 would have been a change of pace in the wrong direction. It's also worth noting how arguments can change very much in a short time. In mid-October, the representative Gahr Støre said to NTB that child welfare is an ‘obvious grip’ one could discuss in order to combat child poverty. He made it right enough that the Labour Party initially prioritised other bets, but it was just as full an obvious grip he would like to negotiate about. Yesterday, however, the tone was different. The same Gahr Støre could then inform NTB that the increase in child-restraint represented a development where the ‘workline stands for fall’. Then you can wonder what has happened in the meantime. But if we're going to take this seriously, it's $83 per month per child that determines whether the line of work is falling or not, according to the Workers' Party. This comes from the same party that was not so concerned about the line of work as they argued strongly against the obligation of activity for social welfare recipients or our grip on disability reform. It's not very credible. But the positive thing about this word change is that it has helped to clarify a dividing line between the bourgeois parties and the Workers' Party, between those who view freedom of choice for the family as an opportunity, and those who see it as a threat. It might also be a relief reflection, hopefully for both red, yellow and blue in the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e2986	In order to create growth and development, it is important that we be able to put in place an infrastructure that binds this whole country together and that has good, appropriate solutions locally. The aim of the centre party is to provide Norway with safe, efficient and environmentally friendly infrastructure. In 2018, we have made a proposal to set up a separate maintenance programme for the county road network, and in our budget, we will increase the appropriations for the county municipalities by 1 billion. kr and increase the grant of 100 Mio for breed protection on county roads. kr. In order to achieve the Storting's ambition for a comprehensive development of the national road network, it is important that ongoing projects are completed. An example of this is E6 through the Gudbrand valley. The centre party believes that the department should carry out a detailed design and construction start at Ringebu-Otta in Gudbrandsdalen as soon as possible. We've set aside $40 million. kr to start of this project. The many trails carrying goods on Norwegian roads pose a danger to road safety and lead to high road wear and increased greenhouse gas emissions. Several major freight operators have notified of the cuts in freight traffic on the track. A strong commitment to freight traffic will be strategically very important. Regularity needs to be increased, especially in the long distances between parts of the country. The centre of the network will increase the bet on the network by 270 million. kr in next year's state budget, so that we get started with the projects announced in the NTP. Through the railway package IV, the government wants to make several of our routes available on the European market. The railway package has only one objective and it is that railway operations will be subject to tendering for the future. So far, this opening has resulted in the creation of a number of companies and a directorate. Bureaucracies and poor pay and working conditions are the price of a more open market. So we can't compare ourselves to major railway nations like Germany, France and England. Our solution is a power collection about the railway and not fragmentation and disclaimer. The Ministry of Transport has asked the Railway Directorate to investigate the totimer frequency of Oslo-Trondheim. We believe that freight transport and two-time frequency must be seen together. The Dovrebahn is the route where the most freight is transported. Priority needs to be given to capacity-enhancing measures with long cross-rails. The route between Hamar and Lillehammer is the route in the country with the worst capacity and punctuality. The message the train passengers from Hamar get is: stop waiting for crossing trains. In NTP, Stortinget states that intercity is to be expanded with double tracks to Lillehammer by 2034. This year's government budget does not say anything about further planning for Lillehammer. This must be seen in the context of ongoing road construction and the development of freight. It is also most remarkable that the government does not initiate electrification of the Trander Railway and the Meråkerbahn in 2019 either. We've put 150 million in our budget. kr for this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3003	It may be tempting to repeat to the last speaker that, in addition to what he said must have happened in connection with the rail reform, several hundred jobs in the railway bureaucracy have been made more efficient, so that we can rather focus on driving trains. Secondly, we have had tenders on Sørlandsbanen, so much savings that there is reason to question the entire operating concept that has been so far. It means more trains, more passengers and less emissions – and lower costs as well. There is no bad cheek egg at all. For someone who comes from my part of the country, it is good to see that things are going better in Norway. After a relatively rough time when west unemployment goes down, employment goes up, and we see more and more excavators on Bergensbanen, on the City Railway and on the roads in my county – or on the roads that are not there yet. For an industrialised state, the reduction in machine taxes is also a cost of income and investment services. Among other things, I think that this is the case. The central party should remember when they spoke strongly about the investments in mainland Norway earlier today. Nevertheless, a new course is called for, but what course is it really? The most striking thing about the alternatives we are discussing here today is how they crack and how dramatic they crack. Let me do some examples. The centre party will increase the national road allocations, which were just presented. SV will reduce them by 4.8 billion. kr. The working party will not change anything. As a result, the working party has joined that part of the NTP. So it's going to be 5 billion. kr. Child Social Security: The Centre Party and SV will increase. The Labour Party will not because they believe that the grant will not be curtailed, no matter how much you work. This will lead to fewer jobs. It's $1.50 a.m. kr. As far as taxes and taxes are concerned, there are, like, two completely parallel worlds. It's from the Central Party's and Workers' Party's increases of a little over 5 billion. SEK to SVS 21 billion. kr. It's $16 a.m. kr. In the case of car charges, there are also some different worlds. The centre part will decrease by close to 1 billion. kr. SV will increase by 6.3 billion. kr, and the Workers' Party will take the hybrid cars, but not the fossil cars, by SEK 1.9 billion. kr. The tip's at 7 billion. kr – and a very fundamental picture of reality. The center party believes we can withstand higher emissions from the car park, the working party believes we can withstand what we have today from the fossil cars, but not from the hybrid cars, and SV believes it needs to be significantly reduced, and the costs for the families up. In fact, SV gives them a little extra child's health to be able to run the same amount. Within urban growth, the gap also emerges. The centre party is satisfied with today's budget. The working part gives a little bit more, and the SV gives even more. The needle is approx. One and a half billion. kr. In these areas, we see that the opposition lies on both sides of the government, a little bit more on one side and a little less on the other side – together with full confusion. It is not a uniform or clear alternative to today's government. In fact, it almost looks as if the government is in the center of the opposition at times. In this sense, there's nothing realistic about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3026	It was tempting now to take a line to the last speaker. I'll leave that to a possible later evening post. What transport solutions we choose here in the country are very important for two things. One is, of course, the climate aspect, and the other is housing and nutrition development in this particular, long-range and croaked country in which we live. In this article I will talk about the first. When the transport sector accounts for about one third of greenhouse gas emissions, and if we want to take the climate challenges seriously, we simply need to reduce emissions from this. So what are the main sources of transportation? Everyone in the media knows that, and everyone in the transport committee knows it. And the government knows that. And the councils know that. – It’s fossil cars, it’s air traffic, and it’s shipping. What must be done to bring down emissions? Again, the government knows that, and the Storting knows it. But what's the government and the bulk of the population going to do with that? I think everyone understands pretty well where I want to go: they're doing scary little with it. When the government is confronted with no major action being taken, the responsible state councils and the prime minister respond to all environmental organisations and parties by ramming up all the smaller measures being taken. It could be a long series, but it just doesn't last. It does not last — neither to achieve the 2020 climate agreement’s objectives nor to see future generations in the eyes with good enough conscience. The most dangerous thinking of which the government – and unfortunately all the largest parties – suffers is the idea of forecasting. Because car traffic is growing, we need to have more and wider roads. Because air traffic is growing, we need larger airports and more runways. No, that's not what we're going to do. It's sad to see that the majority always answers that way. Norway and the rest of the world are crying out for courageous politicians who are looking and taking hold – away from the tyranny of predictions. We must turn the appropriations from motorways to railways and other collective solutions. We don't have any other choice. We want the railway to connect Norway, not four-field highways and planes. SV will take a real lift for the railway and grant close to 2 billion. kr more to the railway in its alternative budget. But there'll never be railways all over the place. Then it is important for those who have a car, who depend on the car, that many more charging stations are phased in. I also think we need to have incentives for zero-emission cars for a few more years. We don't have any other choices there, either, if we're going to be able to achieve our goals. I would say that this is what is called priorities, with a desired direction in a budget – if we are to meet our climate commitments.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3051	A simulator that tells which operation is the best for the patient, simulation to see how cancer spreads through the body, or advanced streaming technology to measure blood currents around the heart, has at least one thing in common, that these medical advances are developed with the basis of petroleum technology and research within the area. The overriding objectives of research and industrial development in the petroleum sector are to contribute to increased value creation, employment, security and competence. This is important to ensure efficient and efficient use of Norwegian natural resources. But we also need to make sure that we get the most out of the infrastructure that is already established off our coast, where we have invested billions, to pick up resources for even more billions and seven for good and safe jobs and well-being in recent decades. To contribute to the research and development of additional CO2 cut on the cap to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. So someone would claim that fuelling itself is destructive to the environment, but the world needs energy, and we're not yet close to having enough energy from renewable sources in the energy mix that the world needs. But we're on the right track, and more and more of the energy comes from renewable sources. Because now when floating sea winds sail up and can become exciting opportunities for the Norwegian environment of competence, this is a continuation of proven technology from the petroleum industry. When we establish marine farming, we use the same technology, and therefore it is very worrying when some batches go in to cut research media into the petroleum industry. We risk missing out on more efficient and environmentally friendly methods of developing our industry. We are missing out on crossover technologies that have given us budding to very many new ways of feeding, for example, before medicine, space exploration and renewable energy, and we will lose our advantage as one of the world's most highly skilled countries in petroleum technology. We're going to have the petroleum industry with us for many decades, and then we're going to have to rely on it to develop and strengthen our competence. We have to make sure that the product we supply consists of the test being among the world's best and purest as long as we depend on petroleum.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3062	One of the most important things a government budget should do is take the pulse of the time we live in, identify some important and current challenges and propose solutions for the best of all in the country. Although no one has so far mentioned it in the debate, I really hope that everyone here in this Chamber agrees that sexual harassment is a serious social problem. Thousands of women all over the world have put forward what we have known for so long, namely that sexual harassment is fundamentally restricting women's freedom and opportunities. All those who have stood up with their stories deserve to be heard and taken seriously, including in politics. When almost half of all women over 17 years of age say that they have been exposed to unwanted and unpleasant sexual attention, sexual harassment is a social problem that needs to be solved through policy action at the very social level. Sexual harassment is about gender inequality, it's about female/male bias, and it's about job insecurity. Therefore, there was some expectation that the state budget, presented quite exactly one year after the start of the Metoo campaign, would bear some impact on it – that the government in the state budget had spent money on the important work against sexual harassment. Yes, even the government party Left went out in the VG in August with bragging and bram and demanded "#metoo-millions", as they called it. I think most of us thought that it meant that the money was already in place, because a government party went out that way, but no, it was probably the opposite. There was probably one last desperate attempt in the negotiations, because when the state budget was presented, it was without so-called metoo-millions. On the contrary, it is real in the budget of the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman and the Discrimination Department, two of the main front fighters against sexual harassment. It's not on your fingertips. The Minister for Equal Opportunities responded to the criticism by saying that we cannot afford to change our attitude. We certainly have an equality minister with little faith in gender equality policy, because that is what we know after all the great victories for equality we have achieved in this country, it is precisely that equality policy is working. It would have been natural to address sexual harassment in this year's most important political document, but the government has obviously already forgotten what happened in ours. Therefore, SV in its alternative budget proposes a power package with earmarked increase in the fight against sexual harassment, of 44 million. kr. We cannot create a society for the many whose half of the population is systematically detained by harassment.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3079	On the same day that Siv Jensen presented the budget, the UN presented its 1.5-degree report. It showed two things: first, it showed the difference between reaching 1.5 degrees and 2 degrees, and then it showed how far away we are from achieving the climate targets. The world has only a few years to deal with what is the greatest challenge of our time. There were considerable contrasts between the presentation of the UN report and Siv Jensen's presentation of the State budget here in this Chamber. This is really not a government budget that takes into account the seriousness of climate change. In the future, climate must be the framework of all our policies. A finance minister who presents a government budget where plus and minus does not go up, does not do his job. The same must apply in the CO2 financial statements. Climate accounting must be just as important as economic accounts. Therefore, the Workers' Party – unlike the government – has created a climate budget that shows how emissions should actually go down. It's amazing that the government, with all its equipment, can't do the same thing. This is the first government budget left has been involved in making from the beginning. I actually believed that a climate minister from the Left would provide a better climate profile. You would think they would get something left to break their election vows and join a government as a junior partner for the Progress Party. It is difficult to see what is left's footprint in climate and environmental policy. I don't think the state council Ola Elvestuen has got anything that didn't happen to the former councillor Tine Sundtoft. In the agreement, there has only been a smulter of climate policy. They are so small that they have not even received a separate heading in the budget unit. The working party will do it differently. We have made our climate budget, and we have strong budget efforts to convert Norway. It's solving the climate crisis at the same time as investing in the future. Finally, I would like to commend you for one thing in the agreement. It is today that we are making a decision to get palm oil out of biofuels. But it's incomprehensible that the population gives itself a whole year to get it into, at least with the story we know that this case has. Even the proposals that Ola Elvestuen himself has been the author of, he is unable to implement. The working party will be a watchdog for the implementation of the decision. We no longer accept that Norwegian climate policy should bathe in palm oil. Overall, this budget is a lost opportunity for climate policy. That is a pity, at least since it is a majority for a far more ambitious climate budget than what is being adopted today. Unfortunately, the bulk of the population has let the Advance Party and Siv Jensen be the ones who are left with the decisive word. Unfortunately, there won't be much climate policy. But we in the Workers' Party are not giving us, and already in the new year, Stortinget is given the opportunity to vote for the 37 proposals put forward by the Workers' Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3100	The future is electrical, and it's amazing for an electric engineer to say these words. In the transport sector, research has been carried out. Political decisions have been made, objectives have been set, markets have been created, and Norway has the raw material: water and wind power. We can deliver energy using battery or hydrogen. Luckily, no one has tampered with – to say it this way, whether it is a parliamentary expression, I do not know – at least no one has done anything about the fees for the electric car, which is absolutely necessary to maintain the market and make it interesting, while at the same time being a very good environmental measure. Furthermore, we have the ferry operation, which is now taking some time off when it comes to switching to electrical solutions. There are 70 ferries that are now ordered and that will go on battery instead of on today's diesel. Then it's the speedboats. The speedboats may have been the worst in terms of greenhouse gas emissions, and now it may seem that several Norwegian shipyards are involved in the fight to deliver clean speedboats. This has been made clear by the county and state, with climate action schemes and with the support of Enova to produce new technologies, which can be revolutionary, not only in Norway, but perhaps worldwide. It's not just a green shift; it's green growth. With regard to the train effort in Norway, the Left has been involved and contributed to the high level of investment within the NTP. It's only a little over a year since we adopted it, so yes, we're impatient, but we're absolutely sure that the ambitions that lie in the NTP bring the train effort on. The most important thing is that there are several passengers using trains. So it's this thing with planes: airplanes don't account for the big emissions in percent, but we all understand when we fly, that it's a climate hosting. And now there are ambitions from the factories, from the manufacturers Boeing and Airbus, and promises, almost, that the future is also there electric, and we fly high, we electric engineers.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3113	It is good to hear in this financial debate representatives from the special government parties who tell us how well things are going in Norway. And that’s what it does – I’m going to agree that we’re doing great in Norway compared to how you feel in many other countries. But then I might wish we had used the space of action we have, financially, to seal the holes for some of them that don't go so well. It's not going to take so many meters of highway to solve the problem that I'm going to talk about right now. The aim of the SV's justice policy is to ensure equal access to justice and equal access. So it shouldn't be the size of the wallet that decides whether or not you get legal certainty here in the country. That's why we want to strengthen a system where we give free legal aid offered by lawyers, to those who have bad advice, so that they can cover their bills by the public. We will also strengthen and provide more financial support to organisations providing legal assistance or advice. It has to be a legal system for the many and not for the few. This government has failed to meet these objectives. At a time of growing disparities and increasing poverty, especially among vulnerable groups, the government performs to reduce the allocation of free legal aid offered by lawyers. Both in the revised budget just before the summer and in this budget, these measures have been drastically cut. The government therefore believes that there is less use for the free legal aid scheme. At the heart of the matter is that the income limit that determines who qualifies for free legal aid has remained silent for almost ten years. At the same time, wages and social security are adjusted according to inflation and increased living costs. This means that more and more people who have previously qualified for free legal aid are now crossing the income limit. That way, fewer and fewer people will get free legal aid. One of the groups that in practice loses the right to free legal aid is young people who are currently receiving the minimum pension. The basic amount of the minimum pension is today NOK 247 000. There is only NOK 1000 above the income limit for free legal aid of NOK 246 000. So you earn NOK 1000 more – and as you are definitely poor – you lose the right to free legal aid. We feel that the government here is gradually strangling this arrangement for a group that has little money, and that the whole arrangement is actually meant to cover. This strupping weakens legal certainty for people with low incomes. In good Norwegian, this is pretty bad done to this group of people, and it's very petty -- I'll almost call it a mockery -- to those who are the poorest, and in our budget, we do what we can to clean up this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3127	Since 2014, the government has saved more than 900 million. kr to cut support schemes for students. The biggest cut since then comes in this year's budget proposal, where the government cuts the scholarship share by 256 million. kr. Unfortunately, the budget agreement does not correct this. This so-called conversion scheme is going to apply significantly more loans to students who do not complete whole degrees than before. The scheme punishes those who either do not complete a degree or who change direction along the way in the studies. It is a disincentive to get more continuing education, and it is hardly a key to lifelong learning and interdisciplinary learning. It is also at best doubtful whether it will lead to better implementation. Governments have not been able to show any research evidence to improve progress. It's not strange that the sector is in turmoil. The Norwegian student organisation has collected 26,425 signatures against – more than in my entire municipality. 46 organisations and institutions stand behind – all student organisations, many trade unions and, in addition, the Council of Universities and Higher Education, the Academics, the Union and the NTL, to name a few. So from the reading halls to the principal offices, the government is asked to turn around in time and maintain the scholarship. The Labour Party is clearly opposed to this proposal, and we are returning the whole cut in our alternative state budget. We don't use the students as balancing posts, we're not going to raise the threshold for studying, and we don't want a less flexible and more uncertain student support that puts further pressure on hitting the most vulnerable students. Yes, several should complete a degree, but no, those who have resided in or deviated from normal progress should not be punished. The Labour Party is instead focusing on a policy that works – more on continuing education, more on study quality and follow-up – because we take the challenges of study everyday life seriously. We know that the students are different, but they want to succeed. We want to create a good higher education for everyone, we think of good student funding as a supporter of the principle of equal rights to education, and we encourage the government to keep its fingers away from the scholarship.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3138	This autumn I have been given the opportunity to visit many of the prisons in our country. Getting information about both what's going well, and about what's challenging, is always useful, and I really feel that Norway has a criminal care that we can be proud of in many areas, with professionally qualified and dedicated to it. It is good to record that a lot is going wrong in criminal matters. The agreement with the Netherlands was very critical of the opposition, but today we see the result. The prison queue, which was more than 1,200 in 2013, is now in reality gone. Capacity utilisation has gone from close to 97 pst. in 2013 to 88 pst. today. Trials with shared or custom workdays for inmates have produced good results and increased activity in project prisons – an experience we took with us from Norwayrhaven. The number of days spent in prison has increased from 77 pst. under the red-green to over 81 pst. in 2017. I also record that criminal services have significantly increased the monitoring of convictions, which has provided the basis for more targeted and structured repatriation work. However, there are enough challenges to address. The need for maintenance and modernisation of prison buildings is great. Drug and mental health challenges have also been an important theme in recent years. It's been opened for 950 million. DKK for the maintenance of our prisons in the last five years. In the 1st quarter of 2019, a new 30-place female prison will be ready in Europe, and in 2020, the new prison in Agder with 300 modern high-security shelters will be ready to move in. I am pleased that the government, through several budgets, has focused on and facilitated a more rehabilitating offer for the deployments. Health services in prison have been strengthened, both through prison interventions and by strengthening the community and specialist services in general. Health provision is also a priority in the budget for 2019 through the establishment of a new national reinforced community department at Ila prison, a pilot project with a new model of detoxification at Bjørgvin prison and a nationwide treatment provision for persons convicted of sexual assault. In the budgetary agreement between the Right, the Progress Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party, an additional 10 million fresh people have been added to strengthen the crew and content of criminal services and to provide security measures for the addition and insertion. When we choose to drop 250 prison places at a low level of security, it has to be seen that there are now more than 500 settlements empty. We think it's more right to spend close to 50 million. kr to strengthen the health professional content of the zone than to spend 40 million. kr is to finance non-utilised accumulators.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3151	Now it's about Viking ships. Viking ships are of invaluable importance. They are part of our national history, irreplaceable past memories and world heritage. That is why in the Workers' Party we are strongly critical that the government, knowingly and willfully, does not give priority to saving the Viking ships on Bygdøy, which are threatened by acute destruction. We had sincerely hoped that the ships would be secured through the budget agreement. Unfortunately, there was no such thing – and it is common knowledge that the Viking ships are in danger of collapsing. Understandably, the case has aroused both national and international attention. Several media projections have shown that there have been alarming damage to both the Gokstad ship and the Oseberg ship. Rector of the University of Oslo has stressed that the collection is damaged for every day that goes, and that means of securing are necessary to stop serious destruction. The director of the Cultural History Museum describes the situation as very dramatic and is rightly concerned that those who decide the state budget do not understand that great forces are threatening to break down the collection. Extra serious was the fact that the government had not received information in time to get the ships into the state budget. The Communications Director of State Building has rightly rejected the presentation of the case by the Council of State. As she said, all actors have delivered in time. This summer, the University of Oslo sent yet another letter of concern to the Council of State. The government knew, but did not act. So whoever doesn't deliver in this case is the government. The working party understands the seriousness. We have set aside funds in our alternative budget for an emergency rescue package for securing the ships and the alum preserved material in line with the wishes of the museum and the University of Oslo. We also hope that the government will now give priority to saving the Viking ships as soon as possible. Furthermore, we want the government to ensure that the Viking ships are secured for the future and come under the consideration of the Ministry of Knowledge's budget, and we propose that the government return to Stortinget with a plan for securing and preserving the entire Viking ship, including objects, for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3164	The government proposes to remove the benefit for taxis in the weight component of the one-off fee. That goes against the Workers' Party, but unfortunately we are in a minority. Next year's government budget thus provides a dramatic and unexpected cost increase for an industry with many jobs, which is already struggling with profitability. Everyone knows that the taxi has an important role to play in the collective travel offer. The dross helps our society to function, that old and sick people get a transport offer, that children with reduced mobility get to school, and that patients get to a doctor. There are trucks all over the country, and in itself there is a security factor and a social preparedness that we should not underestimate. Right, with the support of the Progress Party, the last year has been attacking the taxi industry systematically and purposefully, and we are many who know why. Because in the government platform it is black and white that they will ‘open up for increased use of the sharing economy in passenger transport’. There is a desire to prepare the basis for companies such as Uber that makes the government much worse the conditions for the traditional taxi industry. Representative Peter Frølich from the Right went out in the Bergensavisen on 9 May and the front to remove the requirement for taximeters and the requirement to be connected to a taxi centre, which ‘allows to make prices too high’. On 19 October, Højres Erik Skutle writes in the Official Journal of Bergen: ‘Tax prices in Norway are among the highest in the world, and in recent years they have increased significantly more than the price of other goods and services.’ Furthermore, he warns the driver in the taxi industry against the Greek taxi owners and accuses the taxi owners of making it expensive to take taxis. The right is doing its utmost to produce the taxi offer as expensive and bad. It will be more profitable to drive a taxi with a government tax increase of 41 million. kr, or will it be cheaper for the customer? Nope. But there are older cars. This means worse cars, and that unfortunately also means more emissions, because there are no alternative zero-emission cars in this vehicle class. The Labour Party warns the Norwegian people against these constant attacks and, unfortunately, we will have the opportunity to debate this when the government makes proposals for changes in the taxi industry next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3184	The center party works for value creation and services near people throughout the country. We want a more living government, better governance and distribution. The power and means must be as close to people as possible, namely in the counties and municipalities. Government parties claim that it is more expensive to work with the opposition parties' proposals for government budgets. To that I will reply that with the proposals of the government parties it becomes more expensive to live and use services around Norway. Fortunately, we had to stop the ‘death fee’, so it won’t be more expensive to die. The government parties say we have to "make cake bigger" to have more to distribute. To that I will reply that it is not in any way a question of extending the municipal and county boundaries. Nor does the distribution of property into society become more social unless property taxes are taken into account by the government so much, much more in taxes. Municipalities will no longer be allowed to walk with when their incomes are thwarted by the government. The merger of coercive counties and all such reorganisation costs is more evident and evident in counties such as Hedmark and Uppland, without the government having taken it into account. In the general debate, a lot of people talked about trust. I wish I knew the confidence in the financial position and in the debate here today. A tax policy that promotes trust, with credible and sustainable rhetoric, is difficult to find. Extra transfers to hospitals and teachers are of little help when efficiency cuts make the bottom line the same. Quality reforms that deal more with structure than with content provide, for example: for higher education now the closure of smaller campers. To get a real bet across the country, the Center Party is adding 150 million. SEK to universities and colleges, 50 million. SEK to specialised schools and 35 million. kr for regional research. This becomes the activity of the whole country. We ensure digitisation with several ICT study places. We ensure doctors with several medical training places, to mention something. Professionals are the ones who are going to build Norway in the future, and we want to strengthen the professions – in fact – with a professional package of 300 million. kr. With that, we need to ensure that we can use the whole country, with value creation and services close to people.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3197	Climate change is leading to more rainfall, more heavy rainfall and extreme weather. So we must be prepared for more frequent floods and escapes. The NVE has an important task in identifying risks and preventing and limiting damage caused by floods and slips as a consequence of, among other things. climate change. It is important that NVE Facilities have staff with the right experience and competence to advise municipalities and entrepreneurs and to assist in planning. Many municipalities have not carried out danger zone monitoring and can benefit from NVE in land planning to ensure against the risks associated with waterslides and floods. In December 2016, the NVE submitted a report stating that today’s level of funding does not allow many hedging projects to be implemented. Furthermore, the NVE indicates that increased appropriations could lead to a reduction in the cost to society of floods and events, both direct costs for the repair of buildings and infrastructure and the cost of infrastructure disruptions. In addition to this, we know that many people who live and live in flood and racially exposed areas feel a great deal of uncertainty and fear. All experience shows that prevention is wiser and cheaper than ex post repair, which is confirmed and well documented in the Swedish public investigation SOU 2007:60. The investigation shows that the costs of preventing road and bridge damage due to pace, race, degradation and flooding are estimated to be about four times lower than the cost of repair. The need for increased appropriations and their impact is well documented. Therefore, the Workers' Party wants to increase the allocations for climate adaptation and flooding by 150 million. in addition to the Government's proposals. The grants will address climate change and extreme weather, floods and rapids, monitoring, prevention, security, equipment and knowledge. We have to make it easier for the water to find its way into the earth with green, open areas, let trees delay the water and have a wiring network that takes away the precipitation. More rainfall and extreme weather are leading to increased pressures on the water and sewerage sectors, where there is already a major lag in maintenance and refurbishment. The working party therefore proposes 40 million. in addition to the government's proposals for climate action and adaptation in municipalities. The tailoring of national and county roads is one of the main priorities of the Workers' Party in the NTP for the period 2018-2029. The working party therefore proposes 300 million. kr more for protection of national and county roads. We see that there is a great deal of distance between the government's budget and the real need, so we want to increase this by nearly 500 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3210	Of all the challenges we face, climate change is one of the really big ones, which requires both national and international efforts. I am therefore very pleased that the government parties, together with the Christian People's Party, have submitted a budget that takes it just inward. Most people live well here in the country, and it's going well in Norway. We see that companies invest again, and more people come to work. In addition, we are experiencing a decline in greenhouse gas emissions, while growing. It does not come of itself, it has been and is a conscious commitment to environmental and climate action from this government. More than ever, we see that in order to avoid climate change that will lead to an increase in floods in several places in the world, which will lead to more drought, with damaged crops and food shortages, we need to contribute to the development of technologies that can in the long term replace harmful emissions from coal power plants and from cars and aircraft, at all from emission sources that are harmful to the earth and to those of us who live here. The seriousness of this happened once again when we received the IPCC report in the autumn, which made the consequences and differences visible by slowing down the heating on the ground by one and a half or two degrees. This is why it is so vital to continue the increase in support for Enova, to enable them to enter into the really large projects in collaboration with industry itself to develop solutions that contribute to lower and cleaner emissions. I am still aware of the joy and pride that Hydro in my home municipality, Karmøy, got 1.5 billion. kr in support of a pilot to produce the world's most energy-friendly aluminium. Enova could do that thanks to the increased support at the time from the same parties that agree on the budget today. It's Monser. These are measures that could change the production of aluminium worldwide if successful. This is the right way to go. Environmental challenges of navigability both to land and not least to the sea are also a challenge that requires international cooperation. Here we are increasing budgets to prevent and clean up Norway, and we are also increasing research efforts. In addition, we strengthen climate and environmental action in marine pollution, green shipping and maritime dialogues, etc. on the assistance budget of around €0.5 billion. kr. We reinforce the green shift and adapt to a future working life by investing heavily in research and innovation. Our budget takes inwards that we should preserve our well-being also for future generations.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3227	Older people must have a safe and dignified old age. It's a heart issue for me and the Progress Party, and it was also in the 2017 election campaign. As former local politicians, people are very excited about how the day-to-day life of the Stortinget is going to be. What you work for every day is that the Progress Party will get the best and the best possible impact on its affairs. When I now put in my second budget debate here in this room, I do it with pride. With the Advance Party in government, we facilitate increased security, quality and capacity in the service provision of the country's elderly. The state funding experiment is now expanded, both in time and by the number of municipalities. The aim of the experiment is to see whether state funding of care services increases non-discrimination across municipal borders and provides a more appropriate response to needs. The municipalities participating in the experiment report back on good experience and promote increased user involvement, more frequent and better decisions and better interaction in the municipality. The councillors and the administration, who were skeptical about participating in the project, today have a completely different description of reality, so for many years, the party's battle cause is a success. I think it is sad that my own home town, Bergen, voted down the proposal when the Progress Party and I promoted it in the city council in its time, especially perhaps when you look at the neighbouring municipality of Os, which success state funding has been right there. However, this is only reflected in the range of good proposals and initiatives that the Labour Party has voted down, which could make everyday life easier for our elderly and caring people. I hope many municipalities will now search the round that comes. The Progress Party has arranged for a total of 13 100 happy days care places since 2014. In the budget for next year, we are proposing more and better places of care for lucky people. We do this at the same time as we have reduced taxes and taxes, and that's for most people. Unlike when the red-greens crashed the country, the state now takes half the bill. In addition, the VAT compensation means that the State assumes up to 70 pst. the costs of building or refurbishing the nursing places of the lucky day. The incentives for municipal politicians to build more and better nursing homes for our elderly have never been better. In conclusion, I would like to say that it is incredibly fun to stand on this platform when a case has been raised repeatedly locally, which has been voted down, becomes a reality nationally – and it is the senior representative. I think today, it's the older people who cash in perhaps one of the biggest victories.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3246	A safe working life is a premise for a society in which there is room for everyone, but I also see the need to remind the government that a safe working life must fit into the hands of a safety net that can take care of all those who, for different reasons, need sick pay, care or daily allowance once in a lifetime. It's just this point that has gotten the multiplication tables to go up every year. It is a safe working life together with a well-functioning safety net and good social security systems that have made Norway the world's most productive country for several years, and that we have been able to include as well as we have. This is completely unintelligible on the right-hand side of the table, and the most unlikely is that their only answers are tax havens to the richest, because it's supposed to be magically creating more jobs. This hides the argument that the welfare state needs to become more resilient. We now see that this is not working. The unemployment rate is falling at a rather slow rate, but it really doesn't look like a growth in the economy or such a decline in unemployment that I bought it for 25 billion. kr. Because that's what the community has paid 25 billion. kr in various welfare measures for a small reduction in unemployment. There are very many students, disabled people, pensioners and low-income families who really get involved in this policy. In order for us to have a society where everyone is taken care of, a society for the many, and not just for the lucky ones, we need to use the money in a smarter way than to give taxpayers to the richest in Ring 3, the rich that obviously have no better to do than a lawsuit against their municipality for a few sharp thousand notes – the thousands of notes that, with SV's distribution policy, have really shown the inclusion of a high class.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3255	Trade is a cornerstone of value creation, and the Progress Party will have the lowest possible taxes and charges and a freest trade precisely to facilitate the Norwegian trade industry. Our ambition is to reduce taxes and taxes even more, and after hearing the Central Party here today, you can get the impression that the Center Party also wants to reduce taxes and taxes for people most, and that Norwegian business also means something to the Center Party. Nordics traded in 2017 for 23.7 bn. kr in Sweden. This is money that should have been left in Norwegian stores. Professional reports in this area refer to the high level of Norwegian fees and high Norwegian customs duties on imports of food, which make border trade in Sweden likely to increase in the coming years. The biggest difference is the price difference for tobacco and alcohol, but also for milk, cheese and eggs. Tobacco is 46 pst. Cheaper in Sweden than in Norway and often with alcohol is what makes people cross the Swedish border. The centre party has on several occasions been concerned about border trade, but in its alternative state budget chooses to increase tobacco and alcohol taxes by more than 400 million. kr. I think a lot of people are sitting with a question about whether the Central Party actually believes that this is a handshake for business, for Norwegian jobs and against border trade. I don't. Nor does it do business, which, with the proposal of the Centre Party, would risk seeing even more customers running towards the Swedish border. If we are to ensure the most jobs in Norway, we must make our business competitive. Then there is no increase in taxes and taxes that are the right tool. Some may think that more people will be tempted to invest in new Norwegian jobs if taxes and taxes are greatly increased. But as far as Norwegian business and border trade are concerned, it has to be rhetorical, because at least it is not in practical policy. People most, workers and Norwegian business should be happy that it is not the Center Party that, together with its red-green comrades, governs the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3266	The climate and the environment are a lot of people talking about, and I'm going to follow up a little bit. Among the measures that the Advance Party and I would like to highlight are: the phasing out of palm oil in biofuels. There the government is now doing a very good job, and sometimes it is good to have a helping hand from Stortinget. Marine litter has become one of the biggest environmental problems the world is facing today. The main problem is where plastics run out into the sea and the large quantities are beyond Norway’s borders. Then we also have to put the resources there, and I'm very happy with the bet that we're doing now, where 400 million. The aid budget is intended to prevent emissions and waste management in the countries concerned. This is something the Progress Party has fought for, and I think it is a clear Progress Party win. The Progress Party is concerned with results, and spending aid money on something as concrete as cleaning up our oceans is a good example of targeted and performance-oriented environmental policies. Climate concerns many, myself included. But I have to admit that many times I worry equally about the desire for symbols instead of results. The government has a big investment in climate. It sounds like we're not doing anything, and some people even promote distrust because of lack of climate action, but the truth is that one should look a little before a finder who rates at the same level. Where are we today? Today, it is the Paris Agreement that is leading, and a new agreement between Norway and the EU will be leading the way in the future. This agreement shall be negotiated by Norway in 2019. The difference between the Paris Agreement and previous agreements is that this applies to all countries, poor as rich. GDP, or gross domestic product, is to be taken into account – that is, rich countries will have to cut more than poor. Again, looking at Europe, Norway expects to be required to cut around 40 pst. a country that Romania receives a 22 pst cut and Bulgaria is not required to cut at all. One does not have to travel to either Bulgaria or Romania to understand that if the target is reduced emissions at the most efficient price, it is necessary to introduce mechanisms to reduce emissions in Romania and Bulgaria. 40 pst. Cut in Norway is expensive, and it is not effective. 40 pst. in Bulgaria, large cuts are made at less cost. It's not cheaper for Norway, it tends to hurt a little less, but it causes a lot of emission reductions. Then you have to be allowed to ask what the goal is. When the Workers' Party has to take all the emissions at home, regardless of price or result, it cannot use up to 19 billion. kr more than necessary in the next 10 years [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3280	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3285	Several government representatives are calling for the municipalities to have a liberal status now and for the police to be very strong under the government of Solberg. The fact that the police themselves in the districts say that they have to cut down, that they have issues that lie ahead, is almost produced as fake news and a closed ear. The finance minister said that one is approaching two policemen per thousand in the whole country – I repeat: in the whole country. I don't think it's gonna work in fact check. The police districts are tired, and only Oslo and Finnmark have over two. The other counties are far below that goal, in the west about 1.5. I want a little bit of property tax, the only tax that the municipalities decide on. I asked the representative of Greece what the representative meant was the reason why right-wing municipalities had increased the property tax by 155 million. NOK 2 in 2 years. I don't think it's to bother the inhabitants, but because one wants better services. The answer did not come. Therefore I ask again: I believe the government that Right-Handed municipalities introduced and increased property tax for 155 million. kr to bother the inhabitants, or do they agree with me that it is to improve the services? Then it's probably time to admit that it's actually not so much a liberal local economy anyway. But in recent years the government has been afraid of tax conversion and in the year of the Maritime Fund, so that the income of the municipalities has been higher – lucky there. The opposition is talking about common goals here today, stronger communities and smaller differences, but what are the characteristics of the government party? There is not much enthusiasm and glow in the light bulb, at least. For example, in his statement, the representative Asheim presented contributions from the conciliation and hardly anything from the budget to his own government. Then it is the old office, which is the big say of the Progress Party in the budget, but it costs two bottles of wine. A proposal today I have to admit I have a great deal of sympathy for, is to say that the municipalities cannot subtract from child welfare in social welfare. But what happens with such a measure is that one only lowers the rates. That's precisely why the Worker's Party is going in and wants a more targeted bet for those who already have at least one. The rates are different from the municipality to the municipality, depending on the location of the costs and needs, and the situation is different for all families with children.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3298	Right Henrik Asheim says that with this budget they secure the country for the future and the sustainability of the welfare society. There are other words to increase the differences between people and cuts in welfare schemes. For us in the Workers' Party, the most important thing is a strong community, where we take care of those who need it, when they need it, and that those who have the most contribute the most. Furthermore, he says that the most important thing in Norway is to have a job to go to. For us in the Workers' Party it is not enough to have a job to go to. It's just as important to have a salary to live on. That is why the fight against social dumping and against more temporaryity and involuntary part-time is a priority for us. It is the employees who contribute to value creation and innovation. Therefore, good pay and working conditions and a good working environment are crucial. We want us to stand up for each other when you get sick or your company goes bankrupt, that employees get their skills renewed, and that the district gets an equivalent infrastructure. For the Workers' Party, it is disappointing to see that the government's draft budget does not address the major challenges we face. We are seriously concerned about increasing social dumping, while several companies in the district are concerned about the lack of recruitment and competence. The answer is not increased competition with foreign enterprises, more temporaryity and reduced trade union deductions. It is not a single measure that works, but the sum of several, in close cooperation with the social partners. When the police suspect that there are slave contracts in Båtsfjord, or when we hear about foreign truck drivers who live and sleep in the car, with a salary of less than 30 kroner an hour, we have to act. It is good that the Minister of Industry recognizes that this is not enough. But unfortunately, we see that next year's government budget will also be a budget for smaller communities and greater social differences.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3309	I must be allowed to say that I am much more satisfied with the debate today than it was a year ago. One reason, of course, is that the Labour Party talked very little about the climate and the environment in the debate last year, and has talked a lot about it this year. I think that's a pleasure. This means that climate, energy and the environment are obviously more important than ever. It has shown us in practice this year as well. I'm the head of the Energy and Environment Committee. I think all the members of the committee have been on the platform talking about energy and climate. In very many posts I hear it. I'm very happy about that, because we're facing some major challenges. For the left, we hope to get into this situation – that more than us and the Greens and the Greens will spend a lot of time talking about this, and also put a lot of effort into taking action. We've been through a year where we've been negotiating both for foreign tables and for cleaner energy across Europe, but also for goals by 2030. We're going to cut 40 pst., and we're going to do it in cooperation with the countries around us, our neighboring country. It is the Nordic countries that are the most offensive, which introduces the most measures, and which are the best in the class to cut emissions. In Norway, we point out that the electric car bet is successful – and there are many countries around us that also point to it – but there is still a big task of replacing the car park in the future. So we have to keep pace up, both replace cars and replace fuel. One of the discussions over the last few years about blending biofuels will work. Now we know that it works, because it cut emissions by 10 pst in 2017. It's true that we have to get the palm oil out, and we have to get other biofuels into the tank. Last week, a happy message came from Biozin in Åmli, with Preem on the team, who will invest 3.5 billion. kr in forward-looking climate policy: blending more biofuels produced in short-range Norwegian wood. We're on our way. In these days, climate negotiations are opening up in Katowice. We're going to get a rulebook, so international work is also incredibly important. We have set out 2018 to make some important agreements, such as putting together a rule manual. We will probably also have an agreement with the EU to link to their emission targets by 2030. The Climate Risk Committee shall present its report in December. Given that all this is going to happen, it's possible to step up the ambitions. I hear other parties now want it. I should also like to remind you that we have passed a climate law in Norway. The agreement with the EU requires us to report. So talking so much about this in the context of the budget – at least we have to start reporting, both to ourselves and to the EU. That's where we'll show you the measures. It is important that we prepare for this in 2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3324	Most of us don't get most of our services from the state. We get healthcare, school and care for the elderly from municipalities, and if the municipalities are to have the opportunity to provide good services to people and to facilitate the creation of even more jobs, we need a good community economy. That is why the Right in Government has provided a significant strengthening of the local economy. Also for 2019 we get a growth in the municipality's free revenues of 2.6 billion. kr. We have record-breaking ROBEK municipalities, and we assume it will be even fewer next year. It shows that local government is doing well in Norway, and that they have good conditions to provide good services to people. When the Workers' Party may have realized that the horrors of how it would go with the local economy if the Right came into government have been made a shame by the government, it seems as if they are trying to figure out some alternative storytelling in order to blackmail the situation. For example, the representative Sivertsen chose to criticise the government in the change in line with the Council of State Monica Meland for increasing the tax estimate, leading to a slight decrease in the percentage growth in the free income of the municipal sector for 2019 compared to the estimate we received in May this year. I had not imagined that the Workers' Party would criticise the government for increasing tax revenues and for more people coming to work. No matter how the Workers' Party chooses to twist and reverse the story they try to tell, it is nevertheless right that the government chooses to give the entire $2.6 billion. kr in growth in the free income of municipalities for 2019, which means that municipalities still have plenty of room to provide good services to people. It's also not funny, as the representative Heggø from the Workers' Party is trying to present it as, it's about a conscious priority of strengthening those who are going to provide services to people. Regardless of that, I think that this whole debate reveals how the Labour Party and the other parties on the left-hand side completely ignore the fact that values actually have to be created before they can be distributed – because no matter what the question is, the solution is that the public should spend more money, and that people, businesses and entrepreneurs should pay more taxes than today. The policy of the left will make Norwegian business less rusty in the face of international competition, and it will not be sustainable in the long term. Rather, we have to make arrangements to create more. We do that by building more ground, investing in research and innovation and letting people and businesses keep a little bit more of their own money. That work is already well under way by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3335	Three billion. kr is the Strengthening of the Hospitals of the Workers' Party for 2019. That's what's needed. At Agder, the board of directors of the Sørlande Hospital was told earlier this year that it had to be saved between 200 and 300 million. kr in the years to come. While the government and the Christian People's Party's proposal for a budget for hospitals were largely eaten up by what is well called demographic development, the Workers' Party's proposal would give real opportunities to bet on giving us faster and better help when health fails. In November, the board of directors of the Sørlande Hospital was informed that the queues for the first consultation and the number of deadlines had increased. ‘2000 more in a two-year hospital queue’ was the title of the fatherland friend. ‘The cows are increasing and we are unable to get away from them’, said the director of the hospital. In 2015, the newborn ward at the hospital in Arendal was closed. These patients are now to be sent to Kristiansand. Unfortunately, there are a lot of births where you don't know in advance that it's going to be a risk birth. So far, the Children's Department has helped stabilize these sick newborns before sending them to Kristiansand. Now it has to be cut at the hospital in Arendal, and it is announced that the Children's Department will take part of these cuts. Then there may be even less resources to follow up the newborns who have had a demanding start in their lives, and their mothers. Is that how we want it? From the new year onwards, a package of mental health protection is being introduced. Now in these Christmas seasons packages are something you look forward to. Some have probably been tricked into childhood to open packages of fine paper around, but which have been shown to be empty. Unfortunately, this is the same with these packages. The idea of its own longitudinal coordinator, better individual follow-up and closer cooperation with the municipality is good, but then it has to follow resources. Good, overall follow-up is the Workers' Party for. But this fall I have had despairing users and professionals in my office who tell me that they want to, but they do not get the resources that would accompany the introduction of the package sequences. This is the situation in today's Health Norway. Of course, our healthcare system is very good. But if we were in goal, there would have been no reason why we were going to debate this tonight. If we are to get closer to the goal, the Workers' Party believes that the big money must be used to solve the big problems. We have set up our budget after that. Unfortunately, the government parties and the Christian People's Party ensure that we do not get the effort we needed to solve the challenges facing our common health system in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3348	Still more people are at work. The registered unemployment rate is below the average unemployment rate for the last 20 years, and the unemployment rate has not been so low in 10 years. Government policy works. The rise is broad and companies invest more — both inside and outside the oil sector. With the pheasant in hand, it can be said that the Workers' Party slogan «too little, too late» was an inconclusive slogan, and the party itself has parked its own slogan. I note that the representative, Mr Kaski, and so far as representatives from the Workers' Party are concerned, are still within these states. What would SV have to pick on if it hadn't been for these kingdoms? Many of them have started with two empty fists, pledged houses, established businesses, provided jobs, taxed corporate profits and taxed dividends, and employees have taxed their wages. There are such entrepreneurial people the Kingdom needs more, and no more tax-hungry socialists. The representative of Kolberg was inside the Defense and the Army in his post. The army does not live a life isolated from the other Defense. The task of the big business is to connect a defense that the common operation is the best. That is why the Army must be seen in connection with the other defenses. Kolberg’s claim that the Army has been treated almost unanimously has no root in reality. A new artillery is purchased for the Army, equipment is purchased for electronic warfare, new trucks are purchased, and air defence is purchased. I dare remind you that in the long-term plan for the defense it is set by 25 billion. SEK for material investments in the Army by 2025. The representative of Kolberg was within the 2-percent limit. The government's policy is on a bad track towards the 2 percent. The share measured in relation to gross domestic product is increasing, despite a small ‘dip’ now in 2019. The government has spent $8 billion. kr more on the defence in its long-term plan than the red-green government laid down. Finally, if you make yourself tall and dark and want something far more than the government in terms of 2 percent, you should add more than 300 million. kr to a defence budget of 59 billion. kr. And it doesn't look like the decimal in the fraction after the decimal point.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3361	Minister of Knowledge Jan Tore Sanner used parts of his post to tell us that he had read the SV's alternative government budget. I think that's a good sign, and I guess it's not entirely clear that he has to take this voice seriously from the north. But unfortunately, this is just a desperate attempt to turn attention away from its own failed school policy. The teacher is the main single factor in the student’s development in school. Despite cross-political agreement on the importance of qualified teachers, the lack of teachers has increased dramatically — dramatically — in recent years. The number of persons employed in teaching positions who teach at school without approved teacher education has increased by 40 pst. under the bourgeois government. The consequence is that for 1.5 million school hours, children and young people are taught by non-educated teachers. And not just that, but the whole 7.6 pst. Of these, which equals 5,461 people, come straight from high school. At the same time, separating 33 000 experienced teachers by giving retroactive force to the requirements of competence for education, as this government has done, is not just a scandal but a mockery of the entire teaching class. The price tag for further training of these 33 000 skilled teachers with many years of competence – the whole of Norway’s superteacher Håvard Tjora is one of them – is a pointless use of resources for empowerment that SV will end up with. In our budget, we assume that the separated teachers are still qualified for work at school without being forced into expensive further education. In addition, the government's symbolism policy does not allow motivated students with a high cross-sectional character to begin their teacher training. Since the recording requirement in mathematics was introduced, Norwegian school has missed out on 1,800 teachers. Developments are going in the wrong direction without the government taking any action. The Socialist Left has therefore proposed in our alternative budget to allocate 210 million. kr to a national initiative to recruit and retain more teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3380	This budget takes Norway in the basic right direction, and I am pleased that a large majority will support it. After hearing the debate today, the opposition almost gives the impression that the welfare state is collapsing, but the reality is that school, hospital, police and care for the elderly are being strengthened year after year. We have doubled the budgetary effort towards marine pollution, which is important for the Progress Party. There, we think locally, with voluntary teams and associations and strict national rules, but not least, the Progress Party has previously also been able to make use of a greater share of the aid budget to combat marine pollution. Because, like climate challenges, this challenge is global. At that point, too, Norway is on the right track. Emissions go down, efforts go up, and there is no pain in the population with the climate charges on the left. We use, among other things: Norwegian gas to replace European coal, and it is good both for the state budget and for the climate. But the big winner this year, as in previous years, is nevertheless road and traffic. I think everyone in here knows the numbers: about a double in NTP, increase every year, lower toll percentage and more efficient road development. With the danger of getting tough, I even think that the big business representatives from the Workers' Party and the Centre dream of the Progress Party's policy on transport when they lie down at night, and that's all there is to it. In addition, taxes and charges are reduced, including: taxes on property. A normal family has received a tax return of NOK 11 000 since 2013. You have to have pretty good advice that NOK 11,000 doesn't have much to say. Many people think it's funny to break down the tax haven to what you get in tax dollars in a month, or a week or maybe in a day, to try to make it comical, and say that it's just a Snicker's a day, or what it might be. But the difference is that you don't get the tax code once, just one day. You get it every day, 365 days a year, all your life. So really you should multiply it out in a life cycle, at least in a working life perspective, and if you're 30 years old in work and multiply it by 11,000, you get 330,000 in taxes, and then we haven't even included future taxes. So I'm happy to stand on this platform when we're at 1 million, and I could say that's what we've given in treasures to a normal family. In any case, this budget is taking Norway in the right direction, and I think most people agree with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3393	The Christian People's Party is pleased that we have reached a budgetary union with the government parties this year, which has once again strengthened the efforts of children in kindergarten and primary school. Improving the quality of kindergarten is an investment in children's experience of being seen and taken care of. The children get to meet adults who have time and who can arrange for good offers that take care of all aspects of the child. I guess I'll give you 260 million. kr to the standard is an important contribution to filling the norm in kindergarten with a content. Also the next stage of the escalation plan towards a teacher norm that can give each teacher more time to look and follow up on each individual, both professionally and socially, is an important and great commitment to the children. Over many years, teachers and parents have asked for more resources to do the job they are employed to do. Too many teachers have chosen to quit the teaching profession because they felt that the tasks were too many compared to the resources they had. When primary school starts in August 2019, resources shall be allocated to all schools of the country in line with the teacher’s standard of 15 students per teacher from 1st to 4th stages and 20 students from 5th to 10th stages. Conditions have been established to enable the school to provide more adapted training in a better way than before, and more people are given the professional and social assistance each needs in order to be able to experience mastering in everyday life. But this is not just about the individual student being better cared for. It is equally important to create a social community that facilitates inclusion and prevent exclusion. Then we recognize that many more teachers are still needed in the years to come in order for each student to meet qualified teachers. There is therefore a clear need for more new measures to ensure better recruitment to the teaching profession, especially for the first to fourth stages. The introduction of a new mentoring system into the next year’s state budget for the newly educated teachers is an important measure that is likely to facilitate the transition between education and practice. We have every reason to believe that this will make more people stay in the teaching profession. Together with the introduction of the norm and economic stimulus for completion of training, this action will lead to improvements in the recruitment of the profession over the next few years. However, there will still be a need for more and new measures, which the government has also agreed to continue working on and putting in place. Together with the first child-rearing increase since the mid-1990s and with bets on children and children's families, we have received a budget that clearly indicates that we are betting on children and families in the cooperation we have now committed in the budget between the Christian People's Party and the government parties. It's an important step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3405	It is reasonable that the sustainability of the welfare society is a review theme in the financial debate. The challenge is that sustainability needs more people in work. The government has therefore launched an inclusion tool to ensure that more people enter the labour market. It's a good thing for the individual and for society. It is an important priority for a government that believes in the value of the individual's contribution to its own life and to the community. That's why you have a big focus on those who fall outside, especially the young. As you know, a large focus gives a rather diffuse image, at least a slightly sharp image. So let's have a sharper focus and also include the older part of the population, that's us old. We've become a problem, because we've become so old and so many. «Currency» and «tsunami» are not promising words. But we've become so many just because we're living longer, and that really gives us a slightly different perspective. And not only do we live longer, we're viable too. Part of the sustainability solution is to have a keen focus on how those who will continue to work as long as they have something to contribute can do so. I am therefore pleased that the social partners and the government were aiming for an agreement on a new pension scheme for the public sector. The new pension system ensures individual increased options and benefits if you are more at work. From 2020 onwards, all years until the age of 75, count in pension benefits for those born in 1963 and later. As you can see, it's not my own thing I'm talking about. The government's employment policy includes more people in the workplace. In cooperation with the parties, we shall provide several older opportunities to continue working as they experience meaning. With the 2019 state budget, we are building on a sustainable welfare society.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3418	When Section 2 of the Constitution states that Norway has a Christian and humanist cultural heritage, that our value base should continue to be based on it, and Section 16 refers to the Norwegian Church as a law-enforced church of the people, there is a special obligation on the state to support it as such. As a popular church, the Norwegian Church represents a social institution that goes beyond the role of religious society. With hundreds of years of history as a rallying point and community glue in urban and rural areas, the Church of People has played an important role in human life through generations, and continues to do so, both in sorrow and joy. Church buildings and church work are embedded in communities throughout the country. The Church is present with qualified personnel on standby in the event of crises and deaths. Church personnel carry out mental care and care work in response to different needs and target groups. Faith training, which was previously provided by the school, is now provided by the Norwegian Church. The church is also a cultural institution and a cultural arena in villages and cities, with the church building as an important identity marker. For the Christian People's Party, the Church and other religious communities are crucial contributors to a well-functioning civil society. That is why we are very pleased that we have been able to reverse the government's cut both to the Norwegian Church and to other religious communities. The Christian People's Party did not just reverse the cut in the donation to the Norwegian Church of 56 million. kr, which would mean cut in performance positions, but we increased the allocation to 70 million. kr, so that the Church can continue to expand its important diaconal and social building work across our country. An important part of the cultural heritage of the People's Church is the material heritage that we have in church buildings. Many of these old, beautiful, historical buildings are marked by a significant maintenance need. That is why the Christian People's Party, through the budget negotiations, has put in place 10 million. kr to prepare a conservation programme for the stone churches, which is particularly vulnerable. The Christian People's Party has also secured 10 million. kr for climate protection of exposed church buildings. In a society that is constantly changing, we need solid anchoring. The Church and our Christian cultural heritage are a very important anchor for people throughout our long-term country. That is why the Christian People's Party will continue to work to ensure that politics recognises and supports the social building role of churches and churches for people's everyday lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3433	First to the last three speakers: Astrid Køklebie Heiberg spoke of older people as a very important resource. So I agree with those degrees, and that we have to organize the maximum for more older people to work is top. Geir Jørgen Bekkewold is also a wise politician to whom it is really worth listening. I should otherwise have wished that more had listened to him a while ago. We support the strengthening which the Christian People's Party has fortunately achieved in relation to the Church. But then it was the representative of Gisle Meininger Saudland, of the Progress Party, who came before the other two. He talked about this being a budget in the right direction. Then I fell off. Then I will use Uppland and Hedmark as an example – for future calls the Inland, not as desired and on purpose, but we thrive well and are quite alike in many ways. But at least we would get 270 million. kr more to the local government sector in the Inland, almost 200 million of which. kr to the primary municipalities. So it would be 80 million. kr more to the Hospital Inland, which has a very laborious economy. It's not just about the government feeding hospitals, but it also has something to do with us having a structure that we have to do something with, both professionally and economically. This is a total of 350 million. kr that we lose, in relation to what we would get with the Workers' Party's alternative budget. The soul of my homelands, where the bonality is at its best, is accounted for relatively much money. If we also add what we have to tailoring, to the fixed medical system, which is in crisis, and not least if we look at what we have to expand broadband, which is five times as much as the government has, and start to sum this up, I'm going to think that maybe we're going to go 400 million. kr. When you get this over the year, we lose a lot of money in the interior. I have to say it in one word: irritable. 70 pst. by the voters in the Inland want red-green rule – but unfortunately we do not rule over the rest of the country, only the Inland – so we have good predictions. I hope that we can help to ensure that the current government gets a real boost at the municipal elections next autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3448	A lot has happened to society's view of violence against women in the last 20 years. This is no longer the family's problem alone; it's a social problem that's often talked about in different forums. Talking about violence in close relationships and giving attention to the theme helps to eliminate the silence, shame and guilt, which may be the worst scavenger that victims of violence are subject to. A targeted effort is being made by this government in the fight against violence in close relations. Through the near-police reform, we have gained a wider professional environment, with a broader competence, which raises the investigation of these kinds of issues. In addition, the police are working more systematically to increase the quality of the investigation. The action plan against violence in close relations included: Project November established at the Stovner Police Station. This provided targeted assistance from several professionals under the same roof. In addition, we have set up twelve support centres for crime victims, one in each and every police district. This is a very important offer to victims of crime, so that they can get help and assistance while the criminal proceedings are in progress. As we all know, it can be very stressful for criminals. There is also a lot of research on violence in close relationships. For the period 2014 to 2019, a research programme has been established in which studies related to violence against the elderly have so far been carried out. The programme is now being continued for a new five-year period. A selection of experts has also been set up to look at partner drops. They're going to go through all the killings over a selected number of years and they're going through it with input into how we can prevent partner killing. We also put great emphasis on the plan of escalation against violence and abuse, where it is set at no less than 800 million. kr for various measures. This year's budget further strengthens the fight against violence in close relations. Together with the Christian People's Party, we have allocated a total of 50 million. for the investigation of violence against children and the state children's home. Of these means, we have also earmarked funds for prosecution, which we know can be a bottleneck in the investigation. It's a long way to go when you're going to solve a social problem, but we're on the right track.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3465	There are some stories that need to be corrected. My experience from the Transport Committee is that almost no matter what kind of questions the Minister of Transport has received, he has referred to all the roads that are built, without telling us that it is a follow-up to the national transport plan of the Red-Green Government. Also in this government's NTP, very many important bets have moved over to the last half of an NTP that has been extended by two years compared to the previous NTP. And a lot of business is at a county road, but unfortunately the government parties will not be on the Center Party maintenance program for the county road network in line with the recommendations of the trade unions. Neither will the government be in favour of the Center Party’s proposal to improve the provision of air services throughout the country through changes in air charges. During the examination of that case, reference was made to the JELUEA declaration and an assessment of how the air charges could be restructured. The government's proposal was minus $8. This led Nordland Højre’s representatives to go out to the media in the north and order lower charges on the short-haul network, because Onkøe is laying down a number of commercial air routes in the county on grounds of unprofitability due to a high level of charges, and it becomes too expensive for ordinary people to fly. Nordland Höjre’s representatives point out that the level of charging on the short-haul network has increased significantly in recent years, and on top of this came the introduction of the air passenger charge. According to the opinion of the Right, the decline is far too small to be effective, and the Right considers that a reduction in the tax burden needs to be made soon for aeroplanes with less than 50 seats operating on the Short Range Network. This has been included in the Centre's alternative budget by exempting aircraft below 20 tonnes from the passenger charge. It is also desirable to carry out a review and adaptation of instruments on the short-haul network in order to achieve profitable commercial operations with modern material, lower prices and better air services for the population, and to assess whether the purchase of multiple FOT routes by the State can be an alternative to the commercial operation of short-haul routes. These are very important things, and it's completely in line with what the Center Party wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3476	It's scary in the Chamber today to hear the right side talk about the Labour Party's tax policy, because it's going to be very wrong. Some basic facts: Norway is on the OECD average in corporate tax. Countries with the lowest tax rates often receive more profits than actual value creation – what we want is people in jobs and capital in production. The Workers' Party does not increase company tax from 2018 to 2019. We've gradually lowered it from 28 pst. to 23 pst. in line with the tax settlement. Down, we don't see any reason to go. Norway does not need to participate in a competition for the lowest tax in Europe. It loses all countries, and it has never been a goal for the Workers' Party to make Norway a tax haven. According to the tax director, 60 pst is paid. of all corporate taxes on large multinational companies. They pay off their profits created in Norway, and there is nothing unreasonable about it. So for income tax: Most people get tax cut with our tax bill for 2019, both in relation to the government's proposal and in relation to the settlement. Why? Yes, because most people make less than 750,000 dollars. Then you get a lower tax on your income with the Workers' Party. It's those who make more than 750,000 kroner, who get a slightly higher income tax. If you commute, you get significantly better finances with the Workers' Party. The government has made it more expensive to go to work year after year. An increasing share of the expenditure must be borne by the individual commuter. Kilometer compensation and diet are taxed. The working party will stimulate work, even when it requires commuting. There is no point in how many ministers here today and how many representatives from the Right and the Advance Party are reprimanding our tax system. There won't be anything more true for that reason. This is a bad promise for a clean and factual political debate. Business taxation at 2018 level does not give any cause for concern in business. It does, however, reduce all types of taxes on the right-hand side. In Norway, we have a good tradition of contributing to one of the best welfare societies in the world, with free education, studies and health care. It's a tradition worth taking care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3499	It's going well in Norway. The unemployment rate is now the lowest in ten years, and more jobs are created. We need to use the good times to get more people to work and ensure a sustainable welfare society. Because we have an important management responsibility that generations after us will also have a welfare state to lean on. The most important factor for individual well-being is that one has a safe and secure job. Policy cannot be such that we give up people to be passive social welfare recipients, when many both want and can work. A Salvation Army employee said that their main poverty fighter was Frtex and the possibility of work. A business that creates jobs is a prerequisite. We have to use the good times to include more, but then we have to make sure there are ways in. Temporary employment is an important springboard into working life. In 2015, 1.5 million workers went into a general strike and protested against the government's proposal for general access to temporary employment. The trade union movement and the Workers' Party pointed to a lay-off society and a brutalization of working life. It didn't happen. In fact, Norway has the lowest proportion of temporary employment in the Nordic region, and it has remained stable for the past 10 years. The last labour force survey showed that 52 pst. of the temporary staff to be employed on a permanent basis after one year. Many people get into the world of work this way. That's good, and we need even more work. The grandchildren of today's pensioners must stand longer in work to get the same as their grandparents. We have an administrative responsibility to ensure that they too have rights. Then we can't shut people out of work based on CV, age, gender, function and other prejudices. I still hear that if older people are going to work longer, they need to get easier work. It's a rough generalization and it shows how easy we put people in booths. Age is not a good indicator of function – rather gender. At XXL, the CV and yesterday don't matter. There's the motivation that counts. That's how a youth gets into the world of work. But there's still room for the elderly. In order to achieve inclusion, we depend on the kind of efforts of the business community, and we need a regulatory framework adapted to the real world. The Norwegian model is an important contributor to this. Tripartite cooperation at its best ensures the balance between safe employment and a competitive business. Fear propaganda leads to fear and mismedication. Because it's going well in Norway. The employment rate is increasing, and we have to use the good times to get more people to work. It ensures a sustainable welfare society.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3516	Tooth health is more than teeth. Dental health is also about physical and mental health. If your physical or mental health fails, we have a system in Norway where the community stands up for you. If dental health fails, we just have it to a little bit. The poor network of Norway wrote in its consultation opinion to the State budget for 2018: ‘In Norway today, most people have good teeth, so it becomes very stigmatizing to lack more teeth or to have large infections. Too many people find it difficult to get a job." The poor network also described a situation where people could save a tooth, but rather chose to pull it. Because as they pointed out, saving a tooth can cost up to $30,000, but if you just pull it, if you don't replace it, it costs about $30 000. $1,500. This government is about to cut 400 million. kr in the support of dental health. Then it goes in the wrong direction. For 2019 they will cut over 50 million. kr, despite the fact that they have said in their government statement that they will gradually extend the arrangements. In this way the government parties and the Christian People's Party budget seem quite toothless. That is why the Labour Party, both through our representative proposal on strengthening Norwegian dental health and not least now in our draft budget, has taken the fight for dental health. We're spending over 470 million. kr to strengthen dental health in our state budget, with the most for those who have the least. We seal all the holes the councillor Höie has created on the dental field in his budget. We say no to cuts in the reimbursement benefits for those who are entitled to it, and we say no to cuts for those who need dental regulation. The numbers show that 68 pst. of whom between 3 and 18 years of age were examined by the county dental services last year. For the 19- and 20-year-olds, this fell to 42 pst. I think an important reason is that you have to start paying even when you're 19, and many 19-year-olds don't have a very good economy. That's why the Workers' Party says it's time to extend the free dental system to those who are 19, 20 and 21 years old, and we'll give half the price to everyone until the year they're 25. That's good prevention and a good contribution to your teeth being part of your body all your life. We also know that many cancer survivors experience major oral challenges as a result of their cancer. The working party wants to take care of their dental health in a better way than today. The consequences of cancer treatment can be great, and for some it is impossible to return to full-time jobs. When one then loses part of the income, it becomes extra challenging if one gets large costs for dental health as well. That's why we've done 50 million. to improve the systems for reimbursement through the public benefit of selected diseases, including cancer survivors. With the Labour Party budget, more people would have good reason to smile. Unfortunately, the government parties and the Christian People's Party ensure that many will still have to hide their smile.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3538	No government and no big business has had more opportunities than what we have. That's why it's so sad that the government in the main direction goes wrong and does not use the completely exceptional opportunity we have, which almost no other country has. The government is increasing the differences. We know that damage the trust in society. It's unsocial, and it hurts the value creation. Social work benefits. More people get on their legs. More people get to work and can contribute. More are going to be fine. The government's tax haven to the most prosperous, the power elite in this country, stands in stark contrast to the cuts, petty cuts, to the sick, destitute – for example. in the housing stock. There are now 50,000 fewer people receiving housing support than there were a few years ago, despite the fact that the boutes have exploded and the income of the low income groups has fallen. It's unsocial, and it's unnecessary. A sustainable welfare state, which several people are talking about, is not cutting the benefits of the unemployed and decapitating and giving the money to the most powerful elite. A sustainable welfare country is when we ensure that everyone who can get training and education, and that you can get help to get back on your feet if you get into an economic crisis or meet a health problem. The government doesn't. The government has different priorities. They give gas to what is the difference machines in society: the tax system, housing policy and the labour market. There they do not do what we all know is necessary for more people to get to work, that is, to close the gap between the skills that people have and the work life needs. This applies to Norwegian disadvantaged people, and to refugees. If we do that, we get a resource, because this is a huge resource. Everyone's talking about the fact that humans are the greatest resource. Then why do we treat people with a slightly difficult life in such a bad way and not trigger this resource? Finally, the world is still facing the greatest refugee crisis we've ever seen. The UN has asked us to receive 5,000 more quota refugees. Governments say no. It's still trying to create the panic that made the majority here on the Great Britain even willing to say that the government was going to renegotiate the international conventions that it's taken the world a hundred years and two world wars to put in place, a small network of civilization. I am pleased that the harmful idea has been abandoned, but Norway as a rich country should take greater responsibility. It had also contributed to greater security in the world and in the neighbourhoods.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3549	It has been said to us in the SV of political opponents that SV is very good to distribute, but not so good to create. I'll explain how we're going to create in a green way. One fact is this: shipping and fishing are at home for emissions that are more than twice the emissions from domestic air traffic, which is bad. Internationally, shipping is an emission hosting. Another fact is that several county municipalities, such as Hordaland and Trøndelag, and important actors in the industry themselves, are at the forefront of the electrification of the coast – far ahead of the government, which has not attended the hour, or which will not follow the hour. SV has in several contexts requested greater investment in this area. It concerns both access to charging current and environmental requirements in the case of tenders. In 2021 maybe 50 to 60 elf ferries will be in operation. We are at an incredible crossroads in terms of technology and opportunities. However, in order for several ferry sections to be electrified, financial support is needed, because it costs a little more to phase in electric ferries. Therefore, SV will transfer 200 million. kr extra for this, the eartag, through the municipal frame. Verbally, all the parties in the hall celebrate the phase-in of the elves, and in their celebrations they celebrate the large autonomous container ship Yara Birkeland, under construction. That's good. However, in a recent proposal from SV, we did not get support from the large parties to include autonomous zero-emission ferries as an alternative to the enormously expensive fjord crossings in the project on ferries-free E39 in the West. It was actually surprising that they wouldn't even be involved in investigating this, as important research environments recommended. See that, whoever can. After all, we're talking about almost 200 billion. kr intended for all variants of bridges and tunnels in the world. Norway gives the green shift in maritime industry incredible opportunities. Hardly any country has better conditions for taking the lead in innovation, construction, testing and use of such vessels. Then there's a brilliant export potential in heels. This is one of the legs of the Norwegian industry going on after the oil age, and if we play our cards well right now, this will be a new industrial adventure. I have reminded this room of this many times: it is very short distance from oil and gas, traditional shipping and shipbuilding – I can also include hydropower and fish farming – to the new opportunities in liquid wind, zero-emission technology and self-driving vessels. We should take this opportunity now.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3562	One of the most exciting things about being a politician is to visit a lot of the melded things that are found in exciting community businesses all over the country. In the Hamar region from which I come, we have, among other things, Norway's leading business cluster in green bioeconomy and sustainable food production, with world-leading research environments in breeding and genetics. We also have Norway's leading gaming development environment, where world leaders in VR technology have established themselves in recent years with ideas that can revolutionise everything from math education to welfare technology and older policies. But the path from innovative and innovative ideas to commercially tradable products in a global competition that develops in hyperspeed is demanding. In that phase, a lot of capital is needed. It has often occurred to me that some of what Inland hurt needs most, is just private venture capital. The public agency can do a lot, but if we're really going to get things moving, we need private people who are willing to invest, participate and take risks in a critical phase. This is precisely why it is so important that we pursue a policy that makes it profitable to invest in Norway, create jobs in Norway or take the opportunity to expand an existing business in Norway, for that matter, rather than do it elsewhere. Tax policy plays an important role here. There are many interesting differences of interest between the budgets of the opposition, but what they all have in common is a strong desire to make it more expensive to work and more expensive to create more jobs in Norway. Even the Labour Party, with its draft budget this year, has taken a step closer from the governing party to the wing party and has proposed the strongest fiscal tightening of all the budgets they have submitted since 2013. It particularly affects Norwegian enterprises owned by Norwegians in Norway, who receive 4.7 billion. kr in criminal taxes to create values locally rather than to go abroad and do so there. One thing is the consequences this would have for those who run in Norway today, and just make the margins go around with today's property tax, but what we'll never be able to count on, but we should still care about, are all those who choose to establish themselves elsewhere than Norway because it was less profitable to do it here. Fortunately, we are not likely to count on the consequences of the opposition's fiscal policy next year, but it should be a paradox that many of the parties that are most keen after the most frequent possible closure of Norway's sovereign industry are also the parties most eager to create new jobs and new businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3576	When I listened to the line change earlier today, I was actually able to be surprised. When representatives from the opposition call for an increase in the willingness to reform from the government, it is allowed to be surprised. Either they haven't followed well enough in the class, or they're about to realize that the reforms actually work, and that there's a need to write about the story. If there is something that this government has really been clear about, it is precisely implementing important reforms that both contribute to increased quality of service and facilitate a sustainable welfare society. What characterises the opposition is that they have largely worked against most of these reforms. Let me take the transport sector as an example. We've increased the traffic budget by 75 pst. since we took over. It's important. But the most important thing is that we have implemented major reforms that allow us to build roads faster, smarter and more cost-effectively. Common to the opposition is that they have opposed all these reforms. Where the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have thought new and reformed, the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV have been opposed. Take, for example: The road company Nye Weier, which shows that by rethinking they can save as much as 30 billion. kr on the portfolio allocated to them. This means that money is released for other important initiatives such as health, children and young people, defence and preparedness. This is a good example of a reform that works. So another theme – the climate challenge: in the transport sector, it is largely about developing and implementing new and environmentally friendly technologies, while at the same time facilitating more people to use collectives, bicycles and corridors in their everyday journeys. To give some examples: electric car policy shows how, through political incentives, we can help more people choose a zero-emission vehicle. The sale of electric cars is already one third of the total new car sales in 2018, and we see it spreading across the country. The aim is that all new car sales of passenger cars should be a zero-emission vehicle in 2025. I have good faith that we will achieve that goal. It's allowed to be optimistic about that. Another example is our ferries, which have been mentioned several times in the debate. Over the next few years, as many as possibly up to 70 ferries will have low and zero emissions. It is good for the environment, and in addition it creates new and exciting jobs in Norway. We do that because public authorities, state and county authorities use the purchasing power and demand environmentally friendly ferries in new tenders, and because we have a business that takes the challenge. We are doing well to convert the transport sector into low and zero emissions. It has not been done overnight, but we already see that the policy is working, and that the emissions of transport have begun to decline. History has shown us that new challenges are being solved with new technology. It is highly applicable in the transport sector. In the years ahead, we will see that new technology will provide a better and more sustainable offer both for us as travellers and for freight transport. The modernisation and transition of the transport sector is well under way and continues with the 2019 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3595	One of the most enjoyable things about this budgetary process is that the battle to secure the jobs of at least 700 Norwegian seafarers in Color Line was won. The representative Steinar Reiten from the Christian People's Party spoke about this in an article earlier today. I want to praise the representative Reten for the thoroughness and his commitment in this matter. But Reiten is also wrong about some points. When he claims that I am wrong when I say that the government was forced to turn this case around, the representative Reiten is wrong. A government that has worked purposefully with a case over the years, and which has also proposed it in the year's budget, changed the regulation to open up so that Color Line could replace Norwegian seafarers with cheap foreign labour, had been forced into place. The representative, Mr Reiten, was also concerned about the use of words in the debate. He could not understand why not all could speak as a Christian People's Party, with a low voice, and find solutions with the government. It may have fallen hard words. I have said in this case that the Progress Party is sailing under the Navy flag. It's a hard statement, but he's equally fully true. The problem with the Horseman's reality is that if it hadn't been for this battle that the opposition has led – yes, there wouldn't have been any seamen again to fight for. In this case, the government at the point after the point came up with claims that have been rejected. It's been a big commitment, from the opposition, from trade, from people most, from Nordic politicians. That's what made this case a solution. Just to take a check-up on the matter: both the current and the previous Minister of Industry said that we don't make that change, Color Line will move out its entire fleet from Norway. What's nice about a trace of the future is that the fasitite comes for a day. After the decision was taken, send a press release to Color Line that they will stay in Norway. What is important for the Central Party now is that we can provide even safer and more robust framework conditions for Norwegian fleets wishing to sail under the Norwegian flag with Norwegian seafarers and secure Norwegian jobs. When the Christian People's Party is now on its way into the government, I can understand that they want an opposition with subdued consent and little will to fight. I can promise the Christian People's Party that they won't.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3612	It was the representative Karin Andersen who said it was sad here in Stortinget this evening because we are continuing a trend towards greater differences. It's sad, but above all, it's very serious. But there's no reason for us on the left-hand side to let us surprise ourselves with this. We're dealing with right-wing people and neoliberals, who want this social development. It's not that they don't know what they're doing. They know very well what they're doing, and there's a historical line in this that goes on – as they've always said in the main hall when it comes to financial policy – that we have to give those people who have a lot of money, greater tax relief because they're kind of the engine of society. The representative Asheim said in his first post that the left-hand side will not make the cake bigger. He was amazed at it, he said. Asheim is an intelligent person, both politically and in fact. He knows he's unreasonable. He knows he's talking to the fact of history. What is saying about this is that it is not true that the welfare state is dependent on huge tax relief to the richest, and that workers have to show soberness, which is the undertone of this debate. It's a historical political lie. That's the opposite that's the case. There is a balance between these two considerations that are crucial for society to move forward and for Norway to become Norway. The large tax reliefs that the right-hand side now carries out are only possible for them because of the oil money. If we hadn't, we wouldn't have had the chance to implement that policy. That's what's real, and then it gets even worse, because then they use the next generation's money to give tax relief to the richest on the grounds that it creates bigger cake, which there's no evidence that is true – in any society, anywhere in the world. It creates bias. Then I'll say in choir with others until the end: think to cut into free legal aid for the weakest! Something so simple to do, to put it straight out – with full commitment and the whole body language. Why in the world are you running with that? Or the housing allowance, which was also mentioned, for the weakest? Why do one like that, when a lemper hundreds of billions of dollars to those who are the richest? Then one says that it's necessary to save the welfare state. Now we're going to use the rest of the debate to prove that that's true, and maybe we can get a proper political debate in this house.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3621	A year ago, the Stortinget made an important decision to reduce differences and provide children with the best starting point for learning: one hour of physical activity in school every day for all 1–10 pupils. steps. In the draft government budget, the government provides a sketch of all the challenges of introducing one hour of physical activity in school, but no solutions — despite all the good examples that exist out there. The government fails to follow the will and decisions of the Grand Duchy, and the government is watching social health inequalities increase. The school has an unused potential for public health work. There are serious social differences in the health status of the population. As a community, we cannot accept that the background and income of parents should be decisive for the future of a child. Physical activity in school is important. It can create good habits that last for life, and it will be a boost for our common public health. Trials and experiences from many municipalities show that it is fully possible to achieve this, and knowledge summaries show that there are positive effects on both health and learning outcomes. Trudvang school in Sogn and Fjordane, Skjønhaug school in Trögstad and Sylling school in Drammen are just a few of those who get it. I wonder if the Christian People's Party, which was behind the majority in order to ensure one hour of physical activity, is still prepared to instruct the government, or whether the government who is involved has sunk down the party's position in the matter. If that's the case, I think it's paradoxical that the party that has itself proposed to introduce one hour of physical activity in school, chooses to turn its back on when the government does not deliver on the majority decision. The working party is prepared to secure all children one hour of physical activity, and we have spent money to do just that in our alternative state budget. We believe that it is the responsibility of the community to erase social differences and provide our children with the best possible starting point for learning. The government's lack of action and the ignoring of majority decisions go beyond the ability of each child to have diversity and health-promoting learning.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3634	There's a meager framework the government's offering the districts next year. Unfortunately, a disappointing draft budget for people and businesses in the District of Norway has not become much better through the budgetary agreement concluded with the Christian People's Party. While the pattern of maintenance of the county roads is increasing, and the framework of economic activity far from reaching the many projects that will provide new value creation and jobs, the budget mates correspond with the zero-growth budget to the county councils and new cuts in the money to regional and district development. The size has been given the task message, i.e. the government's proposal for the transfer of tasks to the county councils, for treatment. In the press release, State Council Ms. Meland sent out when she sent the message, she said, among other things.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The government will strengthen the county council as an industrial policy actor. With its closeness to the business community, the professional environments, educational institutions and regional partnerships, the county best knows what is needed to strengthen the development potential of enterprises and what promotes development in the region.» ‘Best’ – it was as if it could have come from a Central Party Council. Nevertheless, for the fifth consecutive year, appropriations for regional and regional policy are reduced. The frameworks are now more than halved compared to the last draft budget of the red-green government. The Government and the Christian People's Party also do not listen to the insistent call from the Local Governments' Central Association for a joint effort between state and state to stop the maintenance set-up on the county roads. It is proposed to re-distribute 100 million. kr in the county framework for this, but there is money taken from the same framework that does not cover the cost growth of the counties otherwise received in 2019. The central party's budget proposal for 2019 would give a new optimism in District Norway if it was adopted. It would increase the possibilities to give Melandine word content, by 2,000 million. kr more to the county toolbox. My own county, Nordland, would receive more than 200 million with the Central Party's draft budget. kr more in an increased frame, which can be used on county roads, secondary schools, boats and ferries – yes, services near people. Furthermore, the proposal would have given 82 million. kr in the increased framework of regional development funds. In addition to this, there are a number of other priorities from the Center Party that the county can take advantage of, among other things. more for racial protection, increased broadband development, investments in ports and fairways – among others Other ports – and grants to climate-friendly ferries and boats. The Nordic countries, as well as the people of the other states, would have been well-deserved that the Central Party was supported by its draft budget. It is a budget that re-distributes for the benefit of services and services close to people and to all parts of the country. There is no overburden. We stay within the same budgetary framework as the government and the Christian People's Party have agreed, but we have a different way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3652	After listening to this debate throughout the day, I have to say that we can invite the opposition parties and their representatives from there to play a different role than just suffering, but that they can start to play and lead. When the representative of Kolberg says that there is no reason neither to feel sorry for or apologize to us who are in the position, because we know what we are doing, I think that's probably the closest thing we can get a compliment from the opposition side. For many decades now, international policies have also become national policies, and from 2015 onwards, we also know that international policies not only become national policies; they also become regional policies and not least local policies. That is why I am pleased that the government, by delivering this proposal to the government budget, which will have a majority in the UK, is taking increased responsibility for achieving stability and development in Norway and in Europe's neighbourhoods, and at the same time increasing the allocation of important measures. It includes a sharp increase in efforts for vulnerable countries. It is also about increasing efforts on global security issues, and not least about helping countries to bring about democratic and economic development in Europe and Central Asia. In addition, core support for the UN Commissioner for Refugees is being increased. This means that we can get a quick response to new refugee crises, and continue to provide help to those who are in need of crisis outside the attention of the media and the donor countries. War, conflict and poor governance are intensifying poverty and driving very many on the run, and more and more are dependent on humanitarian aid. The situation is also exploited by organised criminals and extremists. I am pleased that the government is therefore increasing the efforts of vulnerable countries and regions, with a particular focus on and attention to what are Europe's neighbourhoods. International terrorism, organised crime and threats in digital space are increasing in the north and in the south and are also linked, threatening precisely the global stability and security that we have taken very much for granted in many contexts. The combination of traditional geopolitics and new, more unconventional threats creates a more complex and difficult image. Countries that are in vulnerable situations and conflict, with weak control of territories and resources, are therefore particularly vulnerable to such cross-border threats. Then it's important that we have a government that's capable of prioritizing these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3669	It is interesting to note that representatives of the party who once claimed to represent most people try to criticize the tax arrangements of the Central Party in this debate, for example, represented by the representative Engeli Johansen. In the case of the Central Party's tax and tax arrangements, let's first take taxes: you will need an income of more than NOK 750000 to get a single penny in the tax increase with the Central Party's tax arrangements for 2019. If you have a total ordinary salary of between 500 000 and 600 000 kroner, you get a tax return of approx. NOK 2000 Then there is someone who earns more – significantly more – than that, who will get something extra in taxes, but it also has their backs to bear, not least after having received gigantic tax reliefs over recent years. So for fees, as well as the representatives of the Progress Party are in with regard to the Center Party, so the Center Party has 1 billion. lower taxes than those in the State budget adopted today. Let's take the actual charges, for example. The electricity charge, which the Senterpartiet believes has increased too much under the State Council of Siv Jensen and the rest of today's government: we propose to reduce the electricity charge in our order. Unfortunately, the Progress Party is voting against. We also believe that the petrol and diesel tax was more than high enough when SV had the finance minister in Norway, but the Progress Party therefore believes that the petrol and diesel tax should still be significantly higher than that, and will go against our proposal to reduce it. When we think it was unwise to increase the fees on non-alcoholic beverages last year, and that one should reduce and go back to the level in the 2017 budget, the Progress Party is therefore opposed. And when we propose to remove the fee on juice or to strengthen the horse industry by removing the fee on Norsk Rikstoto, the Progress Party unfortunately also goes against it. There is no way of reporting charges that will be available overnight, but when it comes to taking care of Norwegian business and making reductions in taxes again, an investigator and push it out on time. The 350-krona threshold, which is also a clear subsidisation of foreign actors, has to be pushed out on time, but new tax notifications can come overnight with the Progress Party in government, and this is still happening, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3680	Today we have heard many representatives say that we must create more in Norway. Let's start by creating good policies, policies that actually lead to more 'creating' in our country! The bourgeois government has a great deal of faith – that is exactly what it is – in that tax laws have to solve most of it. We believe three areas deserve more attention than the government's tax cuts in creating. It's about the sea, the Norwegian people and the climate challenges. We will raise the industries along the coast. With a value creation programme for the marine industry, we are based on Norwegian advantage and our natural resources. We focus on maritime industry through the Eco-Technology Scheme and climate-friendly shipping. Then we must not forget the creative power that lies in the most important resource we have, namely the Norwegian people. The business community calls for more competence and, above all, proper competence. In order to create more, we need to update the employees of the company. World-leading competence has long been Norway’s priority. We have to keep doing that. That is why our competence reform is so important. And we listen to business as we look for good climate action. We're responding to a CO2 fund that the government has been wondering if they're going to figure out for a very long time. Now the proposal is there, and it's just going on – if it's willing. That's how we create a business life for the future Norway, and creating more is also synonymous with sharing more. Then we can get more permanents in the municipalities, more treatments in Norwegian hospitals, more pedagogues for small children in kindergarten and in school and a better care for the elderly. Today we have heard the clearest promise from the government parties about care for the elderly. It's that there's going to be a new senior agent. Why not put more effort into getting good care for the elderly? Then there is one thing that surprises me that has not received more attention in the debate here today – hardly anyone from the government parties has mentioned it – and that is the growing inequality. It's surprising that the government doesn't take action to reduce the inequality that we see increasing in our society. We haven't heard anything about this since we gathered the organisations under the chandeliers down at the Old Logen a few months ago. I am glad that the Labour Party has a budget that is adapted to the ordinary people need. It's a budget that makes us get a fairer distribution in society. I am pleased, and I hope that we will once be able to implement it and not have a budget that will do more for the richest.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3699	A typical feature of Prime Minister Erna Solberg and her government councils, including Finance Minister Siv Jensen, is that they don't like to talk about the consequences of their own policies. Differences between people are increasing, but the government won't talk about it. Ever since Erna Solberg took over, there has been a systematic cut in welfare – in the child allowance for the disabled, in the day-to-day allowance for the unemployed, in the social benefits for the elderly who have less than the minimum pension, in the car benefits for people with disabilities, just to mention something. Instead, they have filled up the wallets of those who have the most from before. It has a price that has to be paid by someone. ‘Some’ are those with least. And as if that is not enough, it is also cut in the public utility, which should be there for people when they need it, the so-called ‘debureaucratic and efficiency reform’. No one wants to waste public money. But flat, unspecified cuts all over the spring are no reform. The government is pushing over the responsibility to implement the cuts to the employees. The consequences are not talking about, at least the government itself. An article in the Newspaper on 29 January this year revealed that hundreds of public jobs have disappeared. The consequence is poorer service, longer processing time and reduced legal certainty. Only in the State of Labour and Welfare, about 300 million have now been cut. kr. Obviously, it has consequences for users. We talk, for example: about people in very difficult situations. On 7 November 2018, the newspaper had a new article on persons on redundancy who felt that the benefit had been lost without being notified, without having made a decision on any extension, and without considering disability benefits. Many remain completely free of income. Nav knows about it, the Ombudsman has received complaints about it. But the government isn't talking about it. The State budget for 2019 states that a key objective for the performance management is to provide users with timely and correct benefits. And that's fine. But if we look a little here and there, we find that the length of the procedure for a number of benefits is too long, especially for daily allowances, child allowances, social benefits for lonely dependants and disability benefits. We can only imagine how this affects people's everyday lives in a negative way, in a situation where they have it difficult enough as it is. The number of complaints is increasing. A lot of people get along. This may mean that the procedure is of low quality. All of this should get the alarm clock to call for the longest time, but it seems that the government does not care. People's everyday problems may not be important enough? The Workers' Party will have the consequences of the government's cut, among others. in the auxiliaries, just because we're worried about what these cuts mean to ordinary people.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3710	It was not the representative Martin Kolberg who made me draw, for I had done so before he made any comments. But I got many additional things after he kept his post. Let me start by saying that the representative Kolberg is a man I have great respect for. He's a man that I think we have a lot to learn from, no matter where we stand in the political landscape. But we had to go out into the tenth hour of the debate before today's centre-right-government was caricatured as neoliberalist by the representative. That is not something that concerns me – it was also the Labour Party's strategy in 2013 and 2017. It didn't have any effect. On the contrary, this was an image in which people did not recognize themselves – simply because they see the reality they live in, they see the policy of the government, and they hear the criticism from the opposition as completely grounded. We have been accused by the representative Aasrud of not wanting to talk about the results of our own policy. I don't think we've talked about anything but the results of our own policies in this debate. The fact that more jobs are created in Norway, that there are fewer unemployed people, that there are more in the job, does some of the things that were at one time the parade of the Workers' Party, that work is the way to freedom and independence – that having a paid job, where one knows that one is needed, and where one is paid for the effort that you put down, is dignity better than anything. When the representative of Kolberg then illustrates his point by drawing out what he himself calls a cut in free legal aid, it actually shows the whole problem of what the Labour Party knows today. For there are no changes in the right to free legal aid. The reason for this item being reduced is that fewer people end up in the economic situation where they need free legal aid. It's a good news that fewer people need it, because that means that more people are able to take care of themselves. That's how the criticism continues. We get criticism that there are not enough action areas when we have a government that creates jobs – a much better option, of course. We get criticism that we are demanding the obligation of activity for social welfare recipients, when we know that it's not just about getting more social assistance recipients into work on their own, but about the dignity of such a recipient to be told that we need your work, and this is the time you're going to meet. It's dignity. It can sometimes be heard in the Workers' Party as if what is being argued about is to increase taxes for the sake of taxes in order to provide assistance for the benefit of the aid. We reduce taxes and make people self-held. It is moderate Right-wing policy in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3726	When I hear this debate, I ask myself the question: Where has it become of the great dreams, the great visions of where the country is going? To be honest, this government is starting to get tired. The repeated message of the debate has been that Norway is doing well – more jobs are created. Well, after the fall of oil prices, record unemployment and the most massive use of oil money that we have ever seen here in the country, it would only be missing if no more people ever got to work. Let me mention a few other things: in the case of the climate, which has been little mentioned, and which is little reflected in the government's government budget, we are on a course towards cutting the greenhouse gas emissions by 13 pst. by 2030, when it should be 50 pst. We've been standing up in the greatest refugee disaster since World War II, and it's hardly mentioned, except for Karin Andersen, who's been talking about it. Differences are increasing. Those who are at the top own an increasing proportion of the wealth, while the capital owners run away with an increasing share of the value creation, over the workers. Child poverty is increasing. Over a hundred thousand young people grow up in poverty. There is a very high proportion of young people out of work. And the unsocial cuts of the students, in the housing support for disabled people who have children and who have experienced a cut in the child supplement, and to disabled people who receive tax increases, the Minister of Finance calls ‘wonderful perspectives’. I think it's time to dream a little bit bigger -- about a zero-emission society, about equal opportunities for all, about stronger communities and international solidarity. When you look at how few representatives of the Left and Christian People's Party have actually participated in this debate, it might say something about how proud they are of this budget. I understand that the will to defend the budget is a labyrinth. Take the climate: It's so frustrating when you see the lost opportunity. The budget was presented on the same day as the climate panel report was presented. It will be adopted on the same day as the beginning of the climate summit in Poland. There's some irony in this. Each state budget must be better in climate than the previous one. That is why I want to challenge the current government parties and the coming: what is actually better in this budget than in the previous one? There is some increase in international climate action, after massive cuts for several years. Does the Left believe that they have actually received more to join the government than to participate in the negotiations outside? We don't see results. One could have increased support for Enova. There could have been a focus on zero-emission technology in industry. We could have gotten a big boost for public transport across the country. I could still do that. This budget and this debate lack the great vision. People in Norway and future generations had earned better.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3745	A little has been said by everyone about the Left's environmental policy this evening, which could be appropriate for a comment at the end of a long debate. I will leave climate action and the international work done by the government in this field in this round. Instead, I should like to draw attention to a bet area where there can be no doubt that the Left has put its footprint in this budget: the fight against the congestion of our sea areas. In the 2019 budget, the government proposes to increase the effort against marine pollution to 400 million. kr, an increase of 250 million. kr from the 2018 budget. I hope the representative Kaski got this. It's about the pollution of our oceans, especially related to non-degradable plastic. About eight million tonnes of plastic are seaports each year. These are objects like plastic and isoporescent crates, plastic bags and plastic fishing gears, which have a life cycle that is the closest humanity has come to create a kind of eternal life. For: Many hundred years after we've solved the greenhouse gas challenges – because we have to – we're going to have to deal with the congestion that we've been putting on our globe over the course of a few decades. Probably the worst point of view is that the plastic is broken down into microparticles. I say 'probably' because we still have little knowledge of the effect of this. There is therefore particular reason to stress that the government has proposed 10 million. kr to strengthen research on marine litter and microplastics. I come from a county, Vestfold, where the beach clearance has become part of our firm spring rituals. Only in the last few to three years has the number of those reporting to clear the beaches for plastics and other garbage doubled. The national clean-up and prevention support scheme item in the State budget is 65 million. kr. These measures, which are a particularly good example of cooperation between the public and voluntary sectors, should inspire hundreds of local actions to make an effort on our common shores when it is lauvas in li in 2019. While South Norway is flooded by garbage that has had its use on land, the situation is different in North Norway, where the amount of plastic products is often linked to fishing. I am therefore pleased that the government has set up a centre for oil protection and the environment in Lofoten and the West Sea, where the fight against marine pollution becomes a central task. When we add to this the international role of Norway in reducing the pollution of the world's oceans, there can be no doubt that the environment, and the government for that matter, may have benefited from getting the Left on the team – for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3758	We're in a quite unique situation in Norway today. We have a government that has managed the piece of art to manage an extremely unlikely possibility – with perhaps one of the richest economies in world history – purely mediocre. In fact, over the last five years, one has been able to increase differences. About 100,000 children live in poverty. In 2019, the 10 pst. The richest one to get 40 pst. by all persons tax cuts. When it concerns climate and the environment, it has increased emissions below the blues, and one is far behind the climate targets we have seen for both 2030 and 2050. So all of this would mean that we had to do it for value creation. But number for value creation, what do they show? We can't find statistics for so-called new green workplaces. It's not exactly a significant increase that we can figure out in the statistics at all. This has been our downturn in industry in the last few years. It's quite unique, with the amazing potential of the industry, the good currency situation and the good trading conditions. The government has managed to ensure a decline for the rural industry in a situation where we were going to have a rise. Under this government it is more beneficial to place money in property than to invest in new industry and industry. We have a government that has managed to increase the differences, which has not been able to create value creation, not be able to achieve the measure of climate and environment. They have failed at all the most important indicators, the biggest challenges we have in society. It's a trick, an historic trick. They've been able to use these five years to demonstrate it. It's celebrating Norway's heyday with the mediocre. There's one thing that's clear in this situation. There are two reasons why you can draw attention to how it could happen, how you were able to handle it. Either that's because one has our ideological blindness, because one believed that running on with wealth tax code to the richest was the way to go for the creation of wealth – it has not been clear – or one has simply lit up the interests of the richest in society. Whether you've been ideologically blind or have sparked the interests of the few, here we're dealing with a government for the rich.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3771	We all know a child who has as his greatest dream to save the world, who will give away his savings to help children who starve, who will take damaged animals home to patch and care for them, and who jaws on adults who throw food waste into the waste dump. Those children have a sense of responsibility greater than most adults and a great care for humans and the planet. Those children are the future. They have the right to demand that we also take responsibility, and that we join them to save the world. Part of it we can do from here. But as with so much else in society: it's a lot of good that's built from below, and we can't do without it whether to solve the climate challenges either. I'm so lucky I'm from Westfold. There are still good examples of good climate work. Sandefjord municipality dared to set environmental requirements in its port, and Color Line is now building the world's largest hybrid ship to sail from there. The county created a climate fund and started a local market for solar cells on the roof. The Farmers in Westfold have now also thrown themselves at and worked with an increased renewable share in agriculture. Municipalities have merged to build biogas plants as part of their waste management. That makes the buses today run on biogas. They also work to phase in more waste from agriculture, because food waste as a bus fuel is also not sustainable in length. In Horten they have a technology cluster where environmental solutions are highly priority. Research environments, businesses and municipalities work together to find good forward-looking solutions. ASKO is one of the big nutritionists who really dare to bet, and we have them in Westfold as well. They build solar panels, and they build more environmentally friendly transport. We've got an environment in Westfold for green development because politicians are pushing on, because business wants to contribute and because our knowledge institutions want to be involved. We are totally dependent on the great progress being made, and that is why we must applaud and support all the small and medium-sized steps on the way there. That is why I am very pleased that the budget agreement ensures more money for the climate rate, which builds up under many of the good projects in the municipalities. I am pleased that the budget agreement ensures more money for Enova, because Enova is one of the most important support players for businesses and individuals who want to become greener. We'll all be greener. We have to push to get there. I am also pleased with the strengthening of the natural school bag, because it teaches our children about sustainability, so that they continue to make and make sense of moms, dads, grandparents, teachers and us at Stortinget when we do what they've learned damage the planet, whether it's throwing plastic into the ocean or choosing a high-emission car. We can still save the world, but it requires joint efforts – local, national and international.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3790	The representative, Jan Steinar Engeli Johansen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3795	The representative of Gülsvik seems to think it's a shame that we point out the true face of the Central Party when it comes to the Party's tax policy. For the Centre Party, people often try to imagine – yes, a FrP – that they want lower taxes and taxes. They have now also presented their proposal for a more reasonable petrol tax, which for a family will amount to approx. 14 kroner per month or 170 kroner per year, and a lower electricity charge, which will amount to approx. the same -- or maybe a little bit more if you use a lot of power -- i.e. a little less than 400 kroner in total saved in a whole year for a normal family with a petrol car. The government, on the other hand, has reduced taxes and charges for ordinary families by around NOK 11 000 per year over the last five years. It could have been good to know whether the Central Party really supports the government's policy for this reduction – or whether the Central Party really wants this money to be spent by the state or by the municipalities themselves, instead of by people.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3802	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3807	The representative Asheim was up here instead with some of the worst misalignment I have heard in this debate until now. He claims that there is no need for more free legal assistance — or housing support for that part — because few need it. The truth is that the income limits for free legal aid and housing aid are now so low that almost no longer qualify for it. There's a huge legal loss in Norwegian society, and I'm deeply shocked that the Right, who has been a legal party before, doesn't see this. I can also inform this assembly – all of which have fairly good income – that the average income for those households currently receiving housing support is NOK 134 000 per year, and the budget is NOK 93 000. It's in the government's budget. With such income limits, it is clear that the whole need can be eliminated.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3814	The representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3819	It was amazingly fascinating to hear the posts of the representative Engeli Johansen just, who believes that no, it's not really that dangerous to reduce the electricity charge, it doesn't really matter much – it doesn't really matter much to the Progress Party to reduce the taxes on petrol and diesel. Our proposals for tax relief add up to 1 billion. kr. I think people would be happy if they got it in reduced fees. Then to an explanation of vote, at the very end. The centre party will not vote in favour of proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party, related to the investigation of the fee on palm oil. We are very much in favour of removing palm oil and bringing in new production of not least advanced biofuels in Norway, but we need a more comprehensive policy. We have our own proposals in the tax package that we will return to in a later case. In addition, we will vote in favour of the proposal for Decision XIX, which just points to a comprehensive review of instruments, and come back to it in the context of the State budget next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3826	Former party leader Carl I. Hagen was very provoked when I pointed out the historical fact that the Progress Party in the 1970s wanted to sell the rights to the Statfjord field for some money. It seemed almost as if the representative saw it as an insult that I pointed it out. I can understand that, because that was a very bad point of view. And it was fortunately not that he – and the Progress Party – got the majority on that point of view. A majority wanted to use Norwegian oil and gas resources to build industry, create values and build jobs and professional environments in Norway. It has been a huge success story that Carl I. Hagen and the Progress Party did not get a majority for their short-term thinking in the 1970s. There's a line from Carl I. Hagen in the 1970s to Carl I. Hagen's party and party leader Siv Jensen today, who, in the last period, wanted to remove the entire concession law when it came to ownership of forest, soil and Norwegian nature – exactly the same idea: let the market prevail, don't think long-term about how to manage natural resources, how to create long value chains and pass on to our country, and where you guarantee national ownership. We in the Centre Party have made a proposal for a large-scale notification of Norwegian ownership, a big-scale announcement that is just about how we can use natural resources, how we can also ensure Norwegian ownership of basic Norwegian infrastructure. I hope that the majority of the population is willing to go into it, and see how important it is for a small country to safeguard national interests. It's amazing that neither the Right Party nor the Advance Party have been concerned with the growing deficit we have in mainland Norway. In the period that Erna Solberg has been Prime Minister, the deficit in mainland Norway has increased. We had a deficit of 157 billion. When Erna Solberg took over, and the last known figure was 258 billion. kr. So it's increased, we've become more oil dependent in the period of Erna Solberg in government, not less. That's why all of the parties talk about a big shift in the Norwegian economy, when it's actually the opposite thing that's happened. This applies to taxes and charges. The Progress Party has the finance minister at the time in Norway with the highest fees – fact. That's it. We in the Center Party want to reduce the fees by 1 billion. NOK, because we know that charges are very wrong socially. Looking at the lowest-income population, the majority of taxes they pay to society are indirect taxes. It's amazing that the Progress Party has become such a huge defender of higher charges for most people, because it's fundamentally unsocial, and that's the opposite of what they said before they joined the government. If you vote in the Center Party, you're going to get a completely different commuting system, a completely different tax burden for those who have lower or middle incomes than the current government adds. They have given priority to those with high incomes, to those who are best placed in it, while we have a scheme that prioritises common people – and people with normal incomes – all around Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3842	I think it is good that the Prime Minister has an international commitment, but I note that today we are discussing the government's budget, it is to be adopted here, and the Prime Minister is on political discussions in Angola. I think she should be in the Chamber when we discuss the state budget for next year. There is a feeling of self-satisfaction over this government, and we have heard it in this debate. That's the extension from when the budget came, when the finance minister said that now the sun shines on everyone. It is an extension of ‘now everything is going so much better’, and many of the posts we have heard today from the government have begun to say that Norway is the world’s best country to live in. But is it a reassuring analysis when we stand in 2018 and look towards the 2020s and the challenges Norway has? On the one hand, it should be lacking that Norway is a good country to live in, with our starting point, but the foundation on which this country is founded, the government takes very easy on, what has created that country, created the opportunities, with a fair distribution and willingness to implement it in politics, with strong public well-being that gives equality, justice and high quality, with the commitment to strong tripartite cooperation that gives people confidence and responsibility in society and working life, and with the front line and support for innovation and strong industry. Instead, we see a policy that boasts a society in which, in many ways, we have come to the table, which has made us more oil dependent, with faith in tax cuts such as stimulation, privatisation, weak community welfare and passive and business-neutral industrial policies. Nobel Prize winner Paul Krugman wrote an article in the New York Times in mid-November about fiscal policy as an economic tool for innovation and innovation. He wrote: The result of lower corporation tax is that companies pay less tax – sentence. He can't prove that Bush 1, Bush 2, Obama and the current US president's tax cuts to the companies actually result in increased investment. I mean, as Schlagsvold Vedum said, there's a question to discuss here as well. Is that what these results are? It was right to lower the corporate tax, as we did through a big deal, but the government continues to believe in it. It's the wrong way to go, it's a doctrine that doesn't work. So I would say, as my last point here, that this is also about seeing what this society needs to do in the future. The working line takes this government on easy. Large cash transfers that make it more profitable not to work are crazy developments for Norway. Climate policy is also taken lightly, one gets stuck with the goals that have been set, talks about them, and does not set up the hallmarks that we are going to have until 2030 to meet Norway’s international commitments. Nor can one make climate policy an opportunity for Norwegian business and employment, as it should have been. This debate has clarified very clearly.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3855	There has been a slight lack of effort by the bourgeois parties in this debate. I think it reflects the lack of enthusiasm for the project. I understand that when climate change is such that it meets with action paralysis, and climate policy is immersed in rainforest-causing palm oil, when it is such that the tax system turns out to be rigged for the rich at an even higher rate than before, in fact to the extent that the figures show that the 0.1 pst. The richest, 4 300 people in this country, has had a total of 1.4 billion. kr in tax relief under this government, and that the richest increase their share of the personal tax code. Then I would also take it a little quiet. In addition to the debate, we have been given the usual counter-arguments in a predictable way. The finance minister has written reading notes in the Nettavisen while she has been sitting here, and in that she says that the undersigned is ‘norgest in envy’. That's a classic argument – just because I've been telling the truth about the tax profile and the figures I just mentioned. Already at 4:00 a.m. 15.04 – and that’s a little before what tends to be a form – came the first post that mentioned the Soviets, Cuba and North Korea. It's early, and it indicates that you're a little defensive. The problem is that the policy that is being pursued now is in conflict with what we know is needed, namely, emissions cuts in Norway and not rainforest cuts in Indonesia, and what we know is a policy for the many and not for the few. It is a regulated working life, a fair tax system and a strong welfare that has given us one of the world's most productive economies. The tax rate for the economic elite has never been the Norwegian recipe. In SV's offices we have a framed picture of Hanna Kvanmo from the 1980s once, where she's standing with a spade, and it says, in SV we call a spade. In recent times, there are also other parties that have started calling a spade a spade, but it is not possible to call it the 0.1 pst. The richest among us for most people. If you go to elections on the slogan "most people" but end up spending so much money on a small group on top, it's no wonder that we call this government what it is, and say to Siv Jensen that she is what she is, namely finance minister in the government of the rich.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3866	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3885	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3901	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3913	Then Stortinget is ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3922	The President will propose that the presentation by the Minister of Finance at the Stortings meeting on 8 October 2018 on the Government's proposals for the State Budget and on the National Budget for 2019 be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3932	A total of 27 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-8, from Rigmor Aasrud on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 9-11, from Trygve Slagsvold Vedum on behalf of the Centre Party proposal No 12, from Kari Elisabeth Kaski on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 13-22, from Per Espen Stoknes on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA the proposals No 23 and 24, from the Bears Moxnes on behalf of the Red proposal No 25, from Rigmor Aasrud on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green and Red Environmental Party proposal No 26, from Per Espen Stoknes on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA proposal No 27, from Kari Elisabeth Kaski on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 26, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government of Solberg has submitted a proposal for the 2019 government budget that will not meet Norway’s adopted climate targets for 2020 and does not have the confidence of the Stortinget.’ As this is a motion of censure, voting will be done on roll call. The propeller will start with agent no. 1 from the South-Trundellag County. Those who vote in favour of the proposal answer yes. Those who vote against answer no. The President will greatly appreciate the calmness of the hall during the uproar.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e3994	There is a vote on proposal No. 23, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Frame decisions
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e4261	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e4266	Then the right number is 95 votes against and 1 vote in favour of the Red. That being the case, the proposal has been rejected. There is a vote on proposal No. 24, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that municipalities keep child rights out of the calculation of social assistance and to provide compensation in the revised national budget for 2019.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e4285	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 13, 14, 18, 19 and 22, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘Frame decisions
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e4546	Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose to increase the building loan guarantee scheme for ships from shipyards in Norway by 2 billion. krones. It is assumed that the building loan guarantees will be used only for the construction of ships with zero or low-emission technology.’;» Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asked to design a model for the fee on salmonnus in the farming industry which provides an estimated proceeds of 900 million. crowns.’» Proposal No. 19 reads: «The government asks the government to increase the maximum deduction from the tax incentive scheme for start-up companies to SEK 650 000 per year.» Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish a national support scheme for the purchase of electric bicycles.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e4574	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 20 and 21, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to incorporate into Enova’s mandate a target for the full electricisation of today’s fishing fleets by 2023.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a plan for the gradual phasing-out of today’s oil industry. The phasing-out phase needs to be coordinated with a prerequisite for reaching the climate agreement in 2020 and over 40 p.m. reduction in total Norwegian emissions in 2030.’ The Socialist Left and Red have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e4599	There is a vote on proposal No. 15. from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the establishment of a renewable investment guarantee fund following the model of the existing U-country scheme in GIEK. There is a guarantee frame of 2 billion. crowns in 2019.» The Labour Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e4616	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 16 and 17 from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the Financial Supervisory Authority carries out a stress test on climate risk in Norwegian financial institutions.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to require all county councils to deliver the climate budget for the 2020 budgets.’;» The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e4640	There is a vote on proposal No. 12, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Frame decisions
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e4906	There is a vote on proposal No. 27, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to propose, as soon as possible, amendments to the law necessary to ensure that children’s rights are excluded from the calculation of social assistance and, in the context of the revised budget for 2019, to propose to cover those costs through the allocation to all municipalities of the municipal scheme.’;» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e4916	President! The centre party shall also vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e4922	The Central Party has also announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e4934	There is a vote on proposal No. 9 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Frame decisions
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e5200	There is a vote on proposal No. Ten, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to adapt the negotiating mandate relating to the negotiations on a CO 2 fund for the transport of food to include a fund in line with the needs of industry and the NO x fund model, so that negotiations can be concluded and the fund established and become operational during 2019 in line with the previous decision of the Storting.’ The Labour Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e5223	There is a vote on proposal No. 11th from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to ensure that the Stortinget is presented with regard to the need for the establishment and administration of a CO 2 fund for business transport in the context of the revised national budget 2019.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e5243	There is a vote on proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Frame decisions
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e5510	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6 and 7 from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking for unsubstantiated changes in the VAT law to ensure that health professionals must include VAT if they carry out alternative treatment.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks whether any of the members of the organisations currently registered in the Alternative Treatment Register can be considered to provide health care and come back to Stortinget with a bill allowing them to obtain exemption from the VAT Code.’ The Socialist Left and Red have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e5534	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks for a tax that effectively excludes biofuels with a high deforestation risk [[as palm oil]] The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e5551	There is a vote on proposal No. Eight, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to abolish the neutral VAT system in healthcare companies.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e5568	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2, 4 and 5, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to evaluate the ABE reform and to return to the Storting appropriately’. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘In the first half of 2019, the government is asked to facilitate the free and easy delivery of marine waste in ports from the Fishing for Litter scheme.’» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The budget asks the government to determine whether the municipal pension funds should be taxable and to file a case for the Storting in an appropriate manner.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e5598	There is a vote on proposal No. 25, from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Norwegian State budget to be created and promoted with sectoral emission budgets from 2020 onwards, with a list of measures and expected climate impact. The overview shall show how Norwegian emissions cut to reach at least 40 pst. reduction in the non-quota sector by 2030 shall take place in Norway.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e5980	It's going to go over I first. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e5994	It's going to be over X. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e6001	President! The centre party shall also vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e6006	Then the Center Party has announced that they too will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e6018	It is votted over XVIII. The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced support for the vote. The Workers' Party and the Centre have announced subsidiary support for the suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e6032	It's going to add up to XIX. The centre party has announced support for the setting. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced subsidiary support for the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e6047	It shall be counted over II, III, IV, V, VI, VII, VIII, IX, XI, XII, XIII, XIV, XV, XVI, XVII, XX, XXI and XXII.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e6057	Case No. 3 and 4 are second time legal proceedings and relate to Acts 10 and 11. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-03.ana.ud146e6099	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
