ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e72	The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For West Agder County: Bene density Limmesand Hellestøl For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Tove-Lise Torve For the Nordic counties: Kjell-Idar Juvik, Agnete Tjærandsen and Kari Anne Bøkestad Andreassen For Oslo: Zaineb Al-Samarai and Inger Helene Vaaten For Eastfold County: Monica Carmen Gåsvatn From the Workers' Group there is a notice that the permit granted to the representative Else-May Botten for the period from 20 November to 22 November has been changed to sickness leave for the same period. – This message is taken into account. From 1 October to 14 December, the request for the granted leave of the representative of Lene Westgaard-Halle shall be extended until 15 December. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The Vara Representative Renate Silver is proposed to continue to meet during the period of leave. – It is also considered to be adopted. From 20 November to 23 November to take part in meetings of the EFTA Parliamentary Committee in Brussels and Geneva, an application has been submitted from the Højres Storingsgruppe to the representative Heidi Nordby Lunde. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The Vara representative Mats A. Kirkebirkeland is proposed to meet from 20 November to 22 November. – It is also considered to be adopted. Mats A. Kirkebirkeland is present and wants to take a seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e149	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's Storting meeting continues, if necessary, beyond noon. 16:00, until the current map has been processed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e167	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of up to seven lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign on to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e176	In Norway, municipalities provide most and most important services to our citizens. Ever since the municipalities were established 180 years ago, closeness between decision-makers and recipients has been important. This is a value that grew out of the government. Today, we have 422 different municipalities to provide the same services, but the quality and the content are not equal. The services should not be exactly the same either, because the municipalities, the inhabitants and their challenges are not exactly the same. At the same time, we see that some municipalities are able to provide significantly better services than other municipalities. They're so good that the high quality deserves to be shared with more. This is the core of the reform Life throughout life. By lifting the good examples, we will strengthen the quality of Norway as a whole. The Storting Message is a collection of good examples from the municipalities. Life throughout life is a quality reform, a reform to ensure that our citizens receive services of the highest quality possible. We know that learning organisations are doing the best they can over time. Life throughout life challenges the municipality of Norway to become even better at learning from other municipalities. There is a lot to learn from our neighbours, but also through our own development to find good solutions for future care for the elderly. The good solutions are available in municipalities, health enterprises, non-governmental organisations, business and community. The reform provides for processes of change with strong involvement of the elderly and the elderly, with the support and assistance of professional authorities and national and local professional communities. We're going to involve them and listen to those who wear the shoes. Regional support equipment is planned to collect and disseminate the good examples. The networks shall also provide advice and guidance as well as assist the local authority sector in planning, conversion and change. The government has set aside $48 million. kr in the budget for 2019 as, inter alia, shall finance the important network work. Life throughout life is the community's own reform. The 25 proposals mentioned in the Storing Communication are examples that have come from the municipalities themselves. Looking at which parties govern these municipalities, we will see that there is a cross-political interest behind the reform. The cross-political interest we have tried to preserve in the Committee's consideration of the notification, because it is essential to provide good services in all our municipalities, regardless of which parties have a majority. Government Parties support several of the proposals of the opposition parties. Since the appointment of the Health and Welfare Committee became public, we have chosen to support two further proposals, namely the proposals for Decisions II and IV. We support the intention of the proposal for Decision VI, but not the wording as it stands. The attitude of the Health and Welfare Committee includes a selection of examples in the areas of the Committee's opinion that greater attention needs to be paid or that should be strengthened. We could include a lot more examples. There have been a large number of good hearings. 46 organisations took part in the Committee's hearing on 1 October. In addition, the Committee has received a wide range of written hearings. I guess the department has got the good points that came up at the hearing, and they're going on. Life throughout life will be a dynamic reform to be developed over the next five years. The reform shall be evaluated through follow-up research in a representative sample of municipalities. In the middle of the reform period, a research report shall be drawn up for, inter alia: to be able to follow the changes in municipalities and, where necessary, to adjust the course and the use of instruments. The follow-up research ends with the results evaluation of the entire reform after 2023. This reform has already shown that it is feasible and has already shown good results. Stavanger Municipality has had its own Life-Reform for several years. They have organised the administration on the basis of four pillars to provide older people with better services in terms of health promotion and prevention, welfare technology, everyday rehabilitation and everyday lifelong learning. The aim of the reform is for the elderly to master their lives longer and to have many good days and years. Stavanger has worked purposefully with Life for several years and has achieved results that show that many older people are doing their own thing. Now we challenge the rest of Kommune-Norway to enhance the quality accordingly.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e199	Today, we are discussing one of the most important issues of the harvest and period. When I prepared for this debate, I came to think of Åge Alexandersen – yes, you know he the trouper who will ‘live life’. He turns 70 next year. He's older, senior, knight and rocker. Whether you're going to 'live life' or live your whole life, people who are going to have a good penchant to bring with them when you're going to discuss the future's old age policy. It's an incredibly diverse group we're talking about, and we need policies for both the young and the old. We need policies for the healthy elderly and the elderly with poor health. For the elderly, we're going to be. In fact, there'll be twice as many older people in the next 20 years. There is a lot of joy and a lot of opportunities for many more people to live a long, good life, but also quite big tasks that society needs to do. The Labour Party wants everyone to be safe for a good old age, regardless of their economy and where they live. The task is quite formidable. In 2017, there were 4.2 persons of working age per pensioner. In 2040, that number is going to be down to 2.9. One of the most pressing challenges is getting enough people to care for the elderly in the coming years. The challenge is greatest in municipalities in Northern Norway and the Inland. The objective of health policy is equivalent services for all across the country. We in the Labour Party believe that there is too much variation in the quality of care for the elderly between the different municipalities in Norway, and that it is a task for countries and municipalities to reduce these differences. The Storting Message Life throughout life thus serves as a good inspirational catalogue for sharing best practice across municipalities, but it fails as a comprehensive reform to renew and improve Norwegian ageing policy. Life as a whole does not take into account the fact that a strong increase among the oldest in the population will also require new solutions and instruments, not just sharing today’s established best practices. With this message, the government says to the municipalities: Here are the challenges, be so good and solve them. It is surprising how few concrete tools and how little money was contained in the message when we got it for treatment. KS was not gracious in its reference to the reform and called it: as much policy as possible for as little money as possible. But life throughout life has been thoroughly discussed by the Committee, and through a number of proposals, the communication is now more concrete. We in the Workers' Party are particularly proud that our proposals relating to solitude and nutrition strategy now have a majority, after they were voted down earlier this year. Together with the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and SV, we also ensure a majority of low-threshold mental health services and interdisciplinary care for the elderly. But it's still a long way to go before we put in place all the policies and instruments we need to meet the big change in the age structure that's ahead of us. We already have a part-time crisis, and we are facing a manning crisis in our healthcare services in the years to come. We miss a bet from the government to meet this. Unfortunately, the quality of care for the elderly varies a lot around the country, and we see great variations in what older people are offered by, for example. matted, cultural experiences, dental health and access to doctors. We're afraid that these differences will only intensify if we don't take hold now. The Workers' Party has therefore proposed quality requirements in the care of the elderly. We believe there should be some minimum standards for the care of the elderly and have in our alternative state budget set aside over 3.5 billion. kr more to the municipalities, so that they can bet, among other things. in the care of the elderly. In addition, we want the State to provide assistance and support to the municipalities that are struggling to meet quality requirements. We look forward to considering that proposal in Stortinget to spring. But first of all, we look forward to today's debate. With that, I address the proposals of which the Workers' Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e216	The representative Tuva Moflag has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e221	People live longer, and it's a fantastic development. We would like to discuss in this connection the early wave as if this is a tsunami that is rolling over us and is a problem. On the contrary, I would say that perhaps the foremost symbol of what wealth and what a wonderful society we have built up is that we are able to organize for people to live longer, to be healthy longer and to have quality of life longer. For all people, whether one is older or younger, it is not enough to exist – one must have something to live for. That is why this reform is so important, because it is about the content of care for the elderly. I believe that even if you are in need of care, it is absolutely essential that you be treated as an adult, independent individual. All the older people are just as different as we younger ones are, and over the years you'll get used to your habits and become interested that for many of us, of course, you'll live out your life, and we'll have to arrange for you to be able to carry on until the end. Nutrition is important – good food. I myself worked at an old age home in my youth, and some of the first thing I was asked about when I was going to help people up in the morning was: What is it for dinner today? Food is something of the highlight, and then, of course, the quality, the taste and the way the food looks, is incredibly important for those who are going to eat it. That's why I'm so glad that, among other things, Here we are added to stimulating more hospitals to get the kitchen back, get the smell of food back, get back what is one of the most important offers for the elderly. I was at Ørstaheimen a little while ago, and it was absolutely amazing. There I met the chef, the chef in the kitchen, Arne Kåre. At the nursing home they finished baking Christmas cakes, they were finished with jams, they were done most of the time, ready to celebrate Christmas, and they served amazing food. The contrast to what the local elderly in Bergen get, which I also visited a few weeks ago, was enormous. The food that I both saw and tasted was simply of such a quality that I don't think it's worth getting it served. Therefore, this is a matter that I believe is important to address in all municipalities where it does not work, and that the politicians actually go out and taste and see what kind of offer is given. Activity is something else that I have always been engaged in. The stereotype is often that when you get into a nursing home, it is older in front of the TV and sleeping. In many hospitals, it happens very little, you get bored. Having activities makes me very critical to say that you have a good offer. Engaging volunteers means that I am a potential that is not exploited in many municipalities, and today the pensioners, at least many of them, are very pervasive when they leave the profession. Many could plan to contribute. But in today's societies, flexibility is needed, including in volunteering. Many older people may have a house in Spain that they spend part of the year. Then it has to be arranged so that they can help when they are at home. They may go out or have grandchildren one day, so they can't have a fixed day of the week, but then they have to be arranged to contribute when it suits them. A very good example is the Luranetunet outside Bergen – Os – where they have got about everything from teams and non-governmental organisations to contribute. Even the Amcar club is inside and taking the elderly out, traveling in the countryside and helping to give older people more content in their lives. I believe that it is absolutely essential that everyone should be treated as an individual. Therefore, I think the primary contact system is very good, that you can follow the individual in a close and good way. Flexibility is more needed in the care of the elderly. That is why I am very happy to mention it with alternative tour arrangements, which are good for the elderly, but which can also be good for employees and get more people to work in the care of the elderly. This is about money – that is why I am very happy that the government has clearly said that the money will come in connection with this reform. But it's also about organization. One can never pay for good care for the elderly — it also needs good organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e240	The government has a big message that they themselves call a "quality reform for the elderly". The Central Party supports the intention to reform. We support the work of getting more elderly people to master owning lives where they live. The message focuses on community and activity, good food and health care. It's just supposed to be missing. It is this very life that is about: social activity and community, participation, meeting basic needs, food, physical activity, culture, health care as needed, chiselling. The Storting Message Life throughout life addresses what previous staging messages have provided, among other things. Report. St. 29 for 2012–2013, Tomorrow’s care. The communication, which was launched six years ago by the red-green government, had just its main focus on the meal, activity, well-being, innovation, culture, more everyday rehabilitation, a new policy programme for relatives and a national strategy for voluntary work in the health and care sector. In this new message a fairly large word has been used. The message is, according to the government, a quality reform. It is a reform of greater freedom of choice. It is a reform for larger matglede, either a cage home, in a hospital or in a hospital. It is a reform to create the health services of the elderly, it is a reform for relatives, and it is a reform for all who do the work in the health and care services. But then comes the most important message from the government: the reform does not imply that municipalities are imposed on new demands or tasks that result in increased expenditure. Improvements in the care of the elderly are mainly to be covered by the municipality’s free income. In my view, the reform process has been misused in this big message. The centre party will not be able to call this a quality reform. We believe that she is failing as a whole reform to renew and improve Norwegian ageing policy. This is not a reform to improve health services, it is not a reform for the relatives, nor is it a reform for the larger food companies, because it does not follow a crown. The government shall use one year to assess a back-up scheme for the establishment of the kitchen in hospitals, and it is unlikely to do so. The centre party found it a pleasure that the government has taken up what the centre party proposed three years ago, in the budget for 2016, to simply aim to offer all older one-hour activities every day. It doesn't necessarily have to be physical activity, but cultural and social activity is also important. We are also pleased that in this setting we get multiples for what we did not get multiples for in 2016, simply to figure out a separate back-up system for settings that can ensure increased multidisciplinary competence and more voluntaryness in Norwegian hospitals and in the home community. The majority of the parties support the proposal to ask the government to consider specific measures to strengthen their nutritional competence. This is something the Center Party has been busy about for many years. There is a positive focus in the reform that we need to get a more senior friendly society, where the elderly are respected and included and made use of. The combined contribution of pensioners to society through formal and informal voluntary work is estimated to be 45,000 years' worth of work, or just over 25 billion. kr in 2016-krona. The study concludes that the potential for additional contributions from pensioners is high and that the total contribution can be doubled by 2030. But it led to targeted recruitment, organisation and organisation. So we can't be happy with tomorrow's care if we don't succeed in mobilizing resources and putting the interaction between the family, the social network and the community at the center of attention. Older people as a resource must be the starting point for older people’s policies. Thanks to the government party, which supports several suggestions in the vote, also the proposal to ask for a case of palliative care and follow-up of NOU 2017: 16, Life and death – palliation to serious sick and dying. It is positive that support for proposal No will also be announced. 2, on a temporary pool, and for proposal No. 4, a survey of the human rights situation in Norwegian hospitals and in the home community, which only SV and the Center Party are behind, in the setting. I still mean it's a shame if not proposal No. 1, to figure out an arrangement to also be eligible for security housing, is included in this case. With this I would like to address the proposal No. 3 and 4 in the settings.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e265	The representative Kjersti Toppe has thus taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e270	I have stood on this pulpit before and talked about exactly the same theme and said that living all my life is not a reform but a mind map. I was only given confirmation after attending the hearings and heard several instances. We support many of the intentions of Life throughout our lives, but there is an unwillingness on the part of the government to say that one place must begin to commit – especially when we know that over the next ten years we will have a doubling of the number of people over 80 years, when we know what major challenges we already have in the health and care sector, such as. that municipalities are getting more and more tasks transferred from the specialist health service, that municipalities already have a tight framework and have to make tough priorities, that we need more qualified health professionals, and when there is no doubt that working conditions and quality of services are related. It is clear that a reform takes time, but we can only accept this premise if the objectives are followed by means. The government says that good employment for employees is important, but we don't see any increase in basic staff. They say they want a better diet for the elderly, but they don't do anything about it. And the list can only continue. Therefore, the opposition has made a number of proposals on housing, employment and the human rights situation of the elderly. In addition, SV is promoting a loose proposal today concerning the renovation, establishment or re-establishment of the local kitchen in a nursing home, which is mentioned in Life throughout its life. We want this to be investigated and presented during the first half of 2019, and that the revised national budget allocates funds to the scheme. There is no need to wait — rather on the contrary, the elderly deserve to get started quickly and commit themselves. We have to start somewhere, and with this proposal we think that meeting primary needs is a good place to start.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e281	The representative Sheida Sangtarash has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e286	Let me start like this: yesterday, 19 November, we marked in Norway the human day, as it has been since 2011. It would be an exaggeration to claim that the media were particularly concerned with the brand day. In general, attention was also focused on what the UN has appointed as the International Toilet Day, such as: The NRK did it on the morning wish, in a longer statement about female health. That is good and good, but it nevertheless gives me reason to make some initial comments on the gender aspect of the reform Life throughout my life. Men are born largely into a female collective of all-sacrificing, nursing mothers, mother's circle of friends, so-called baby showerers, aunts and grandmothers. My point in this context is that we often also end our lives surrounded by non-men. The difference in life expectancy between men and women is about. four years, still in the man's disfavor. It makes men, in addition to being taken care of by a sector where women are in a marked majority, also in our nursing homes often have to adapt to a collective of grandmothers. Someone will, of course, experience this as a enrichment. I still want to focus on how gender stereotypes tend to reinforce themselves in such situations: 15 pleasant, knitting, crocheting, conversing women in a corner of the salon and the older male TV slave, who passively watch today's fourth football match, in the second corner. I now fear, of course, that I am caricing the situation at Norwegian nursing homes, and I do not mean in any way to blame the nursing staff, who certainly do their very best to activate the men, but I think there are many who can recognize themselves in the description. My point in this context is that when Norwegian municipalities are now going to give life to the beautiful and right reform Life throughout their lives, they should also sacrifice some thoughts on the gender aspect of old age – how the man’s identity, whatever it may be, must be safeguarded. Men don't go out of life like androgenic beings, although it can sometimes work like this. This government has done something historic, which no other government has done before, namely appoint a separate Minister for the Elderly and Public Health. Okay, it's a woman, like the equality ministers usually do, but it's a step in the right direction. When the first big shot message that the Council of State is rushing on with adversities and enthusiasm is Life all its life, this is not just a result of her party's pronounced policy, but just as much a tribute to a Norwegian older society that just grows and grows. And then we'd rather bear in mind that parts of the opposition for incomprehensible reasons call Life a giant belly puzzle for the rest of our lives. I don't think it's a positive idea, but as you know, it's got to have some belly pad before we learn to dive, and the Norwegian older sector has to wear, from this day and a few years in the future, a name plate with the text "in the course of further training". That's how important Life is for the rest of your life. The left has long wanted more attention to be paid to good prevention and follow-up of those who need it in the municipalities — often before they come into contact with the health service, but at least before they end up in the specialist healthcare service. The left has repeated the message of public health, active life and more to prevent so many times that I almost get unwell by hearing myself repeat this. I can still promise that I will not end with it. The left is going to masturbate until the big parties, and to the extent that the smaller ones, too, stop competing for the highest possible growth in hospitals, and instead begin to compete for upgrading municipalities to bet on prevention, public health, fixed doctors and primary health services in general. It's a good start for the government to grant $48 million. kr to be used for technical support, guidance and local assistance to municipalities. Of course, it's just a start to the work ahead of us, and a continuation of the good work that has been done, by both this and previous governments. I think it is good that someone should now collect the good practice and ideas in the older sector and ensure that they are spread throughout the country, without falling into the trap that ‘all should join’ is translated into ‘all should be equal’.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e302	A well-functioning care for the elderly is a care for the elderly who sees the individual, who facilitates mastering, activity and community, and who provides good treatment and care when needed. The Christian People's Party welcomes a reform for the elderly that can counteract isolation and loneliness, strengthen activities that contribute to activity and social interaction, and not least contribute to a good and holistic care for the elderly who are in need of care. Over the next few years, Norway will have a doubling in the number of older people over 80 years, while the action space in the Norwegian economy will be significantly reduced in the future. The primary healthcare service is increasingly being provided by specialist healthcare, and patients are being sent from hospitals to municipalities with complex health conditions requiring advanced treatment and care. Sufficient resources and the necessary skills are essential for the care of sick elderly people in each municipality, and it will also be essential for an offensive commitment to health promotion and prevention so that more people can keep their health longer. Many municipalities report major recruitment challenges. The system is in bad weather. The majority, on a proposal from the Christian People's Party, asked the government to evaluate the system of determination. The evaluation cannot become a sleep cushion. It is essential that we also ensure a number of immediate measures. A stepping-up plan for the decision-makers as well as several LIS1 settings must be in place. There must be no fewer training, but more nurses and health professionals in order to take care of what is to come, in order to meet the growth that the health and care sector will experience. This is worrying. Intensification of recruitment and proper dimensioning of the number of places of study is important for meeting tomorrow’s needs in the care of the elderly. Older people need to be more involved in managing the assistance they receive, and even giving priority to what they want help for, and what care services they need. Today’s care for the elderly is largely driven by tight schedules and scarce resources. Instead of basing on the needs of the elderly and relying on the competence of employees to meet these needs, many places are managed according to standardised timetables, and the individual and varying needs of individuals are not taken into account. There is a great need to strengthen basic manning and improve systems and procedures. It is important that employees and the elderly themselves experience that care is characterised by professional judgement and competence rather than bureaucratic detailed management. It's about respect for human dignity, it's about quality of life, and it's about the individual elderly, with the many diseases each of them has. There must be room for day-to-day variation and availability of working days based on individual needs. Food and meals for the elderly are a central part of the municipal care service’s mission in both nursing homes and home care. Good nutrition is an important factor in disease treatment and can help to maintain the functioning of older people much longer. A broad perspective on food and meal in the care of the elderly is important, and the Christian People's Party is pleased that there will be an overall strategy for diet and nutrition – this because there is a lot of good prevention in a good meal. The government has, commendably, focused on solitude — the solitude of older people who lose friends, spouses, cohabitants or family members. Many of these become inactive when they become lonely, and then also the problem of multiple diseases and, not least, enhanced depression. This is important for us to address, because it is a major public health problem, not only for the younger garden, but also for the older garden. Elders are a precious resource in our society, in our families and in our volunteering. Our older people are going to experience that if health fails and the need for care increases, we're going to be a society capable of caring for them anyway. And the security, help and care will be for the individual in the future. It's about giving something back.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e321	The Green Party would like to thank the government for its efforts in the care of the elderly. In Norway, old age is often produced as something negative. It's a paradox that although everyone will live for a long time, none of us will be old. When life is on the verge, it is quite natural that many older people need good-bye care in institutions. Good professional quality in medical follow-up, food and nursing is a matter of course. But if we ask what the elderly themselves want and miss, the answer is a meaningful everyday life. A nursing home shall not only keep one alive with optimal nutritional status, proper treatment and organised toilet visits. It's not primarily more years of life, but it's just living the whole life that's important. One must simply know that a life, and that one is actively involved in one's own life. It can be as simple as coming out for a walk and knowing the sun's warm body, a good conversation, to attend a concert, to sing together, to trim together, to visit a house of God if you have a religious faith, or to cook and eat together. There is a lot of good work in Norwegian nursing homes, preferably in collaboration with volunteers. However, what is often presented as a challenge is a lack of time, or the supply of activity depends on individuals and fires. The Green Party will therefore increase the efforts of the elderly people's home for life. Life-holiday homes are a certification where life-holidays are put in place, and where the caretakers work to satisfy the cultural, spiritual and social needs of the residents, based on the wishes and premises of the individual resident. At home, attitudes and routines are created that help to meet individual psychosocial needs in the same way as medicines, nutrition and care. An individual activity plan is created according to the householder, and the systematic approach ensures that the plan is implemented independently of who is at work. Activities are based on actions that are feasible without additional staffing and an attempt to involve volunteers in the community environment. A worker also works for people to be taken across generations, by establishing contact and cooperation with kindergartens and schools in the community. By participating in the certification scheme, municipalities pay a start-up fee and an annual fee per institution. In addition, a position shall be created as a lifelongconsultant. This means that the scheme is a cost at startup, but it is well spent money. We can, for example: see Lund Hospital in Moi, Rogaland, which, after being certified as a Life Retirement Home in 2017, reduced the cost of medicinal products by more than two thirds in one year. Merethe Birkeland, head of the nursing home, said the following to Sykepleien: "We're generally using little medicine here now. In the past, residents often stuck to tranquilizers such as Sobril and Vival and received some sleeping medicine.’ What they now save, they spend on extra staff and experiences for residents — as well as animal feed for cats and rabbits. The Biggest Message Life for the rest of your life also mentions the home of life. The Health Directorate supports the Foundation Lifejoyed for Elders, who operate the scheme, and their goal is to 50 p.m. by the municipalities to receive the offer by 2020. The Greens think this is far too ambitious. All municipal and private hospitals should be offered to participate in the scheme or similar schemes, and to that we put in our alternative state budget of 180 million. to enable municipalities to have their health and care institutions certified. A meaningful everyday life means caring for the whole human being, both body, soul and spirit. Therefore, we cannot focus on individual measures, but on overall care that gives older people joy, togetherness and meaningful activities in everyday life. So, in addition to spending money on the certification of several municipal institutions, we are increasing support for voluntary work in health and care. We are also doing something else: we are reversing – i.e. winding up – the probationary system with the state funding of the health and care institutions of the elderly and rather increasing the framework accordingly to the municipalities, as well as increasing the free framework of the municipalities by 3.5 billion. kr. The Greens will vote in favour of all the proposals in this matter today, and I thank you again for the debate and for the matter from the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e347	In order for people to live their lives, we need to meet the basic needs – the need for good food and meals, the need for activity and community, the need for health care and the need for coherent services. Let's say that many older people get good services where they live, but we also know that there are many who experience failures in these areas. It fails too often and too many places, and the quality of services varies too much. This applies both between municipalities and within municipalities. It makes old age heavy and unsafe for many older people and their relatives. We see that it's often the small, close things that make a difference to our older ones. I am therefore pleased that today we are going to debate Life throughout our lives – a quality reform for the elderly. This reform sets out the objectives to help improve services and ensure that older people have a safe and worthwhile old age. Good solutions for achieving the objectives are available in municipalities. The important recognition is the basis of Life throughout life. Many municipalities work systematically and well in one or more areas of the reform. Most municipalities are good at something; no one is good at everything. But the good solutions that come are often not put into the system, and they are not spread to other municipalities. The aim of Life throughout life is therefore to spread the good solutions and examples. In the reform, we bring forward 25 solutions and hundreds of good examples that have proved to work out in the municipalities. Professionals, researchers, relatives, the elderly themselves and the employees have given us insights into how good ideas can be spread and, not least, implemented. That's what we've been listening to. And we're going to have an apparatus to support and assist municipalities in applying the good solutions to the best of the users – the elderly. We take the municipalities seriously. They have therefore wanted us to establish a network in which municipalities can share experiences and learn from each other. Therefore, the municipalities have asked us to help them get started, support them and help them make their own life packages. We know – and we say from the government – that there will be priority, earmarked state support schemes that municipalities can apply for when they are ready. It is well known that we are getting older, that the proportion of older people in the population will increase, and that there will gradually be strong growth among older people. Both the proportion and the number of older people over 80 will be more than doubled by 2040. At the same time, we know that there may be a shortage of labour, relatives and volunteers who are willing to take care of themselves. Therefore, the government has taken action to develop good and sustainable solutions to meet the challenges of changing population composition. I am pleased that a majority refers to the importance of systematic nutritional work. In recent years, the government has taken several measures to support the municipalities in the nutrition work. Nutrition is part of the Competence Plan 2020 and the Patient Safety Programme. National competence service for disease-related malnutrition is also an important resource for these services. Nutritional quality indicators for home and hospital care are established and will provide local authorities with information on status so that they can organise services according to their needs. National vocational guidance for both the prevention and treatment of malnutrition is being updated and will be completed during 2019. It will be implemented in the municipalities. I notice that the majority believe that there is a need to ensure access to nutrition physiologists in the municipalities. The educational capacity of clinical nutrition physiologists is strengthened, and there we have to start, so there's someone to recruit. It will help to improve access to this competence. We have provided communications and action plans with public health measures and measures for increased competence and capacity in services, and we have provided new solutions and forms of work both in the municipal health and care services and in the specialist healthcare service. Throughout our lives, we are signaling a new and sustainable policy to ensure that the elderly are a good and, in particular, a safe old age. I know that many older people have knowledge, experience and forces they want to use as pensioners. Several older people want to stay longer in work, more people want to engage in voluntary work, and Life their whole lives is therefore also about building an age-friendly society.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e372	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e377	In the vote, a joint committee shall state the following: ‘The Committee considers it important and appropriate that our primary services be provided by the municipalities. It's those who know best where the shoe prints, and it's the municipalities that can best adapt the services to local conditions. The welfare services provided in municipalities are under local democratic control and administration, so that service recipients can influence the quality and scope of the service provision.’ In view of the fact that an overall committee believes this, I wonder how the Minister of the Elderly is going to follow up the project with state funding of the care of the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e387	According to reports that have come, the attempt to finance the state is a success. We see that municipalities have a much larger factual basis in terms of who lives in the municipalities, and how they should target the measures adopted by the local authorities. There has been better interaction across borders, and we have also heard that finally those responsible for the budget and the money bag are in charge of the municipality, and those who are to carry out and adopt the tasks both at home and in nursing units, around the same table. We also propose in our draft state budget that we extend this attempt to six new municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e392	Does this mean, then, that the government will not follow up on the majority opinion, i.e. a unanimous remark from this committee stating that it is the municipalities that are to carry out the services? It would have been nice if the government party could clarify the direction they see for the care of the elderly in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e397	The municipalities still have to do the job. That there is money that is earmarked for state-funded care for the elderly means – even if you are sitting in the municipality – that the municipalities are going to do this. It is also the case that if there is a concrete proposal, I am the Council of State at any time to the opinion of the majority. A note is just a clarification or a wish of where you want to go. But I see so absolutely that municipalities and local democracy still see the needs that are there, and will make decisions and ensure that older people get what they deserve.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e402	No matter who's in charge, there's a need for people to do the tasks. With as many older people as in Norway over the next 20 years, there is an enormous need for skills. Especially North Norway and the hinterland will have trouble recruiting enough people, that's where the sustainability fraction becomes the most difficult to bear for the municipalities. I wonder if the Council of State has thought of some specific measures to support the municipalities that will have an extra difficult manning situation over the next 20 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e409	I share the representative's concern about the difference we see in what cities and towns can recruit, and what's out in the districts. Therefore, it is so important for us to look at the possibility of providing permanent full-time jobs, so that it is also attractive to offer these jobs in the districts, to facilitate good continuing training, to ensure that the environments, not least the workplace and the working environment, are good, and to facilitate the negotiation of wages by the parties. Flexible tournaments, as many people want, are important – and not least that we can also facilitate the use of the skills right, the right skills in the right place.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e414	«Life for the rest of your life is a reform for larger matglede, whether you live at home or you are in a hospital or in a hospital. It shall make the meal a daily event, provide several meals throughout the day and ensure good nutrition with good cooks and local kitchens’, says the big news. The government has proposed that there should be an incentive scheme for the establishment of the kitchen in hospitals, but one will spend an additional year working out such a scheme. I think it's incomprehensible, because this message was produced in ours, long before the state budget was finally adopted, how difficult can it be to evaluate a system of infirmities? What is the reason why you have to spend so many years trying to figure out a plan, which should have been quite simple?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e422	That's why I started that work already in the autumn. We need to be quite clear as to what criteria will apply in order to be able to apply for funds. I am very concerned that we should get funds for this – perhaps in the revised national budget, without my promise, it should be negotiated. However, also in the context of the already existing grant scheme, where municipalities can apply for funds for either the creation of new hospital facilities or the rehabilitation of existing ones, it is possible to apply for kitchen solutions. In each case it could then be possible to obtain, whether it is a production kitchen or another type of kitchen. What's important to me is that we've looked at those criteria, so we don't make criteria that don't fit the municipalities. That is why this will come, but we have done a good job in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e431	Another objective of the Single European Act is that it should be a reform for better health care and coherence in services. I am requesting a description of health care for this message. I'm thinking about the fixed medical system, which is incredibly important for the elderly, especially the fragile elderly. It's very important that you print out from hospitals. Many older people feel that there is no connection in the services, with early printing and short laying time – without this being channelled, because this is not the responsibility of this Council of State, but the responsibility of the Minister of Health. Then I see it as a message that is not related and that does not take seriously what is really the challenges for the health care of the elderly, and the context of the services. Nevertheless, it is described as a reform. Can the Council explain how basic health services are to be provided?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e438	This is one of the five key elements we have in the reform — both coherent services and health care. We look at this both in relation to the requirements we work with for the fixed medical system, and in relation to the primary health teams, which we set up, follow-up teams, clear transitions between hospitals and municipalities, how we should get to that interaction, etc. This is also part of the lifelong reform of Life, but it is also within my colleague Bent Höie's responsibility to make the decision-makers responsible for the tasks they have. This is something we are working on, and I expect my colleague to come back to this once we have made this clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e445	There was some happy answer to the previous replicator's question. As I also said in my introduction, SV today promotes a proposal that concerns just refurbishment and the establishment of the local kitchen in a nursing home. We want this to be investigated more quickly, and that the local kitchen can be put in place earlier, perhaps already in the first half of 2019, in connection with the revised national budget. Based on the answers that came now, there is an opportunity for that. Does this mean that the Council of State can support SV's proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e450	I would rather say that SV opens the doors, as we are already well started. SV can be pleased that the Council of State has already seized it, and they really didn't have to promote that proposal here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e455	It is a global challenge that there will be no obligations in the so-called reform. If the objective is to commit, what is the obstacle to voting in favour of the SV's proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e460	We have put forward a good reform, which is precisely to give municipalities the opportunity to do a good job. They will then receive the funds they are applying for when they are ready. The main reason we have presented this reform is that municipalities should know their needs, monitor, make preventive home visits, see who the elderly living there are, and see what they are good and bad about, including kitchen solutions. But it is also important that the municipalities themselves take action. We give them the possibilities and the tools to do it. Subsidies already exist for both the creation of new lucky days care places and the rehabilitation of existing ones. Actually, there are many possibilities already today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e467	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e474	The Life Life message is a concreteisation of the government's strategy for an age-friendly society, several years – several opportunities, presented in 2015. This communication is primarily concerned with care, in particular care for the elderly and the most vulnerable. As I read it, there was a picture of a person in his 80s, a woman who lived alone, who was lonely and sad and had poor appetite. She lived at home and had visits by a large number of unknown helpers who came and went, or she was at a nursing home where she was also lonely and sad, for all the others who were there, were either demented or so distant that there was no one to talk to--the care didn't have time. Yes, this is the situation for many of our most fragile, and therefore it is important and right that it is here that we first start implementing measures, so that the municipalities are able to become more familiar with ways to meet these challenges. For this reason, funds have been set aside for the training of municipalities so that it can be implemented in practice; in some places, these are new ideas that they need more knowledge about. It is therefore rather sad that the Workers' Party now wants to cut these training funds, because it is urgent to put this into practice. That's good, and it's right that the strategy for an age-friendly society begins by focusing on care, as we do now. But we have to be careful to put everyone in the same age booth: 60-year-olds are going to get away from work, 70-year-olds are going – preferably together, 80-year-olds are just living in the past and barely what 90-year-olds have to care for, and 100-year-olds like soft cake. We're the same age, but we're different. I also intend to use today's opportunity to mention two old ladies who are here today: Agnete Tarandsen and myself. We're both well over 80 years old, and so we're all living in the past. But we both think that it is brilliantly fun and pleasant – and hopefully useful too – that we are allowed to participate in the policy. We're even at the highest level. To be together to manage and adopt the laws of the country – higher can hardly be achieved. We even get paid for that. That's amazing, because that's almost all we're allowed to do. Both Agnete and I have encountered so many boundaries, so many obstacles, that we could get bruises from it – we would rather say that it's a scrubbing wound. Then we'll hear that we're unique. It's nice, but sad, because we would like to be far more involved in helping to steer the country in the right direction. We decided at the Court's meeting that we should look at the employment opportunities, because that is important. It has to do with all-round physical and mental activity, and it's the most healthful thing we have. Isn't it time we made a message about it too?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e491	When the representative Tuva Moflag in the country's newspapers calls Meld. St. 15 for an "eldersbløff" and a "mageplask", I wonder if she has read the setting. Had she done so, she would have been aware that this is a reform that has once been created from the bottom. It is based on what employees, older people, relatives, volunteers, researchers and leaders have seen in practice after dialogue meetings throughout the country. For me, who is 86 years old, this is a reform that is about me. Lifelong reform consists of 25 concrete and proven solutions in the areas we know that it often fails in the provision of older people today. For the first time, a government has combined and systematized the work of some of the municipalities that have found new and better solutions in the provision of older people. Now it is the responsibility of individual municipalities to describe how they will design the solutions locally. The municipalities that change in line with the reform will be prioritised within the relevant existing and any new earmarked financial arrangements. The reform period will start as early as 2018/2019, and will last for five years with different phases for implementation and evaluation. When the representative, on behalf of the Workers' Party, now proposes to the Stortinget to introduce national quality requirements in the care of the elderly with ‘minimum standards for the care of the elderly’, she opens open doors. That's exactly what Life throughout life describes, exactly what all the input into the reform process highlights and provides solutions. When Tuva Moflag claims that ‘the parental message comes without money and practical solutions to cancel the care for the elderly’, I am almost sure she cannot have read the message. I have already mentioned the practical solutions, and with regard to the money, the government has already granted some: 48 million. SEK to implement the reform, SEK 87,2 million. kr for the creation of lucky day care facilities, 450 more day activities places for residents with dementia. And as the reform is implemented, funds will be allocated to the municipalities that actively participate in the many proposals of the reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e500	Living your whole life is a hot quality reform, and it is because the whole reform is based on a simple question that the government has raised in Norway and asked the elderly: What is important to you? What is important for you to have a good quality of life? What are your wishes? What are your needs? What's important to you? It is precisely what this reform answers and adds: that the elderly get an offer of physical activity every day in order to increase physical health, but also because it gives social inclusion, increases appetite, strengthens mental health and leads to medication in order to get sleep no longer necessary, that the elderly get good and nutritious food with the ability to choose what they want to eat, when they want to eat, and may have the meal with others – not dinner at noon. 12 noon and evening. 16:00, not long night fast, not food that tastes and looks like anything that is served, but a good food experience, as the reform calls it, that ensures proper nutrition and greater well-being and dignity. With Life throughout life, a government has for the first time assembled and systematized the work of some of the municipalities that have found new and better solutions in the service provision. Through a national and regional support device, I have great faith that these solutions will strengthen the physical and mental health, reduce loneliness and isolation, and give older people the opportunity to use their resources, and not least see the elderly as the diverse group they remain.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e510	The centre party will support the SV's loose proposal, where one suggests that the revised national budget should include funds for a back-up arrangement for the kitchen. The Central Party has also invested in its alternative budget funds for such a 20 million advance facility. NOK, in addition to SEK 40 million. kr for lifelong follow-up, with several settings, which may increase activity, multiple day activities, etc. I have a comment for the representative Sylvi Listhaug, who brought up food serving, among other things. in hospitals in Bergen. In the media she mentioned the food there and described him as vomiting, while in Us, who gets food from exactly the same food producer, the food is good. I think this is a little thoughtful. I've been a relative of Bergen, and I haven't responded to the food. What I've been reacting to is that you don't get help getting the food inside. I call it the problem with the last 20 centimeters: there's good food on the plate, but one has to have help getting him inside. That's how you get malnutrition. This is also about resources and manning, and how to help the most fragile of the elderly. So until what I took up in my line, which I thought might be the greatest weakness of my message. The message is very good, but the biggest weakness is that one did not seem to take seriously the needs of the fragile elderly, especially the need for context in services and better health care. I believe that the Council of State refers to Minister of Health Höie, who has to come up with his case, but this is a reform that is referred to as a quality reform for the elderly, and then I expected one to take the particular health challenges and the need for coherence in the services in this message and put in place credible measures to help with it. There is a point of better health care, there is a point of better coherence in services, but the measures do not exist in a system where we have a fixed medical system that is in crisis, and where many see that hospital outreach practices are not good for the fragile elderly, who are usually over 80 years old. That's what I think I still have to focus on and come up with other solutions, and at least that's not signed out in this message.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e521	There are many issues in the care of the elderly that deserve a thorough debate, and I am so happy that food and meals have been lifted by several of the speakers in today's debate. Fortunately, there is a greater awareness of the importance of the community around a good meal for both mental and physical health, regardless of age. Nutrition should be included both in the patient safety programme and in the safety standard for nursing homes, and there should be a subsidy scheme that can contribute to more cooking and delicious food smells in our elderly institutions, when we know that it has good health effects. In order to get what we want in terms of diet in our municipalities, it's the left's view that we also need to start hiring more nutrition physiologists. Now I don't know the smell of ribs spreading in the room when I hear the word «nutrition physiologist», so there might be reason to focus on a advice I received from a friend of mine, a so-called star chef, who thought that now Norwegian municipalities should start hiring municipal chefs who have built their network around the Norwegian cookmaster's lodge, who are becoming increasingly competent and more widely recognized in the world, and not looking at the university environment. It can be a good idea to take with you to the municipalities, and that's exactly what Life is going to inspire your whole life – to bring along the good ideas. In what for a strange reason is a minority comment from the government parties in the setting, Left has raised a theme to which there is reason to place considerable emphasis. There are two places in Norway that run short courses for those on their way into the senior phase: Nordnorsk Pensionist School in Sømna and the Nestor Foundation in Melsomvik in my home state of Vestfold. These are institutions that, in these days, live a rather uncertain life, because, for bureaucratic reasons, they must be allowed to say, categorized as higher education institutions, and because it is a matter of government policy – reasonable enough – to cut down on the short courses at these schools, i.e. the higher education institutions. Now it's like the schools in Sømna and Melsomvik are just running on the basis of short courses. I know that the Minister of the Elderly is aware that I have addressed this topic from this pulpit earlier, in a period when the Left was not in government, I think. I do it again and hope that this strange construction, with the support of a couple of her fellow Councillors, can now change. It wouldn't cost a penny, and it would make life for these schools safer. Of course, there should be more schools of this kind, where older people can learn to get older, so to speak. It is about learning to make reflective choices in the ‘third age’, to enrich themselves and also for their surroundings. A age-friendly society is a good society for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e530	First of all, some of the comments that were related to both my post here and my post in the paper. I think it is great that we have received an inspirational catalogue, and it is great that the municipalities can share experiences. There's really nothing wrong with that, we're going to take that with us. The point is that it is not enough, and that is what is the starting point for the submissions that I have made, and the proposals that have been promoted. I also join the post of the representative Toppe, who took this up. I actually drew myself to give an explanation of vote. We are going to vote in favour of resolving the SV proposal, proposal No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e537	In Norway, there is a large number of good health. We're getting older and older, and it's getting older and older. Right will help older people master their whole lives, both when they live at home and when they live in a home. Unfortunately, we have seen that it fails all too often when it comes to the most important thing in the care of the elderly: food, health care, activity and community and context in the services. This makes the last part of life difficult to master for many older people, causing many relatives to become tired and frustrated. In addition, people feel that they do not meet expectations. They are not allowed to use their competences as they wish, and the care situation becomes a negative experience. The government has done a lot to strengthen the quality and content of the care services, but there are still considerable differences in quality and there is too much chance. A lot of good work is done in municipalities, but it doesn't go well enough together. To be happy with this, we're content to be able to let go of all the good forces. We're not just going to prolong life, we're going to experience and get to live our whole lives. Then we need a good environment for creativity and innovation. We need to increase the use of technology. We also need better resource use when it comes to adding, touching, and perhaps not least patients themselves, who can of course be a resource only they get the opportunity to do so. I'm recording that the Center Party and the Labour Party are asking for more money, and they're talking a little bit about the reform operation here. But the Latin word reformer just means ‘reforming’. Changing is all about creating security in order to do things differently, and it facilitates this message. Older people are not a similar group. We're going to be as different as when we were young. This must also take care of height. Local authorities have a very important task of information, services and prevention. At the same time, we are forced to realize that each one of us must be encouraged to plan his old age better. Everyone should be allowed to feel confident that they will receive good health care and can live a life of their own.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e553	It has been said very well here today, but it has been talked most about health and the very oldest, who need care. That's good, but I want to mention a point that is quickly omitted, and it concerns the development of society in general, in which the elderly don't always take part. We live longer. A pensioner today is not the same as a pensioner 50 years ago. But there have been a lot of things in society that are not good and that make even 70-80-year-olds not quite hanging out with them, even though they have a lot of health. I want to point it out, because it's very important. I'm talking about a development in society that's going towards centralization, the closure of banking branches, shops and mail and mail delivery that's being cut down. The near-police reform means that people may no longer see the cannon office, they don't feel completely safe anymore. That's what the prospects are. Then we have the word 'digitalization'. I think it's almost disrespectful to hundreds of thousands who are not on digital platforms that developments have occurred without due regard for those who are not on those platforms. I see that setting up local social contacts, a kind of link between different authorities in the municipalities, is a thing of the air. It's good, but also remember that not everyone has this link, this "breeding string", to digital platforms either. I think everyone in the hall, all parties and changing governments must bear a certain responsibility for this development, but most probably the sitting government must bear, because that screw has been screwed harder to the last few years. In addition, we have the neutral word ‘development’. It's kind of a development we owe all the time. We're necking after the evolution that's happening, and of course we have to take part in it. Is it such that people who have paid taxes their whole lives are to be separated because of a lack of digital contact with society? Is there anything a welfare society can be aware of, that large parts of the population do not actually participate in the communication on digital platforms? I ask the representatives to think about this when many of the things come to the room that just involve contact with society, because there is too much centralization. Remember one thing: it's a lot, including those on digital platforms, that get wiped out when Altin knocks on.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e564	I would first like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation on this quality reform and for its constructive input into how we can strengthen it. Older people, relatives, volunteers, employees and researchers are behind the examples of the reform, which should be an inspiration to strengthen service provision for the elderly and create a more age-friendly society. Many municipalities provide good care for the elderly. There are many skilled employees throughout the country who stand every day to give our elderly a worthy old age and good care. But it is also important that municipalities improve on experience sharing. The Progress Party looks forward to municipalities starting their own local quality reform and strengthening the areas of older people’s care in which they will improve, especially those municipalities that do not provide as good services as the citizens expect. Because there's a lot of variation. I was a short time ago visiting Thea in 89 years. She could tell that every week she was visited by 22 different home nurses. It is demanding for our older people to have to deal with so many different home nurses. Thea wanted most of all to be able to use a private welfare provider that she had had a good relationship with over a long time, but the municipality said no. The Progress Party believes that it is important to strengthen the freedom of choice and the right of the elderly to participate in the care of the elderly, and hopes that the municipalities will soon take this seriously. Government parties shall pay a grant for the renovation and establishment or re-establishment of the local kitchen in hospital homes. We cannot see being able to support SV's proposals today, because as we know, all changes in the revised negotiations must be made, but we hope to put in place the grant scheme to restore the kitchen as soon as possible. Another element that is important to include in this reform is to bet on preventive home visits. Many municipalities today do not have an overview of the number of older people in the municipality who need home services or municipal services. We therefore want municipalities to start preventive home visits in order to get to know their older people – those who have not been in contact with the municipality’s home services today, but who would need it, but who might not know who to contact. Not all older people have strong relatives who are able to provide the elderly with the services they require. Finally, I need an explanation of vote, because the representative Toppe pointed out that the government parties were to support proposal No. 2, and that's not right. The Progress Party, the Right and the Left have supported many of the Committee's recommendations, and we support all the proposals for decisions – with the exception of No. VI – from the Committee's recommendation. Proposal for Decision No We believe that the municipalities can rather take when they have to make their local quality reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e579	There was a claim here from the representative Toppe that I had been to Bergen and tasted food in a nursing home. That's not true. I was at a home-dwelling elderly person who received an offer for food at home, in a fantastic arrangement that the municipality of Bergen has introduced, with a dining friend. There it is that the municipality spends dinner on the dining friend, while the elder pays for himself. There was a couple -- it was Helge, who was the older one, and Morten, who was the eating friend -- for a long time documented food that almost was not edible. Then it was claimed that I was in Os, and that it was the same food that was served there. Helge had been to a nursing home in Bergen and had been served food from the same kitchen there, but he could tell that there was a completely different quality on it. Otherwise, residents of Os food get their home from a different offer than this kitchen in Bergen. What's really my concern is to say that I don't care about who controls these municipalities at all. But I think it is very important to take people seriously, and when Morten and Helge have now sent reports to the City Council and politicians in Bergen and tried to raise this matter through many different forums, but they are told that there is nothing wrong with the food, while those who eat it – and not only Morten and Helge, but also many others – complain about it, it is soon time to wake up, start taking hold of it and look at what you actually serve. That's why it's important to be out there and get the feeling of what people are busy about. I think that also helps to do our job in this room even better – because we know where the shoe is pressing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e590	It is important that we take on board the fact that this reform is based on many other major messages and plans that have already been adopted. I mention Care 2020, Dementia 2020, Several years – more opportunities, and also e.g. the primary health notification and the action plan on general medical care. There is a basic plan on which this reform is based. We have many specific decisions taken in this House, on which we are based. This is not a mind map, as a representative here said. For us, it is important to focus on the elderly. When I look through the submitted proposals from both the Centre Party and SV, the Centre Party may have added about 20 million. kr for the kitchen. SV has not provided funds for the kitchen as far as I can see, and there is little mention of the care of the elderly from the latter party. So to the Workers' Party: It was mentioned here by the representative Toppe that the red-green government had presented tomorrow's care, which was a big message when the red-greens sat with the majority. It was said to be positive, but it also became quite clear that it has not worked. Had it worked out there, we wouldn't have had to live our whole lives. When I've traveled around and talked about Life my whole life, I've met a lot of Labour Party rapporteurs, Senterparti rapporteurs and others. What do they want? They just want help and help to cope with the change that we all know is coming, no matter what political color we have. That's what we deliver here in Life all our lives. We help the municipalities, we've collected all the good solutions that you've never been able to move out of the municipality. Then we've given them back and said, "Here, we've sorted it out for you, we've made it clear. We will help the municipalities, in cooperation with the rapporteurs of the Workers' Party, in cooperation with the rapporteurs of the Centre Party and the rapporteurs of the Right and Christian People's Party. We need to make that transition. Then I do not fully understand why the Labour Party’s representatives do not take their own local politicians seriously and listen to them. Previous reforms have often been about systems. Life your whole life is about people. That's what's important here, what's most important in life for these -- community, activity, good food, health care. That is why I am very pleased that a joint committee has pointed out dignity and respect in the care of the elderly. It is precisely about the concrete things in everyday life. These are the closest things that are at the heart of the reform. With Life throughout their lives, older people will have the opportunity to master their own lives and experience security where they live – not half their lives, but all their lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e605	We can't solve all of society's challenges with more money – more money isn't the answer to everything. We have to demand that the huge resources we're already using provide services of very high quality. Life all my life is, in my view, a model for many more sectors. In far more areas, we should have quality reforms like this, in which the good examples are brought forward. The working party said in its article that they want minimum quality in care for the elderly. There are already many quality requirements. At the same time, detailed quality requirements will be out-dated before the Storting reaches their adoption. The community is evolving, and we have to evolve along with it. In this context, we need to have confidence in local democracy and that they are quick to turn around, so that we can get good services for all the inhabitants. And it's not like everything's collected here on the Stortinget. It is relatively evenly distributed across the country, and local democracy and local politicians have a lot of knowledge of what is best for their inhabitants. Living the whole life reform shows that we are demanding good care for the elderly. The Central Party said earlier that it doesn't come with money. Well, that's probably a comment, but it's 48 million. Mr President, in the government's draft budget. But it's mainly the budgets from 2020 to 2023 that count in this context, so here we're not going to go ahead and look at it darkly, as I believe the representative of the Central Party did. That's said very well in the debate, and it's a very important topic. We all want the best for care for the elderly and for our seniors to have a long and good life – they come after. Then I hope that the municipalities follow up, fold up the shirt sleeves and start projects that give our seniors a long and good life.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e622	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e638	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e647	In February, the Christian People's Party promoted a proposal for a representative, which they called an offensive and solidarity alcohol policy. Based on a number of issues in the Spring Health and Welfare Committee, this matter was shifted over the summer, and we are presenting the Committee's position today. The Committee recognises that the harmful use of alcohol causes problems for individuals, third parties and society. Alcohol abuse by others often affects children, young people and others close to family. It is sad that adult abuse of alcohol affects children. Many children live with parents who are at risk of alcohol consumption. Therefore, the Committee considers preventive work to be important for families with children. Alcohol legislation in Norway is strict. We have lower alcohol consumption and fewer harms than other European countries, and the Committee notes that youth alcohol consumption in Norway is falling. In addition to national leadership such as the maximum sales and donation time limit, age limits, etc., municipalities are responsible for designing a locally adapted alcohol policy, setting out the number of outlets and selling and serving times within the maximum limit, processing authorisation applications and carrying out controls and reactions. It is therefore important to point out that the Committee agrees that infringements of the law must be detected and that infringements must be followed up with penalties. However, with regard to the action of the proposers on what is called a solidarity policy on alcohol, the Committee is divided. I therefore recommend the Committee's position. There will be around 14 proposals in the case, and I warn that the Progress Party will vote against all of them. The proposals that are good are already taken care of or under the direction of the government. In addition, the bad proposals are completely meaningless, and the Progress Party sees no need to support symbolism policies that only intend to waste people's time and money.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e664	The Labour Party will have a responsible alcohol policy in which we protect the role of the Wine Monopoly and build on the crucial factors, which are prevention, price, availability and advertising bans. Society has a responsibility to jointly limit the harm caused by alcohol use. Alcohol abuse is the biggest drug problem in today's society and affects thousands of children. Previous estimates made by the Institute for Public Health show that there are an estimated 90 000 children in Norway who have at least one parent who abuses alcohol. The Labour Party will have a restrictive, preventive and knowledge-based alcohol policy and reinforce measures aimed at children growing up in their homes with drug problems. A national alcohol strategy is necessary to provide a coherent policy limiting the damage to individuals and society. Alcohol policy is primarily health policy. Among the proposals we are discussing here today are proposals for labelling alcoholic beverages. Making informed choices as consumers is impossible as it is now. What's of content is well hidden, and we don't get the information. For allergy sufferers, it is crucial to know what you get. We have waited a long time for the European Commission to go ahead. Time goes by, and it hasn't yet come into place. The introduction of content labelling is a significant enhancement of consumer rights. In the Workers' Party's alternative state budget, which was presented last week, we propose to reverse the extension made in the tax-free regime in 2014. When the change came, the Workers' Party was opposed. There is reason to be concerned about the effect of enlargement on the position of the Vinmonopole. There is coherence in our policies. We are following up our alternative state budget and are therefore promoting the following proposals today: ‘The Government asks the Government to reverse the extension made by the tax-free scheme in 2014.’ Today, several proposals for a responsible, restrictive and knowledge-based alcohol policy are proposed. It is gratifying for our common public health. I address the Labour Party's proposals and the proposals to which the Labour Party is a co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e682	The representative Elise Björnebeck-Waaagen has drawn up the proposal she referred to, and the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e687	We in the Right are concerned with reducing the damage alcohol can cause to people, families and the environment. It is particularly important to reduce the harm caused by alcohol consumption on the part of children. We are concerned with a responsible, knowledge-based and restrictive alcohol policy, and we are concerned with good prevention. At the same time, we believe that there is today a good and restrictive alcohol policy. A number of restrictions have already been introduced. There is a lot of prevention and there is a lot of good follow-up of risk groups. When we do not support the proposal to tighten up the timing by setting a national limit to 0 p.m. 2 at night, it's because we believe the municipalities themselves have to adopt the donation times. Today is the maximum time for donation time. 3rd@item: inlistbox The municipalities that believe this is too late have today full opportunity to adopt a previous tipping stop. The government has already presented an escalating plan for the drug field that specifically takes into account those with drug problems. The plan itself provides health services to vulnerable persons. That is why we do not believe that there is a need for an alcohol strategy of our own. We are concerned that pregnant women avoid alcohol, but there are already a number of measures to inform about the adverse effects of alcohol on the foetus. There are campaigns like Alcohol-free pregnancy – The best start. Zero tolerance for the use of alcohol during pregnancy is still the main message of health authorities. Fortunately, a 2017 report shows that the proportion of Norwegian women who drink alcohol during pregnancy is the lowest in Europe. The good figures should not be a cushion, but it shows that the measures in place are working and that the measures should continue. The opposition hangs around the Vinmonopolet, and that is to a great extent. But one can almost get the impression that alcohol sold from the Vinmonopole is less harmful than alcohol sold from other suppliers. Allowing the wine monopoly to take over the duty-free sale of alcoholic beverages at Avinor airports will have no impact on alcohol consumption in Norway. But such an acquisition will reduce Avinor's ability to earn, as the system is set up today. The monopoly has to sell tax-free goods, but they have to compete for tax-free sales in line with today's private suppliers. We in the Right agree that child rights should be protected for alcohol consumption, but we cannot follow opposition parties because we believe that the comments are too general. As mentioned above, we in the Right are concerned with reducing the damage alcohol consumption can cause people, families and the environment. If we do not support the proposals today, it is because we believe there are already restrictions, plans and measures that meet the objectives of the proposals that have been promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e704	In order to reduce health damage caused by alcohol use, it is important to work to reduce the overall consumption of alcohol in society. There is no clear distinction between alcohol use and abuse. For this reason, it is important to address the whole population rather than just small groups. According to alcohol laws, the aim is to limit to the extent possible the social and individual harms that alcohol use can cause. As part of this, the law aims to limit the consumption of alcoholic beverages. In the setting, the government party is not in a note about this. They are not aware that the purpose of the law to limit the consumption of alcoholic beverages must be respected. They think there's no need for a national alcohol strategy to achieve this. We have strategies mostly in health policy, for diet, for tobacco, for hepatitis, for diabetes — to mention something. But an alcohol strategy means the government party that we can't have it. It is really unthinkable to be credible in public health policy. The centre party is pleased that there are still multiples to ask the government to develop a national alcohol strategy for the Storting, which describes how the alcohol policy objectives of reducing alcohol consumption are to be achieved. The Central Party supports the setting up of a public selection to assess the large social costs of alcohol for society, working life and individuals. We support the proposal to strengthen cooperation with sports organisations in order to make sport an alcohol-free zone. We support enhanced cooperation to raise awareness of attitudes towards alcohol in the workplace. We support the requirement for the labelling of alcoholic beverages. Why should alcohol be exempted from the requirement that food be labelled with content? We support stronger measures to combat alcohol smuggling to Norway. We support better organised treatment provision for whole families with alcohol problems. We support proposals to ensure that all pregnant women are informed about alcohol during pregnancy. We support proposals to introduce a labelling scheme and warning labelling for alcohol. We support the Workers' Party's proposal to reverse the last change in the tax-free quota. Finally, there must be a cross of thought for the Christian People's Party in this matter, with the direction they have taken, that they must go to the Labour Party, the Center Party and the SV to get multiple numbers for many of these important proposals. I make the suggestions that the Center Party has with the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e721	Then the representative Kjersti Toppe has presented the proposals to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e726	Since we are not included in these proposals, because of the treatment in my party, I would like to express how happy I am that this matter is being dealt with today, and we are going to support very many of the proposals that are available. Recently my daughter's grandmother went away. She was a lady with legs in her nose and a tough life out in District Norway. She was one who at the breakfast table talked openly about the damage to alcohol, as she had firsthand experience of violence and abuse associated with alcohol. She was exposed to it from her husband, and she used to say that her story unfortunately is not unique. What struck me in those conversations was how shameless and open she was about the violence, about the fear, about the children and about the consequences of alcohol abuse, also several generations in time. Of course, we need to protect and treat alcohol users, but we should not forget those who are exposed to alcohol abuse by partners and parents. And as politicians, we should just be lacking that we don't dare at least as much as Grandma. Today’s proposals are good, and SV support more of them. We need an alcohol strategy. We need a comprehensive look at the problem again, at how we can prevent and reduce the harm caused by alcohol abuse, at the drinking culture of young people and at work, and at better protection of children and young people growing up with alcohol abuse at home. In particular, I would like to draw up the proposal on treatment provision for whole families with alcohol problems. I think this is a very good proposal, and there is no doubt that SV will support it. But there's one proposal that I'd like to problem a little bit. There is information for all pregnant women about alcohol. A lot of people are familiar with health professionals today doing a great job of disseminating information. I do not reject the proposal that exists, but I believe that it would be better if we first recognised that there is sufficient information for pregnant women today, and that health professionals are doing a good job. Secondly, there are groups in society that this information is not available for different reasons. Therefore, SV promotes an independent proposal on precisely this – an investigation proposal that allows us to better understand which groups of pregnant women need an extended information format. I hope that more parties can support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e739	The representative Sheida Sangtarash has drawn up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e745	That alcohol is a dangerous drug, there's no doubt about it. So the left wants to do what we can to make people need to rush less. There are many reasons why people are rushing out of their mind. We know that there is a strong link between traumatic experiences and drug use. We know that children who are subjected to violence, abuse or other care failures are at greater risk of both mental and drug dependence. Last week I was visiting the Finnmark collective in Langfjordbotn. It was said that all of the members of the collective swept away with trauma from childhood. We know that many defense veterans are struggling with rushes, we know that many can get into trouble after major life crises, such as illness, the death of people or the breakup of lives. Therefore, the Left will strengthen its commitment to prevention and early intervention. We want people to fill their lives with enriching activities, not destructive use of drugs. That's why we're dedicated to building good communities from below and up, in close relation to volunteering. If we can build a society that includes everyone, and builds a team around families that struggle, we've achieved a lot. Then I think the alcohol itself now and then can be an enrichment, when it's used with the wit and the way. We know that restrictions and bans can often be directly counterproductive to reduce the consumption of drugs. It's possible I'm naive, but I think people who are well choose to be good with themselves and others. That's why I'm very proud of what the Left has done with the Christian People's Party in recent years. We have a lot to show when it comes to giving people the opportunity to live a good life, with help and support when it comes to it. Let me mention some of what we've gotten together, which I think also reduces the risk of alcohol taking control of people's lives: We have strengthened a number of grant schemes for municipalities, both poverty and lowthreshold services in mental health as well as several outreach teams. We have built meeting places for children who are related to addicted parents. We have strengthened alternatives to violence and a number of important organisations. We have a historic escalation of school health services and health stations. We have strengthened a number of measures to reduce violence and abuse against children by strengthening the escalation plan several times. We work for an inclusive working life with room for everyone. We have systematically strengthened family protection because we value the family and know that it is a fundamental element. We are in favour of a number of measures that reduce people’s alcohol use. We're too high an alcohol charge, and we're here to inform you about the adverse effects of alcohol. We support the international goals of reducing alcohol consumption. We just have another belief in how we can get there than many others here in the hall. I don't think an alcohol strategy that looks like we're going to adopt here today will solve the challenges we're having with drugs. But I think, through the government's efforts in recent years, we'll see results through reduced need to rush.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e758	Last year I had a new sibling. He had lived in foster homes in Sweden all his life, and did not know my uncle, who died of alcohol abuse. I imagine Jimmy on the floor with my husband as they walked through the whole father's history. He did not know the father and was impressed that he had a father who had died of his alcohol consumption. To call this symbol policy is to go far beyond the line. Alcohol is the substance that causes the most harm. In 2015, there were 349 alcohol-related deaths in Norway. Alcohol consumption may also have an impact on other deaths — diseases, drowning accidents and other accidents — which are not included in this account. In addition, 50 000 to 150000 young people live with parents who are at risk of alcohol consumption. To call this symbol policy from this pulpit is to take these children to a small degree seriously. Alcohol consumption and abuse can affect an incredible number of people, and it is our responsibility to pursue a policy that works for this. It is our responsibility to create a strategy that goes beyond saying that this is symbolism policy. We have instruments, and we should use more instruments to take responsibility for health policy and public health policy in relation to alcohol. I note that many of the proposals are not being adopted. I'm recording that we're getting an alcohol strategy. I would like to take part in the proposal from the Workers' Party regarding the tax-free quota, but it is wanted to apply from 1 January 2019. The Christian People's Party is in the process of budget negotiations, and we should like to see this apply from 1 January 2020. But we're going to do what we can to reduce the tax-free quota, because this is devastating for the best way we have in controlling Norwegian alcohol policy, and that's the Norwegian wine monopoly. I address the proposals of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e769	The representative, Olug V. Bollestad, has drawn up the suggestions she made.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e774	We are all concerned with reducing the damage that alcohol consumption can cause and that affects both individuals and not least society. I have noticed that the Stortinget will ask the government to present a national alcohol strategy that describes how the alcohol policy objectives of reducing alcohol consumption can be achieved. I believe that alcohol policy is and should be an integral part of both public health policy and drug policy and that it should be seen in the context of these areas. In my view, it would therefore be more appropriate to treat the alcohol field in the forthcoming public health report. With regard to the other proposals, I am pleased that the Stortinget does not take decisions to implement them now – both because it is unclear to what extent the measures will have an effect, and because several of the proposals should not be adopted without a thorough investigation. But I hear from the pulpit that there can still be a majority for some of the proposals, and I can only encourage the representatives to consider a thorough investigation. This government has decided that the main lines of the alcohol policy should be fixed. This means that we should continue to use the most effective instruments, such as monopoly schemes, licensing schemes, fees, limited opening hours, age limits and advertising bans. With regard to labelling, this is regulated at EU level and Norway is not free to introduce national labelling requirements. I will follow developments in the EU closely in both industry's proposals for self-regulation and the EU Commission's assessment of the situation. I am concerned that the population should be aware of the potential adverse effects of alcohol use, and that children and young people should be protected from both alcohol consumption and the harmful effects of other people’s alcohol use. This is what we are doing well to achieve today. I am sure that we all want to reduce the alcohol use and not least the damage caused by it. I believe that these objectives are pursued through the broad lines of today's alcohol policy. Policy adjustments will always need to be assessed. In that case, the government will return to a national strategy if the Storting asks to be presented to it. I would have preferred to see individual proposals only mentioned, but not specifically promoted, to ensure that a national strategy could become more dynamic and have a coherent approach.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e789	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e794	The Party's action programme on which the party was elected states that the Progress Party will eliminate the regulation of opening, selling and giving times, reduce the alcohol charge and liberalise the alcohol law. However, in the vote we can read that the Progress Party on the Stortinget believes that local authorities should make local decisions to reduce the turnout times, that alcohol policy should be restrictive, and that universal regulatory instruments should be continued. To the Progress Party: I'm a little confused. Perhaps the Council of State can clarify.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e801	State Council Åse, standing here, represents the government's policy. We are very clear that our alcohol policy is firm, as I mentioned in my article, where I also addressed the individual points. That's what I'm responsible for, that I work with, that's my goal. I'm dealing with the existing alcohol legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e806	It is gratifying to see that there are different attitudes – what you have gone to, and what you write in comments – when you clearly write that you want to reduce taxes and have liberalisation, but nevertheless the whole heart of the remarks that say the opposite. But I want to look at the prevention work. In the prevention work, it is important to play on teams with all the good forces. In the notes we can read that the Progress Party believes that awareness of attitudes towards alcohol in the workplace should be strengthened and that Akan’s competence centre should be raised and strengthened. How does the Council of State view this in the context of its government policy and that she has just been involved in providing a budget that cuts in just support for the Akan?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e813	The government has been concerned that the public sector should use ‘best practice’ in its drug prevention work. As part of this, among other things, The Health Directorate, in cooperation with the social partners and a number of other areas of expertise, has developed RusOff, i.e. technical advice on drug prevention in the public sector. Councils were launched in 2017, and Akan Centre of Competence is an important driver of a working life with reflected attitudes to drugs. A recent evaluation confirms that Akan is doing an important job, both as a centre of competence and as a first-line service. The government wants to contribute to a continued strong commitment to Akan cooperation and working life with the same attitudes to alcohol use and drug use.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e820	The Council of State argues in its intervention against the proposal for an alcohol strategy and states that this should rather be included in the public health report. But we have a tobacco strategy, we have a diet strategy, and it's strategies for hepatitis and diabetes. With the arguments of the Council of State, none of these should be included in the public health notice. And it's very strange, I think, that there should be a difference between that: that one should have a tobacco strategy, but absolutely not an alcohol strategy. Can the Minister of Public Health explain more about the background to such an aversion to developing an alcohol strategy?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e827	I don't have an aversion to looking at the challenges we're facing in the field of alcohol. And as I was also clear, we're all aware that there are challenges there. We know that the alcohol field is demanding — for both individuals and society. But I think it's important to be flexible. It is important to be able to include this area in the public health communication without knocking through such specific proposals. I think some of these proposals may well be concrete, but it is not really clear how this should be seen in the context. That's the main reason, as I also said in my post. I want to be flexible, just to see a context, just to be able to lift this area into public health, which is important to us when we present it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e833	Now we are not discussing ‘life for life’, but it is a little important to point out that in the hearings we attended, it was stressed that there is no particular focus on alcohol abuse among the elderly in society. Then my question to the Council of State is whether she shares this concern. And to what extent may older people be given a place in a national alcohol strategy?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e838	I think what the representative addresses here, older people and alcohol use, is an important reminder to all of us that this is a challenge. In the ‘lifelong life’ – as the representative mentioned here – this is just one of the themes of the preventive home visit to see and visit the elderly: What is the stand? So what does that look like? What are the challenges? Do you have anyone around you? Loneliness is something that we also know can trigger just this challenge. Now that it seems that there is a majority in favour of presenting a national strategy, this is an important area that also fits in here. I see that there are different challenges from where you are in life – young people are struggling with one challenge, older people with something else. But seeing the context -- as I said -- is what's important, so we see how we have an overall approach to the challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e845	The council said it was good to be reminded that older people also had challenges on the alcohol side. We are reminded every year of statistics that people die in traffic because of alcohol, and of 50,000 to 150,000 young people who live with parents who have a risky alcohol consumption. I wonder how the Council of State sees itself as protecting about these kids if one is not to have concrete objectives, concrete actions and concrete measures. How will the Council of State be able to help all those who are around a person who abuses alcohol if one is not to have concrete actions and objectives?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e850	We have not said that when we present the public health report, which is the right place for this, we should not have concrete objectives and concrete measures in it. That's exactly what we're working on. But what's important is to see a context, so we don't do anything that hasn't been done well enough, and that might knock your legs out under another area. In addition, it is part of these proposals that have to be both anchored and done a good job in other departments. That's exactly what I would have had here, a cross-ministerial cooperation with regard to the public health message coming, just to raise the challenges that are there. I see a context in the challenges facing children and young people, and seeing the family together. As I've already said in public space, we have to be early on, look at the individual child already in kindergarten and like before, too, so that not only the individual child as an individual is seen, but the family as well. But this has to go into a bigger context, and it belongs to what comes in public health. I have promised that the message that is coming will be wide, and it will be good.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e855	Then the line change is over. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e862	Alcohol abuse is serious. There are many good intentions in these proposals, but there is little substance, and there is a lot of symbolism. There is a proposal that the Vinmonopole should take over the tax-free sale, but it will therefore be presented with an impact assessment of very soon. A proposal for the labelling of alcohol content to provide good consumer information, I agree, but there is a limited possibility today because of the EU, and the government announces that they are working on the matter. Proposals have been made to reduce smuggling, and it is definitely important for the Progress Party as well. The government is already betting on border control – 120 more customs officers, cameras with recording equipment at border crossings and ferry terminals with foreign traffic and national intelligence and analysis centre. Alcohol and tobacco currently account for 75 pst. of all seizures, and the customs office has had a record high seizures in 2017. The toll is taking the challenge of alcohol smuggling seriously and is making a great effort today. These are other proposals I think are more symbolic policies. Today we have alcohol legislation in Norway that is incredibly strict. The central party will reverse the latest change in the tax-free quota, the Christian People's Party will reduce the maximum turnout time from 3.00 p.m. 3 a.m. to 3 p.m. 2 and force the municipalities to increase the fee for the sales and donation sites to 1 pst. of the turnover. Together with the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party will introduce health warnings on alcoholic beverages. This smells moralism and premise. Almost everyone knows that alcohol should not be combined with pregnancy or driving. Labelling alcohol with health warnings will have no effect except it is likely to oblige manufacturers to relabel the bottles. It seems like the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party are looking for new bans. Last week they proposed a ban on solarium advertising; this week they would like alcohol to be labelled with health warnings. What's the next one going to be? Everything's dangerous. Should we label noise with warnings because too much sugar can lead to diabetes, should we label red meat that it may be unhealthy and increase CO 2 emissions, should we label high heels because the chance of tripping is greater? It's dangerous to drive a car, it's dangerous to go smoothly, it's dangerous to eat too much, and it's dangerous to eat too little. We can't notice everything that's dangerous, with health warnings. It will not actually eliminate alcohol abuse. I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Workers' Party on introducing another ban.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e876	Only very briefly: the Labour Party is promoting a proposal today alone, proposal No. 15, and SV is going to support that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e881	Today we could get a majority to reverse the latest extension of the tax-free regime. I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to read aloud from the annual reports of the Vinmonopolet. I begin with the 2014 Annual Report: ‘New import quotas for wine in exchange for tobacco, which came on 1 July 2014, have led to a reduction in the market shares of the Vinmonopole.’ I am moving on to the 2017 Annual Report: the increase in the share of the Solberg government in 2014 has resulted in a reduction in the sales of the Vinmonopole and the erosion of the monopoly system. I could continue from the Annual Report to the Annual Report. This is a golden opportunity for the Christian People's Party to pass by. It is sad to see that the road choices made also have a direct impact on alcohol policy, an alcohol policy that we know is in the hands of the Christian People's Party. I also notice the comments from the Progress Party when it comes to health warnings on beverages. It is fascinating to hear that there is a hoax with fetuses that can cause serious alcohol damage. Saying that this is the same thing as eating a little too much red meat or going with high heels, I don't think the debate is worth it. If you go to the Wine Monopoly today and buy a bottle of red wine, for example, there are already many bottles that have this kind of health warnings, because they are produced in countries that have these kinds of schemes. I am sure that if this comes on all bottles, it will not prevent people who want to buy that bottle of red wine. I believe that this may be a necessary and important reminder for people in a vulnerable situation, where their decisive choice means much to either the child in the stomach or those they meet in the traffic. This does not deserve to be confused with, because small reminders may be what makes right choices to be made in critical situations.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e899	I would first like to comment on the last speaker said: I fully agree with and would like to agree with that proposal today, but because we are sitting in the debate on the budget, it is difficult for the Christian People's Party. This proposal has been in the Committee since February this year, and had we changed it to 1 January 2020, it had also been before the draft budget of the Workers' Party, and they could have incorporated it, and we could actually agree on that in the Chamber today. I want to respond to what was said about symbol policy: noting wine bottles for the sake of pregnant women is not something that Norway has come up with; there are other countries that use this. And for those of us who've been in the prematurity department with kids who've been in their mother's stomach under a lot of alcohol, this is not a symbol policy. This is about kids who are struggling with this and with concentration all their lives. I think it's almost disrespectful to have such a debate, at this level, towards the kids involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e906	There has been a slightly new situation in the Health Committee's debates after we got a new Minister of Public Health and have got a new representative from the Progress Party in the Committee who in the last two debates consistently argues against what the Minister of Public Health should be for. This means that the credibility of the Minister of Public Health is weakened by the fact that she has, until those degrees, little support in a party of her own. It is also evident in this debate. I am responding to the representative Bruun-Gundersen who drew the map of prefiguration and moralism in this debate, to score cheap points. It's probably well received in FrP countries, but here we have a debate on public health policy and alcohol policy, and I think it's on the verge of being unprofessional. When it comes to health warnings in wine bottles, the question is clear: why should alcohol be excluded from other foods with substances harmful to the unborn child? That's what we're talking about. Alcohol is harmful to the unborn child. Why not select it every day? Why should alcohol be exempted from other foods? The same applies to driver cards. It is quite reasonable that the purchaser of a medicine should be noted whether use constitutes a danger to traffic. It's about informing the people so they can make independent choices. As it is today, the information is held back. I thought that the Progress Party could be involved in this – at least now when they have negotiated to get a Minister of Public Health. Comparing it with the ban on tall heels and red meat becomes so unprofessional that there's almost no reason to spend time on it, but now I'm doing it anyway – that's the way it is. We support the tax-free proposal put forward by the Labour Party. But I can understand that the Christian People's Party cannot go into it when they are in budgetary negotiations. I know well that the Christian People's Party has been very opposed to the tax-free increase, so I shouldn't doubt what is the actual position of the Christian People's Party in this matter. To the Christian People's Party, I just have to say good luck, because this is probably not a very simple job. The central party supports the loose proposal of the Labour Party, proposal No. 15, but I would also like to say that we support proposal No. 12, from SV, in the setting. I think it might come in addition to the other suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e917	Alcohol policy is not symbolism policy. Alcohol is the most harmful drug we have. I'm a trained poison mixer myself. Alcohol is not the most potent drug we have, but it is absolutely what causes the most damage both socially, medically and in every way possible. That is why it is in the interests of society to pursue a restrictive alcohol policy — and we do so in Norway. Norway has a restrictive alcohol policy, and we are behind it. I do not support all the characteristics given by my colleague from the Progress Party, but I still disagree with some of these proposals. As far as tax-free allowances are concerned, I dare to remind the House that the previous extension of tax-free allowances was made quite many years ago under the government of Stoltenberg-II. What this government has done is to make it possible to switch from tobacco to alcohol. There was no extension of the scheme. It was a change of plan. So the previous enlargement came under Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen. It is important to have it with us when reading annual reports. We also see that it has led to a shift, but it was part of the argument that people might have taken with less tobacco this way. In the case of taxes, Norway has a very high level of taxes on alcohol compared to any neighbouring country. This presents some challenges – one thing is border trade, but also illegal through smuggling. We have big challenges with smuggling, even with beer. We can see that, among other things. in my home country, where there have been rolled up large smugglers based on the smuggling of beer, among others. from Germany. These are criminal networks, including: motorbike threads, behind them. That is why I am sceptical about a further strange extension of the fees. That's my main argument against increasing the taxes on alcohol. When it comes to marking, there's one thing I got engaged to several years ago. I have even called for progress in the work, but it is not smart, as I see it, with a strange branding scheme. The EU exemption for food labelling, which exempts alcoholic products from both nutritional, calorie and most, I do not see the logic of. Nor do I see any logic that Norway is going to create a strange system, so I repeat my call to get ahead of that work. There is the government that has to press the EU, and I perceive that the Minister of Public Health has said something about it. That's the strategy. Kjersti Top of the Center Party says we have an aversion to an alcohol strategy. We do not have that, but, as I explained in the debate last week, we have a little problem with all the strategies, messages and action plans that we want to adopt. In sum, it doesn't go up. It is much better for the government to work together to get this out, and that has been well explained by the Minister of Public Health today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e933	Alcohol under pregnancy is not good. Fortunately, Norwegian women drink much less during pregnancy than in the rest of Europe. We're happy about that, but of course that doesn't mean the problem is solved. No child should experience that their mother drank too much alcohol during pregnancy. No child should experience growing up in families with severe alcohol problems. We need to have follow-up in maternity care to solve this problem. Women who are pregnant are currently receiving good maternity care, which addresses the problem of alcohol while pregnant in a good way and ensures that the pregnant person is well informed, so as to avoid drinking alcohol during pregnancy. This government has strengthened health centres, which also follow up mothers after they have had children, and beware that mothers have good information about the way you live when you have young children. My problem is that there's no evidence that labeling alcohol with a warning has any effect. There are several countries in Europe that have labelled alcohol with a health warning, but there is limited knowledge that it has any effect. I think it is unnecessary for the Storting to decide to have health warnings on alcohol when it appears that this is going to solve all the problems of alcohol abuse in this society and at the same time we know that it does not. I am to support the proposals that prove to have a good effect. I think today's maternity care and the follow-up at the health centres are very good. I think Norwegian women and men in this community are well-informed about the risk of combining high alcohol consumption with pregnancy and driving. I therefore believe that Norwegian women and men are able to think for themselves and make decisions based on the knowledge we already have today. That is why I agree that some of the effects of these proposals do not exist. Rather, we should spend the time concentrating on what's important.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e944	Elise Björnebeck-Waagen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e949	In order to meet the Christian People's Party, the Workers' Party has changed the wording of the loose proposal we are now presenting. What we are now promoting is: ‘The Government requests the reversal of the extension made by the tax-free scheme in 2014 from 1/1/2020.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e957	Then it's registered. The representative Olug V. Bollestad has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e964	I would like to thank the Labour Party for amending the proposal. Then the Christian People's Party will vote in favour of the proposal. I would also like to say that the debate that has now taken place says something about the challenges of the Progress Party's way of meeting this issue. That makes me particularly grateful for being able to change this in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e969	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e985	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that – within the allocated speaking time – up to five rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e994	National norms on the response of municipalities to an alcohol breach were introduced from 1 January 2015 following treatment in the Health and Care Committee in advance — which was unanimous — and subsequent decisions in the Stortinget. There was disagreement as to how many dots would apply before the municipalities could suspend the grant. There was disagreement about several things, but especially about it. But it ended up with twelve dots. The proposal by the representatives of Bollestad, Toppe and Wilkinson is about to tighten up, so that eight dots can be lost. It is part of the story that when this matter was dealt with, the Workers' Party also believed that eight dots were correct. Nevertheless, the Labour Party is part of the majority, which now does not want us to go in and make a change. It also has something to do with predictability for the industry, as the Joint Undertaking in particular points out. We want someone from the government to speed up the evaluation that the Public Health Institute is going to do. I say "let's do it," because I'm a little bit in doubt if they've started yet. Then we'll get a completely different knowledge of how this system works than we've been to now, as to how dots are allocated and the device on it all. Because when we have the opportunity to get that knowledge, I'd like to have it, sail if we meant what we meant then. That is why we do not support the proposal, and the majority vote goes in that direction. There were two municipalities involved in the committee. It was Bergen and Trondheim. The majority there – to put it that way – believe that what is contained in the proposal is a good idea, because they have experience with that sail. But there might be a difference between how different municipalities etc. will handle this, so an evaluation believes we can be smart. We have also noted the views of Juvente, IOGT and Actis, who would like to have stricter rules, but we have therefore chosen to focus on what industry organisations say – those who also work in several fields, among others. together with the Labour Inspectorate and the CS, etc., to see if a person can coordinate and bring about more comprehensive legislation and legislation. So it would be appropriate if a parallel could also look at it from the department. Otherwise, I agree with the Council of State that the most important thing is that the rules are followed, not that there are as many withdrawals as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1009	A restrictive alcohol policy is right, and it is right that strict requirements should be imposed on gift shops. It shall be easy to get a gift permit, and it shall be easy to lose it. That's the way it is today. Sometimes the tipping points lose the approval for reasons they don't have on their own. Adults may buy alcohol for minors and, in this way, the employees wonder, with the resultant risk of losing the grant — as an example. We have to have a restrictive policy, but there must be room for mistakes, and there must be room for the wrong-doer to show that a teacher of his faults, introduces new procedures and avoids repeating the error. That's why I think it's right to keep the current limit of twelve dots. One of the Norwegian qualities is the extensive tripartite cooperation. We have good experience with cooperation between authorities, employers and employees. The three parties work together to promote good employment and serious service activities in the food industry. They have also sent a joint input on challenges and possible solutions to the government. The Public Health Institute has established the Alcohol Act project in an outdoor context, to be completed by 2020. Both this project and the three-part outreach business programme will be an important contribution to ensuring the most serious industry with the least possible breach of the law. In other words, we believe that today's strict rules and requirements for the supply of alcohol are strict enough to ensure that the project from the Public Health Institute becomes public.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1024	The Central Party supports the principle of introducing national requirements with regard to the response of the municipalities to infringements of the alcohol laws da Prop. 58 L for 2014-2015 was discussed. However, we disagreed that the government would reduce the level of reaction – after the hearing round – before this matter was resolved. The donation of minors and the gift of excessive rushing people were adjusted down into the proposition, so that it would not automatically lead to a loss of legroom. For this reason, together with the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left, we argued that the most serious violations of alcohol legislation had to lead to the withdrawal of the platoon. That was the practice at the time in the big cities, like Oslo and Bergen. With the rules we have today, giving minors, which is defined as one of the most serious violations of alcohol laws, will no longer be an independent reason for the withdrawal of the leg. The same is true of the giving of superfluous people. We mean that the way it is today, with this weakening of the reaction level, one will also have a weakening of the alcohol legislation. We'll vote against the plural setting when Stortinget treats the matter. We mean the same thing now as then. We also fixed this program. So we – together with the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party – stick to the proposal, and I'll take it up now, so I've done it. I register that the Labour Party has turned around and will wait for a settlement. It's got to be, but the Center Party means this. I'm from Bergen, and I'm noticing that in Bergen they're clear on this matter right now. Then I react to what the representative, Erlend Larsen, said as a reason not to bring down the level of reaction – that there may have been a mistake, it may be a cause that there is no serious violation of alcohol laws. I would think it's very rare if one makes a serious violation of other laws, that one should in some way have the hold that yes, there might be an explanation, a foundation, which means that the level of reaction has to be lowered. I mean, a serious violation of alcohol laws is a serious offense. Then the level of reaction must be then.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1035	The representative Kjersti Toppe has drawn up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1040	The awarding system was introduced after a unanimous health and care committee agreed to develop national norms on the response of municipalities to infringements of the alcohol law. When the Stortinge dealt with the legislative proposal, there were differing views on the proposed legislation, including: the number of dots that would result in the withdrawal of the grant. I am aware that some major cities have had positive experience with a stricter regulation than the standard system implies. Switching to a standardised system that applies to all will have different consequences, depending on the strictness of the legislation – a more stringent system for municipalities that have made little use of the withdrawal possibilities, and a less stringent system for municipalities that have practised the legislation more stringently than the standard system provides. I agree that giving alcohol to minors is serious. This seriousness is reflected in the regulation by the fact that infringements of this provision should lead to the imposition of eight dots. When twelve dots are earned during a two-year period, the appropriations will be suspended for at least one week. The objective of establishing a standardised system was to ensure non-discrimination and predictability for the holder of the authorisation. It was also intended to ensure that municipalities would use the instruments actually contained in the legislation. The important thing is that the holder of the authorisation complies with the legislation, not that there are as many withdrawals as possible. The insertion of dots without the withdrawal of the appropriations could lead to the holder of the authorization rectifying deviations and tightening up the procedures. We have been entrusted with the task of evaluating the standard rules for the withdrawal of appropriations. It is planned that the evaluation will run until 2021. It shall include, inter alia: figures are obtained from the administration of the alcohol law by municipalities, and the evaluation is to look in particular at municipalities that have and have had projects for cooperation between industry, municipalities and the police. I will not rule out the need for adjustments in the normal system as a result of this evaluation. It is important to know how the system of standardised rules works, and I will examine the possibilities for speeding up the evaluation, as requested by the Committee. However, I would like to stress that, in my view, it is important that the evaluation is thorough and goes over a period of time long enough to assess the impact of the change. I take with me the recordings that came from the case rapporteur, the representative of Hagebakken.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1051	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1056	I'll be brief. First of all, it is good that the evaluation will focus on municipalities where you have cooperation between industry, municipalities and the police, not least with regard to prevention and not just punishment. As far as we are concerned, we are asking the government to make sure that the evaluation is speeded up – there we have a small amount of input where it says ‘if possible’. Then I thought I would ask the Council of State, who has known about this for a little while now: how does she view the possibility of doing it? And if so, when can we have it? Otherwise, I think it is good that the Council of States has an open position to be able to make changes if the evaluation so warrants.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1063	What has been important for me to look at exactly what the representative Hagebaken here is bringing up, this in being able to speed up, is: have we come far enough? I'm waiting for answers from the Institute of Public Health, if we've gained enough knowledge to speed up. That is why I will not conclude here and now. I think it's important, as I also see the representative here, that there's quality in the work we're doing. We're going to figure out something that's really useful for the municipalities out there, so this works – something I think we're completely in agreement about.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1068	The cord shift is over. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1086	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will suggest that, within the allocated speaking time, six rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time are given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1095	I refer you to Prop on behalf of the Committee. 102 S for 2017-2018 Revised financing scheme for E6 Helgeland Nord, incl. improving the route Krokstrand centrum-Bolna, in Northernland. The project is a repair of a distance of 13 kilometers. In addition, an additional toll station shall be built. A revised funding will ensure the coherent implementation of all sections of the E6 Helgeland North project. A new toll station with two-way collection shall be established on Bolna, where collection is based for 15 years. In the two existing toll stations Skamdal and Reinforshei, the collection period is extended from 15 to 18 years. The Committee notes that the project will be carried out as part of existing road development contracts, which will be cost-effective in relation to making improvements later. It is added to completion in 2020. The cost framework for the work is 301 million. SEK in the 2018 price level. Reparation is assumed to be financed by tolls, and there is local support for this in the municipality of Rana and in the county of Nordland. The Committee's recommendation is promoted by a single committee and is based on three points, which can be summarised briefly as follows: power to carry out the project consent to borrowing and toll collection; power of supplementary agreement and detailed rules I also want to add some comments. It's really nice to get all the sections of project E6 Helgeland North that were adopted during the 2013–2014 major period. E6 is a very important road, which extends throughout the country and up to the churches. Bismagen is of course that cost increases in 2015 and 2016 have now led the Council of State to request a third toll station in the Helgeland North area. This road section is on the south side of the Salt Mountain, not far from the polar circle. This is close to the most beautiful mountain trips anyone can imagine. Therefore, I would like to point out that it is important that good parking spaces are created along the road, which has been clarified by the municipality of Rana in its consultation. Now it's actually 50 years since it was opened a full year's way over the Salt Mountain. The new route across the Salt Mountains was completed in 1990. 25 years ago, in 1993, new E6 was also built through my home built in Saltdal. But the new road only came to Borkamo, and there was again a real bottleneck on the north side of the Salt Mountain. It is very good that the stretch Krokstrand–Bolna does not remain as a similar bottleneck on the south side of Saltberg when Helgeland north ends. It is unfortunate that exceedances in the road project lead to a reduction in planned road safety measures in the area, and I hope they will come into place eventually. Finally, I cannot avoid regret that the mentioned E6 bottleneck on the north side of the Salt Mountain is not being repaired now – while the Mountain Tunnel on Rv. Seventy-seven is almost done. It would have been a real pleasure if we could have driven the whole E6 from Saltdal over the Salt Mountain to Hemnes in one good distance.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1122	E6 Helgeland North has been treated in the United Kingdom in the past and is also mentioned in several state budgets and not least in NTPs. The 2016 government budget announced cost increases, and the following year it was assumed that the size of the expansion would be reduced so that the cost framework would not be exceeded. Here we have a revised proposal for financing, so that one of the sections that were taken out, the Krokstrand centrum-Bolna, can be completed as part of the road development contract of the rest of the E6 Helgeland north – and we are back on track. The increased costs are proposed to be financed by tolls at a new toll station on Bolna for 18 years. In addition, the collection period at the existing tolling stations is extended from 15 to 18 years. The cost is set at 301 million. kr. It is expected that costs will be significantly reduced by doing so, instead of having a call for tenders in its own right between 2024 and 2029. The best thing is that it is added to plant start-up in the year and completion in 2020. Then we have to say in the Workers' Party that, like the municipality of Nordland and the municipalities in question, we are concerned about the road safety measures taken out of the project. We are very pleased that this route can be realised and finished as planned, but I think we need to take a discussion about cost estimates, budget headings and about when the projects are to be integrated into the national transport plan. We believe that the time is ripe for a new road reform, especially in view of the establishment of New Roads and, above all, the regional reform. So, in this case, it's a little ironic that we're now putting in a bomb like Solvik-Olsen so jubilee took away not so long ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1135	The introductory part refers to forecasting cost increases in Prop. 1 S for 2015-2016. I Prop. 1 S for 2016-2017 was foreseen to reduce the size of the extension, so that the cost framework was not exceeded. Later, in the national transport plan, it was assumed that the two northernmost sections, Krokstrand Centrum and Krokstrand–Bolna, were taken out of the road development contract and implemented for the last six-year period, 2024–2029. By completing the two northernmost parcels in the direct extension of the parcels further south, as the ministry now proposes, a faster and more rational and comprehensive construction of the entire section up to the Salt Mountain is achieved. I think the ministry is proposing that the increased costs be financed by roadside tolls by establishing a new toll station on Bolna in addition to an extended toll collection period of 15 to 18 years for the existing toll stations on Skamdal and Reinforshei. I assume that any exceedances in addition to the cost framework are the responsibility of the State, and that the containment is done by state resources – without any negative impact on other national road projects in the Nordic countries, nor does it lead to an increase in toll rates along the Helgeland North. Several road projects at E6 in Helgeland are defined as development projects, where private contractors are responsible for significant parts of road construction. This has led to faster and more rational progress. It is important that good experience from this is continued when planning new road projects. The state’s own road company, Nye Veier AS, should also be used in Northern Ireland to achieve shorter construction time and greater efficiency and to complete at a lower price than the State Road Service appears to be able to cope under its own control. Over 20 pst. of the government's increased investment in transport appropriations goes to North Norway. It is alpha and omega for the national economy, and it is very important to get products out to consumers in the domestic and foreign countries. Fresh fish do not like to stay overnight on the roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1150	I am pleased that the Committee has agreed to develop this project in line with the government's proposal. At the same time, I think there is reason to be honest that this project also shows what is still one of the most fundamental challenges in the transport sector, namely that the cost we estimate when the Stortinget adopts a national transport plan, in too many projects it turns out to be higher when a real start to development. It gives cause for concern, because I feel that both government and Storting's ambition with national transport plans is not to spend the most money possible, but to realize the most possible projects. For this reason, both the Stortinget, the Government and the various actors that control the development of infrastructure in Norway still have a job to do to help ensure that there is sufficient incentive to stick to the cost framework. However, this project is an important project, contributing to a holistic expansion of E6 in Helgeland North, but it is also more than that; it is part of a continuous, major effort to develop E6 throughout the country, one of our most important trajectories. Those who take the initiative to try to run the whole thing will see that they have been and are going a lot of roadwork along several important trails. With this proposal, to which the Stortinget joins today, we follow up the call decision that was given to us in connection with the national transport plan. I am therefore pleased that we will be able to keep up the progress of this project as early as 2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1159	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1164	I am also very happy today that we are now able to complete the road section of the E6 Helgeland right up to the Salt Mountain as intended. Had we not had this done, we had a situation with a great new E6 right up to Krokstrand and then suddenly switched to a completely different standard, that is, a standard breach, until you returned to Saltberg. We agree that this is not the way to build. But what we're not solving with this is the proposals that contained on road safety measures for the soft road users. They are not funded in this package. There is a new cross in the E6 Basket Centre, a new walk and cycle path between Finneidfjord and Bjerka, both in the municipality of Hemnes, and also some crossing point at E6 at Hauknes in Rana – to name a few. This is requested by the municipality, and it is also requested by Stortinget earlier. I would like to challenge the Council of State whether he will help to ensure that funds are also provided in the future to solve the projects contained in the Road Package Helgeland, so that we can also resolve these security measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1171	First, once you have selected such a road development contract, you have the same model to manage as you have done in, for example: urban growth agreements, that means portfolio management. This means that the only safe way to realize all the projects is to stick to the cost framework that Stortinget has agreed to. That means I'm an important signal to anyone who builds a road in Norway. The frameworks that Size determines the size of the permissions are not guidebooks, they are actually real, and it requires good financial management in the future. I do not overlook the fact that, through the resources of the NTP, both traffic safety measures and minor measures along the national road to improve road safety, projects can also be carried out on Helgeland. We don't have a detailed project list of it now, but I have also noticed the local requests for it. We'll get back to it at a later rate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1178	Yes, it is true that if there are cost excesses, you have to look at cuts. That's what was also happening to the E6 road itself. What is unfortunate now – and I see an overall committee agreeing – is that this time road safety measures are being affected, which is also a priority area of both government and enlargement. Nor are the large amounts associated with the large investments that take place across the E6 Helgeland. I am pleased with the Council of State being willing to take along the clear signals from the Storting and look at it. The question is then: does this mean that you have the opportunity to look at it in the context of the annual budgets, or do you have to expect to wait for the next main roll of the NTP?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1183	When I say that there is no specific project list, that means that I do not make that assessment in Stortinget, we do that when we actually get the professional recordings. What is absolutely crucial – and I want to remind the Storting about too – is that we have a billion. kr in NTP, and there's a terrible amount of money. It's a terriblely ambitious national transport plan, but we're not going to be able to realize all the projects if one doesn't align with the frameworks of each project, actually debt. This means that also on road safety measures, for which we are all a few that we are in favour, the necessary priorities take place annually. What we need to get even better control over in order to realize important traffic safety measures is financial management, project management, so that we experience over time that the frameworks of the Stortinget have been established, in fact they are a success. With that, we realize the project within the framework that one has received.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1189	What you see in this project, the development contract used in Helgeland, is that you have got good results, you have got a lot of money back. There is, of course, a price increase here, and some changes have also been made to the quality requirement in the course of the process – among others. from 80 to 90 km/h on some routes — resulting in an increase in costs. There are also some political choices that have been made in this regard. So I don't want to say that it's really going on financial management, it's also things that have happened along the way. I also record that during the government change, you were early outside and said that you should not have the same large bomb load on Helgeland. It was proposed to remove the one bomb, which is being reintroduced today, and to put the tariffs on two others. Does the Council of State have any problem in actually going out and promising to remove the bomb when you come back with it anyway?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1196	The state part of these projects has increased beyond what was proposed by the Labour Party, it is important to remember. It's not that the government part gets smaller as a result of a funding this. The cost goes up. One has a local error advanced it, and the Storting has the error advanced it. Therefore, a locally proposed toll scheme has been used to finance it. The State part is larger than the Labour Party originally proposed. I am pleased to have received it, it would probably not have happened if the Labour Party had continued in government. This happened because there is a lot of government that is busy with lower tolls, not higher.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1201	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. It is gratifying that a total accumulation today will go to complete the E6 upgrade right up to Salt Mountain, which means that you get a good E6 through Helgeland once everything is done, and not least that what was on the roadside in the Helgeland North package. This is, as has been said by several, good not just for Helgeland and North Norway, it's good for the whole country. Of course, E6 is important to many people. We get this – as it also says in the case – thanks to local initiative, not least from the municipality of Rana and the municipality of Nordland. This in turn led to a change in the size of the government. You should also have that with you and not just stand here and be very satisfied with what the government has done. It must be borne in mind that the government actually proposed to stop the construction of the road at Krokstrand. This would result in an additional cost of over 200 million. kr to stop and restart the next NTP period, as proposed by the government. This proposal avoids using the option of cutting these two sections, which are now being completed. I believe that without the initiative locally, and not least the initiative of the Workers' Party in the Committee, we would not have had this matter on the table today. Then you can try a populist thing about how much money the Labour Party would spend. I think we should compete well in that competition. This is also an answer to the fact that you haven't managed to keep what you promised, especially from the government party Progress Party, which was very early populist about cutting the number of trees. Now that bomb is being put back, and you also extend the down payment time for the other two bombs. I guess that's what you can call – at least very close – a good election bluff from the Progress Party. Now that we're rusting up this distance, it's going to be good, as I said. But what we're not solving, as I was in the line change, is the problems for the soft road users. Unfortunately, more road safety measures are not being solved, and it is a pity that the soft road users are becoming the losers in such large projects – when we are spending so many billions on Helgeland. I am very pleased that an overall committee points this out, and I will – so to speak – follow closely that job and try to obtain these funds, which in the broadest sense are less resources compared to what is to be used on the road. There are walking and cycling routes, there are cross-resolutions, and there are solutions to get safely over the E6 that have not got their solution in this. But I interpret the signals from the council so that this is something he wants to take with him. First of all, we should be happy today that we have completed the E6 and then we hope that we will also find a solution to the challenges of road safety measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1218	In this case, as in the next case, there are probably some examples that the county must guarantee the roads they do not own, and they do not decide. It is with this case as with many others that the government – or the majority of the Stortinget, if you like – applies loan guarantees to county councils that may result in a lower rating for the lenders. Some county councils have now given so many guarantees that they will refuse further approval. What will result, we will probably soon see when, according to signals they have given, Rogaland County refuses to provide additional guarantees for the state's roads. We know that the State guarantee scheme is under assessment in the department, and we expect that the government now sees that the limit has been reached so that someone can provide guarantees for loans that they neither own nor dispose of. On the part of the Labour Party, we want the State to take over the guarantee liability for its own roads, and we are responding to a proposal from the Council of State to this effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1225	The representative Juvik is trying to give the impression that we haven't strengthened the government's rights to the projects on Helgeland North. It is not correct. It is not correct that one, as claimed, has tried on an valance. It's actually the case that one has brought more money, and the toll section in Helgeland North would have been bigger if we hadn't. So we don't have the bluff, as the representative Juvik calls it, if anything, we've adhered to the project and the framework that the Stortinget has promised, and that the government is following. The government is governed by the framework of the Stortinget permissions, and we have increased the state part after the Stortinget joined our proposal on it – a greater part than the Workers' Party had originally set up. It's okay to be free, but it's also a little bit exasperating to try to be, at least on Storting's pulpit. Therefore, I am pleased that we will get lower toll pressure now when we sit in government, than we would have if the Workers' Party were to crash. It would at least be nice if there was a connection between what the Labour Party said on this pulpit and what they did. But is there any suggestion from the Labour Party on the table today to increase the state part? No, there's no suggestion. It's okay that it's a saying, at least it's kind of linked if it's going to be an experimentally tall and dark. The loan guarantee liability of the county councils is not linked to the fact that they guarantee responsibility they do not have. In fact, for me to come to Stortinget with a toll bill, it is required that there is local connection to it. That means that at the moment one takes on wanting to give the bill through tolls in their own municipality or county, it's not that one just gets to do it without it having any consequences for yourself. A project must be guaranteed because real bindings are placed on those who use the road. So there's a connection between who has responsibility and initiative in toll cases, just local authorities, and what guarantee liability triggers for local authorities. Hence, this is not really a big hokuspocus. I realize that the tax on guarantee liability is high for some states, mainly because they have set a very large number of toll projects going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1236	What I took the floor for was that this is really a joyous day for transportation in Northern Ireland. When the representative Juvik was in the pulpit, the opposite was the impression. I want to correct that picture. What has now happened, and still happens, in Helgeland, is that it smells asphalt all over the village. The prosperity of the E6 has become and is becoming something other than it has been for decades. The negativity you try to create with regard to the government's prioritisation of this project is not real. We also have to bear in mind that under this government, the transport budget has increased by 75 pst. since 2013. I think we should agree that this is a successful project. It's been a crack – yes. There have been local initiatives for cooperation, and the government and the Stortinget today meet the invitation for cooperation. So I think we should be proud that we're capable of lifting up, instead of trying to talk down an amazingly good project, which has also been accomplished in an excellent way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1251	First to the Council of State: I won't try to claim to be tall and not so very dark, but I'm trying to point out some facts around the Helgeland road package. I know it so far very well. I agreed to plan it from day one. That the government will now try to be high and dark in terms of what has happened there – there is at least no major reason why the undersigned was perceived that way. The reality is at least that the first government council did when he got into their offices was that he stopped the road package Helgeland. What he did then was to remove the one bomb, which is being brought back today. It is a reality. Yes, it was a cost increase, and it's been solved, but it's not primarily the government that has done it, it's the Stortinge that has done it. After pressure from municipalities and counties, the Stortinget has changed the setting of the NTP. Of course, you don't like it today, but it's also a reality. So it's not that it's with Solvik-Olsen in the head – and the government – it was lifted up. They proposed to stop at Krokstrand and spend a few hundred million more on starting up again in six to seven years. That's the reality of the NTP. Fortunately, you have found a solution to that, and you have it today. To the representative of Finstad: either he was not in the room when I kept my post, or he did not listen. I actually started my post by saying that it is good that a total accumulation will complete the E6 upgrade, and I finished my post with – I have it here – that today we are primarily to be happy that we are now completing the E6 up to Salt Mountain. Both parts I said in my post. I started positive, and I ended up positive, and then I pointed out some things that are not part of this solution, which is right. The Committee has also pointed that out. Unfortunately, road safety measures have fallen due to the economy – that they have not been able to solve it. I think that is justified. It was pointed out by a joint committee, and then it was only to be lacking that it was not possible also to point it out from the pulpit without being called high and dark.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1260	Now it's like the government, or I'd rather say the Councils of State in the Ministry of Transport, must soon stop saying that it's local a demanded toll. So it's government and massaging that requires tolls for you to build roads at all. It's de facto like that. E39 is a good example of why tolls are increasing, because it's not like the drivers out there feel they're paying less tolls. They have never paid as much toll as they are now, and E39 is a good example of why costs are rising. In the years before this government, or previous government, took over in 2013, there had been big conversations about which way one needed from Kristiansand to Stavanger. One agreed, was three-field road, alternately, with pass-by fields and division. Then the sitting government came and said that no, it should not be, there should be four fields and 110 km/h all the way, despite the fact that the Road Administration and local authorities – all – agreed on a three-field road with a division. So it's not nice that costs are increasing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1267	I am sorry that I signed up late for the debate, but I have to say I react a little when my good colleague Langholm Hansen from the West is talking about the development of the E39 and the financing of major road projects. He may have a small point about who is responsible for financing the state's roads, but I would also like to point out that the representative from the Workers' Party is sitting in a glass house. The current government has done nothing but continue a system introduced by the Workers' Party. I must be able to allow myself to say that you are sitting in a glass house when you are criticizing a system you have introduced, and forget the important fact that we have actually tried to simplify and improve the system that the Workers' Party introduced, including. a toll reform in which we have removed a total of 55 bomb companies in order to achieve more efficient and rational operation, and also to improve financial muscles to be able to take responsibility for financing the development. The last comment from the representative Langholm Hansen I reacted to was that it would be significantly cheaper to build a two-three-field E39 versus a four-field. Unfortunately, we've heard that claim before, several times, especially from the left and maybe some bureaucrats, but it's a claim that's wrong. We've seen more examples of this, and it's pretty interesting to see that this claim obviously still lives in the best of luck. If you don't have very, very many bridges and a lot of tunnel blasting, there's a minimal cost difference between a two-three and a four-field. It's the other way around. It is heavy-wine and looting and binding for the construction industry to drive and build in and out, inside and out – narrow and wide - in relation to having a continuous uniform, equal, standard straight ahead. We look at this example in E16 – perhaps a very good example – where the Road Administration, in order to save money, thinks in the same way as the representative from the Workers' Party, goes back to two and a little woodfields, while New Roads manage to come up with a proposal where they propose four-field roads without increased costs and 110 km/h, versus two- and a little three-field and 90 km/h. That, I think, is a good example that I recommend to the representative of the Workers' Party to take a good look at, in order to compare costs, efficiency and societal benefits in road construction.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1278	I really didn't mean to say so much about the things that are about transportation here in the hall today. There is largely agreement on them. I must also say that the things that are here in the Chamber today underline at least one thing, that one notices that SV is a road party – for the districts. It is quite essential to underline. There is a great difference between our fastness to build four-field highways near towns and towns and to build district roads. There's a very big difference. I'm asking one to notice that. One can also see how much road one gets for money in the districts, where the roads mean enormous, and where that's the only option, in relation to motorways in densely built struts and urban struts. So there's this thing about tolls, but first of all maybe walking paths: the representative Juvik said there's a defect here, and that's it. I would then like to refer to alternative budgets. This is a budgetary question – there is nothing else. All have to increase the grant for walking and cycling on these items in their alternative budgets. The government has to do it in its proposition, in its government budget. They don't. It is pitifully little that goes to walking and cycling paths. The left has probably struggled to get a few more kilometers, but they don't get that much either. It is a question of money, and it is a matter of priority, and we think it smells a little green from the transport budget that has been presented, with regard to road safety and soft road users. So all the way to the end of this with tolls. Was that word ‘reality’ here? – I think it was referred to as ‘reality’, or a very related word. I will admit that the Progress Party has tried to bring down the toll percentage. They've got something. But when they say at the same time that they're going to get rid of the toll percentage completely, I'm asking the question whether we can't bring up and clear the word "reality" again. Is that fair? How's it going? I have asked several times how the Progress Party will manage to finance its beautiful roads without tolls. How is that possible? Where are they going to take it from? Is it welfare money? The City Council refers to urban growth agreements, where county councils, municipalities and local forces could take money from something else. They don't have to take tolls, they say. No, they don't need it formally, but they don't have a choice, of course, because it's not going to go beyond high school or health. And with regard to the big roads across the districts, the highways, how will the councils manage to finance them without tolls? I don't get it, but maybe it's because I'm relatively new in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1290	It is touching to hear that the Workers' Party and SV are concerned about tolls. Then the Progress Party has come quite far, if that is a truth. When the Workers' Party's representatives are concerned that there is an increased share of tolls and they are called for a lower toll share, I expect the Workers' Party to vote against its own alternative budget when we deal with it, and vote for the government's budget, where it is, among other things. half a billion – as the Labour Party votes against every year in Stortinget – to reduce tolls. I expect that the Labour Party has also put a number of proposals into its budget on all the road projects that have been said to have in the NTP. If not, it might be a bluff -- not that I would use that word, President, but I would describe it that way. When SV is also concerned about how to deal with tolls, they can help the Progress Party and the government by voting for the half billion in grants for lower tolls. This means that, among other things: the project we are now discussing will be entitled to receive such a grant. I expect that when the Workers' Party is concerned about the drivers, you will also vote in favour of the government's budget later this fall, because it also provides for people to buy new and safe cars. That'll be wise.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1299	What seemed to be three simple toll propositions seems to be taking off, and we're left with a discussion about tolls. If the representative Stordalen had read the Labour Party's proposal for a State budget, he would have seen that we support the proposals of the Progress Party. What has worried us every year is the cost of having an application-based system. It is the Workers' Party's concern that the Progress Party is proposing that local and regional politicians be involved in what the Storting actually puts them in, saying that if you want to get away, you have to come in with tolls. The Labour Party believes that the Advance Party is irresponsible. We see that there's a big uprising against tolls out there, because they make the differences between people increase. That's what's occupying the Workers' Party. That is why we have put forward proposals on road pricing and investigation. Then we hope, if the Progress Party wants to remove the bombs, that they support that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1306	I feel a little obliged to respond to our good colleague from SV about how the Progress Party wants to finance the road development. I can repeat our good, old primary policy for it. The main principle is that the construction of four-field motorways and 110 km/h is profitable, socially sound, leading to investment, ring-fence, economic growth, housing and employment — only positive. Consequently, it is natural to look at the use of oil money in order to invest in such projects that are socially viable. I remember the rule of action was 3.5 pst. before the Party of Advancement became a government. Then we shut up because we wanted to spend more oil money. Now today's government has lowered the rule of action to 3 pst. In the 2019 budget, we're actually just using 2.7 pst. So there's room for spending more oil money to continue building the country – for the benefit of the city and the country and everyone who lives a bit piggy, and for the business community, who's going to transport goods and provide services. I hope SV is satisfied with that answer, although I expect that they would preferably drive a train or bike or leave. But there's not necessarily any contradiction in that. As far as road pricing is concerned, as the Workers' Party came into being completely on the tap, I don't know if we're going to take the chance to start a debate on it now. But very briefly, I would say that it's just a new way to camouflage the toll costs, which will in any case be applied to the drivers. It might be even worse than tolls, because then everyone will have to start paying extra, no matter where you drive and what standard road the road should have, regardless of whether there are four fields and 110 km/h or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1315	The left cannot fail to participate in a debate on road development and not least on funding, because there is really a lot of exciting up here. It is a unanimous committee, and it will be a unanimous enlargement that will adopt this, but it does not sound as if we are fully in agreement on a number of principles. I think it is very important that it is a local initiative when requesting funding through user involvement. It's important for the whole country, not just for this project. Here, the municipality of Rana and the municipality of Nordland have agreed to do it this way. There has certainly been a good political and democratic process to come up with those points of view, and then I think the Storting should respect that they want to have it this way. I don't think, as the Labour Party says, that now the Storting has ordered them to do it. No, it's actually a local initiative, which has wanted to improve that road project in a simpler and faster way. We have to respect that. The debate on road pricing is exciting in itself. We're going to have a hearing right over New Year's. I will be the rapporteur on that matter, and I am pleased to look at the different points of view and not least debate that matter in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1326	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1342	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to six replies from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1351	Let me first of all thank the Committee for its excellent cooperation. In this matter, there is also an overall committee that is behind it – a unanimous committee – so there will probably be a short debate. But the matter is no less important for that. This is about fv. 311, The pastry tray in Tønsberg in Westfold. This is a road that has cooling problems during rush time, and there have also been some accidents on the route, fortunately only with minor personal injury. But here it is added to a traffic settlement with better accessibility, both for drivers and for bus and public transport, and there is also a walking and cycling route. There's no doubt that there's also going to be tolls here, but it's a local initiative, costing $226 million. EUR 2018 and with a amortisation period of four years. Here the Committee has suggested that, if you want to do so locally, you can use market interest to bring down the bomb tariffs. It recommends the Committee and, as I said, it is an overall committee that is behind it. Then I say good luck with the project from here.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1362	We'll see if this case takes a little less time than the previous one. This is a project taken out of a work with the Citypakket Tønsberg region. It is, as the rapporteur says, queue problems in the rush hour, and there is a cooperation between the municipality and the county council that makes this on the table with us. The case has been dealt with in both the county and municipality, and in this case the municipality has to provide a guarantee for a loan of 200 million. kr. The county's share is 34 million. kr. As the project has been taken out of the Bypakket Tønsberg region, it is likely that this is a toll station which, after the four years of financing of this construction project, will be continued in the urban package project. We are in favour of a proposal from a unanimous committee that the tolls can be lowered, based on market interest rates or the fixing of interest rates, in order to benefit the drivers. We see that more and more county road projects are being presented to the Stortinget in toll proposals. We're going to have a three-billion-dollar increase in the estate. kr per year and now between 70 billion. DKK and 90 billion kr. This is a challenge that the Storting must address. In our Central Party, we promoted a proposal for a national programme for our county roads. Unfortunately, government parties voted in favour of it, but a unanimous increase decided to ask the government to ‘outsource a cut-off mechanism in connection with the roll-out of the national transport plan, where, according to a mandatory plan, the county may seek co-financing from the state according to the given criterion’. It's a good decision, but it's long until 2021, so this challenge is coming back to us in the context of the state budget as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1373	This proposal on the financing of the project, e.g. 311 The Presterødbåkken in the municipality of Tønsberg in Westfold shows that local priorities contribute to the project being completed faster than initially anticipated. The extension was originally part of the Bypakket Tønsberg region. There has been a local desire to separate this from an own toll project, so that the Presterød tray can be completed several years before the original plan. Funding is based on county funds and tolls. It will be added to plant start-up during 2018, with completion in 2020. As the case spokesperson, Stordalen, was inside, there is today a queue problem on the e.g. 311 at the Presterødbakken in the Rushperiods. This leads to delays for both passenger car, business and public transport in the area. It has also been a time of easier personal injury on the route for the last ten years. The development planned in the works includes a number of measures designed to facilitate increased capacity and improve safety for all groups of road users. Today there is a missing footpath or cycle path between the Prestred Cross and the Olsred Cross. This project builds up less than 1 km of walking and cycling roads. There has been a lot of attention about tolls in recent times – we heard the same thing in the previous case – both in national, regional and local media, but also in social media. I would therefore like to stress that there are always local decisions at the bottom when tolls are introduced, as it does in this project in fv. 311 pastry tray.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1384	This is a county road project. Here too, tolls have to be put on the table, and here too, the table is catching. I just thought initially that the action programme proposed by the Center Party, which the Stortinget decided, might have been with and given a more reasonable funding to the drivers in such a type of project. The centre party is engaged in the expansion of the county road network. We have noticed here that local authorities want to support the project fv. 311 The Presterød area through partial bomb financing, and both the municipality of Tønsberg and the municipality of Vestfold have joined the plans. The district regulation for Kile was adopted by the municipality of Tønsberg as early as June 2013, so it is time to realize these plans. The measures proposed will provide improvements for all groups of road users, with greater predictability during the journey time for public transport and increased road safety for vulnerable road users through the establishment of a route and bicycle. This is a project that sees the whole, which we also discussed in the previous case. There are queue problems on the e.g. 311 at the Presterødbakken during the rush periods, leading to delays for both passenger car, business and public transport in the area. The development includes several measures designed to facilitate increased capacity and improve safety for all groups of road users. Furthermore, the extension shall lead to fewer accidents on the route. Today’s cross-resolution at the Prester Red Hill reduces capacity, and public transport has access problems on this part of Fv. 311. In addition, there is a missing pedestrian/bicycle route. The Prestress Cross is converted from intersections to roundabouts. In addition, a total of 930 metres of foot-and-mouth are built in connection with the new Prestred Cross, between the Prestred Cross and the Olstred Cross. This is a good and forward-looking project, with good solutions. It is also important to note that if there is an undesirable high traffic growth on fv. 460 through the Slaughter Valley, measures will be considered to reduce this growth. There may be traffic control measures, the establishment of a new toll station or other measures. As far as funding is concerned, the county funds and tolls are, and, as the rapporteur said, this is estimated at 226 million. 2018-kroner. It has also been said that the municipality of Tønsberg confirms that they provide a guarantee, cf. some of the problems we've been through before. Furthermore, the proposition states that the municipality of Tønsberg covers any increase in costs in excess of 10 pst. So here it's a significant contribution from the locals, and it's a strong desire to get this project into port. A collection period of four years has been calculated. It is then important that this project has been withdrawn from the urban package solution, so that there is a context when it may be put in place in four years' time. In this context, we would like to highlight that toll tariffs can be lower, based on market interest rates or the fixing of interest rates, in order to benefit the drivers. The Committee considers that there is an opportunity for the county councils and municipalities to benefit from it if there is a local desire to do so. The centre party is behind an overall committee, which refers to Prop. 103 S, on financing of 311 Prestread tray in Westfold. The Committee would stress that the background to the project is the problem of queues during the rush period, and that the improvements to be made will provide better traffic management and safety for all road users groups. The central part of the project is the extension of fv. 311 to the four-field road and the construction of a pedestrian and cyclist road.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1401	I shall not prolong this debate any longer than necessary. There is broad support for this proposition, which, in some cases, makes for better performance for road users, for driving and healthier countries and, in particular, for new opportunities for better development of the Kilen business area. That's why we're making this proposition, which I'm happy that the Storing joins.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1406	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1411	Let me first of all thank you for a short and polite debate. I just owe it to make the Workers' Party's clay trough aware that, as far as county roads are concerned, fortunately the county council is governed in the Westfold by the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party, and Tønsberg the same. It's a good road maintenance in Westfold, fortunately, because they spend the money for what they're going to do. Then we can probably agree that ideally you shouldn't have tolls, but that's what we've been talking about earlier today. But road maintenance is good and the condition is good on the roads in Westfold.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1416	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1432	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to six replies from members of the Government. In addition, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1443	As rapporteur, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation on Prop. 113 S for 2017-2018, extension and financing of Rv. 36 on the route Bø–Seljord in Telemark. There is a single committee that supports this setting. Rv. 36 is an important trajectory for local and regional traffic between the Grenlands area and Mid-Telemark and connects the main E18 and E134 trajectories. The road standard for the section Bø–Seljord is low with narrow turns and a partial rise. The road width varies between 7.0 and 7.5 metres, and there is a gradual lack of yellow middle stripe. On parts of the line, there is a bad horizontal and vertical curve. Today, annual traffic is about 2,500 vehicles, and the speed limit is 80 km/h. The two sections of Stodi and Bukti, which this project covers, are also accidents. In the period 2007–2017, there were nine accidents involving damage to persons on the routes, one person was killed, and eight persons were more likely to be injured. Local policy is the expression that a person primarily wants to use rv. 36 Bø–Seljord is built with 100 pst. State funding, but the municipalities of Seljord, Bø, Sauherad and Nome and Telemark County have all similar decisions that, if this is not possible, one goes in order for the sections to be built with toll financing, where the municipality of Telemark guarantees a loan absorption limit of 400 million. kr. The project is funded by arrears and tolls shall be collected in both directions. A base of 15 years has been added to an automatic toll station on the Stodi Parselle, with the possibility of 12 years of collection in case of higher annual traffic and lower borrowing rates, or 17 years of collection with a more pessimistic alternative with lower annual traffic and higher interest rates. It has been assumed that the collection will start in 2022, after both sections have been completed. Average toll tariffs will be set at up to 29.92 in 2017 kroner. With the provisions otherwise laid down, and triple fare for tariff group 2, this corresponds to tariffs of 31 for tariff group 1 and 93 for tariff group 2. The financing facility has provided a basis for exemption from zero-emission running gear, in line with current tariff guidelines. Toll ceilings are to be regulated as price rises occur. The toll system is based on a discount system whereby all road users in tariff group 1 with a valid electronic chip receive 20 pst. Discount. Driving gear in tariff group 1 pays for a maximum of 40 passages per calendar month using a piece. After the toll collection has started, the State Road Service shall, in consultation with the local image, make an assessment of the traffic situation on the unladen network, fv. 156, for the protection of both the environment and road safety. In the event of an unwanted increase in traffic, measures such as speed delay must be considered in the first instance. signs and speed dumps. Where necessary, the collection of tolls shall also be assessed on the decommissioned behalf. The project, etc. 36 Bø–Seljord should be placed under Vegfinans Rv36 Telemark AS. It is a subsidiary of Vegfinans AS, which is a regional toll company. On behalf of the Committee, we would like to congratulate the project, which will give users of this important section a safer and safer road standard.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1462	Rv. 36 is an important transport year for both local and regional traffic between the border region and Mid-Telemark. It also connects the main year of travel E18 and E134. The total cost of the project is 291 million. kr and shall be fully covered by tolls. Here the Council of State writes that there is local political will to finance highway construction with tolls. We don't think that's going to be entirely correct. When Seljord’s municipality dealt with the matter in November 2017, they decided that they wanted to deal primarily with the case. 36 was to be built with 100 pst. State funding, without tolls, or with the lowest toll ratio possible. This is quite natural and should be part of the debate. It is only when it is not possible that the municipality supports the points of financing with tolls. The reluctance is great out there, and we are debating this increasingly with an increasing level of conflict and with increasing resistance. It feels unfair. The Progress Party contributes to the debate by pretending not to govern the toll policy. One would think that with the rhetoric they carry out, today would have promoted a proposal for a different funding than tolls, or at least problematically the challenges Seljord municipality points out. Locally and regionally, they find it particularly difficult to choose between better accessibility funded by citizens and poor food routes. I call this an irreproachable rhetoric on the part of the Progress Party. We in the Workers' Party have at least said that we understand that roads must be financed by tolls. The irony is that when the Workers' Party makes proposals to investigate road pricing, we hear that the Progress Party is opposed to removing the bombs that the Progress Party says they are against, while the percentage of toll proposals is increasing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1473	Rv. 36 is an important local and regional road that is clearly too low a standard, with many sharp turns and steep hills, so it is an important joy that this road between Bø and Seljord now needs to be repaired. It is important for accessibility, but also for road safety. But it's a joyous thing with bismach, namely that the road is to be expanded funded with tolls. I note that local policy is primarily a desire for the state to take responsibility for the road and finance it and to cover the costs of the repair. But then I also record that it is subsidiaryly an alternative to state funding, namely tolls. Then it is a little too bad that there are no more parties and more local politicians than those from the Progress Party who are more aware that it is the responsibility of the state to take care of, build and finance the national and European road network in Norway, and not the drivers or others. Then it is a bit interesting to hear the representative Leirtrø from the Workers' Party criticise the Progress Party, when the Workers' Party representative knows very well that we do not have a majority to change the regime that the Workers' Party has introduced. If the Workers' Party wanted to join and remove tolls, it would have been nice – maybe we could have had a majority for that. As I also pointed out briefly, I do not see road pricing as a good alternative to tolls. I think of it as an alternative that would actually be even worse for the drivers, because then suddenly you can start to pay wherever you drive, regardless of traffic, regardless of the road standard, regardless of where you are in the country, even in the countryside, and in addition you have a moment of monitoring and control – that you may need to have a GPS in the car that follows anywhere. If that were to be the result, it would be a worse solution than tolls. Of course, the best thing is to get the state to take more of its responsibility and use more of its oil resources to invest in the future. Unfortunately, however, the Progress Party – at least for the time being – has lost the fight to remove all the toll stations. As long as there is a large majority of tolls, the toll stations remain standing. But within the limits we have to deal with, the Progress Party has actually managed to reduce the bombing burden for most people. The toll reform we carried out has led to almost 30 pst. lower bombing costs. Among other things, we have introduced 20 pst. a discount on the bomb bar – which is also pointed out in this case – which all drivers enjoy. We have removed almost 55 bomb companies, so the money that used to go to the administration and operation of a large number of bomb companies is now going to pay the road faster, so that the drivers can get a lower bomb load. There is also a compensation scheme in the NTP for a total of 6 billion. kr, which is used to help cover the debts of the toll companies. It would have been nice if more parties could join in and support that compensation scheme – so far we are in the government, with the Left, Right and Advance Party, and also the Christian People's Party. If we'd gotten more people to be on it and maybe increased that compensation scheme over 6 billion. kr, the cost of bombing the drivers would have decreased further. Unfortunately, although there is not a majority to remove all toll stations, it is still possible to take further action to reduce the cost of bombing. One measure, which fortunately is used in this case, is to put the bombing so low that those who commute every day and in addition need private driving during the evening or during the weekends to drive children in sports activities or visit the family, do not pay for leisure. It is positive that the ceiling here is set lower than in at least many other cases the Storting has dealt with. It is also possible to increase the amortisation time from 15 to 20 years. I'm going to think that most people don't have mortgages of 15 years. Here we're talking about significantly larger investments than buying a house, it could be about large billions of investments. Now this project is not so big, but in principle it should be possible to have increased amortisation time, and it should be possible to use market interest rates, as we also pointed out in the previous case, which would also have led to a lower toll rate. So it's still possible to take action to reduce the toll burden for most people, and I hope that we can manage to get better in the future on other toll issues that we're going to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1492	That today we decide to repair three kilometres of the Bø–Seljord section on Rv. 36, is positive. This winding road is an important trajectory in Telemark, and nationally it is important. It links industry, other business and ports along the coast of Telemark and Vestfold with the West via Haukeli and the connection to E134 in Seljord. The centre party cannot often express enough how important it is in the future to provide infrastructure that connects the parts of the country better and better, both because the population-density areas of the country and business need it, and because the districts and businesses there need it. The faster and more efficient you can commute to work elsewhere, or get cargo transported, the easier it will still be to live around our country, not least where our natural resources are located. There is a lot of a wagon train loaded with fish or equipment that is now snorting along the Seljord water on its way to the ports of Grenland and Westfold, and there are many commuters along the same parts of the river. Thirty-six. The improvement we are adopting today will therefore be very dear to both groups, in addition to the fact that the local population is of course very happy with it. But the local people could be even happier. The government slowed down a little in the interview when the proposal was presented, so today we do not agree to rectify all the sections that need it – the closest Seljord is not included, unfortunately. The same thing happened with a different route in the area, on E134 Seljord-Vott. Here the government also took out sections. The result is that Telemark is being built piece by piece and divided, and as the representative Sundbø Abrahamsen knows, there is great impatience in Telemark in getting all this realized. Finally, I would like to say that it is a pleasure to hear how the representative Johnsen asks others to take action to reduce the toll. The Progress Party representative Johnsen has almost evolved it into an art to tell why they're implementing what they're actually against. But my point is that the Progress Party really needs only the government parties and a supporting party to grab hold of and reduce the toll rates. They don't have to bring everyone, they don't have to bring the Workers' Party, so it can be easier than the representative Johnsen thinks. You don't have to bring everyone, you just need the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1503	The road project we are discussing now, where terms are used to repair the existing road, is quite good music in S.V. ears, and we should have seen a lot more of it in my opinion – repairing existing roads with middle parts, with race protection, etc. That's why we've spent considerable money on it in our alternative budget, much larger sums than the government has provided. And then we've been able to figure out how the Progress Party is going to finance road construction – it's nice to have it repeated. They're going to take it from the oil money, and of course asphalt is made of oil, we know that too. The strange thing here is that when it comes to cheating on this rule of action, I'm usually familiar with something a finance minister does. I certainly believe that it is the Progress Party that also has the Minister of Finance, who is very central to this government. We have also been told that the Progress Party is now definitely opposed to road pricing, as I interpret the representative Johnsen at least. I think it is very strange that no more fair system should sound good in the ears of the Progress Party. It is quite clear that a road pricing system will be able to make it fairer in the sense that it can be arranged in such a way that it goes on the length of road use, it can be arranged by car type and by pollution level. So it would probably be a lot easier to accept, because very often it is that there is an unfair perspective that makes it a very large popular uprising. It's easy to understand -- I've seen it on a lot of urban growth agreements. There are a good deal of unfair elements in the tolling systems. It costs a lot – it costs a lot more – to make it very fine masked with lots of bogs, it costs a lot more to collect. I think that a road pricing system should definitely also be assessed by the Progress Party and the Council of State at least in some form.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1512	In this case, the municipalities and county councils have taken the initiative to repair this road section. It sounds to some speakers not as if an initiative has been taken locally, but both Seljord, Bø, Sauherad, Nome municipalities and Telemark County Municipality have decided to be part of this project. It's added up to 100 pst. user payment, not least for the standard adopted. This is an important road map for business – I would say – clearly one of the most important factors for taking the initiative and for taking part in supporting this path. It is a very dangerous road calculation for the heavy-duty vehicles. They are to a large extent to be involved in financing this way. If I know the industry right, they don't think it's good, but they accept it because they get a completely different way. But they're going to have triple toll rates in relation to the cars. It suggests that there is a strong desire for them to get a safer and more comfortable way to drive. So little to the moments that have been brought into the debate so far – this by possibly expanding the number of years of collection. Yeah, but that's an amount that has to be reclaimed for the cost of the road. If you increase the number of years, it'll mean that the drivers pay even more, because of course it'll cost you to borrow this money. That's why I think we should be very careful to say that there should be a much longer collection time than 15 years, because then it can eventually be very high costs for the drivers. And it's certainly not until the banks drivers want to pay their money – it's too bad. The left, in fact, refers to the local initiatives that come, even though, for this project, poor socio-economic estimates are – to put it mildly – poor. But when there is such a special situation and it has been arranged – by local initiative – for users, with a slightly lower number of passages before you get it for free, and when you have such a high toll on business traffic, we welcome this project.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1523	The scope and size of the project have several speakers before I went into it, so I won't go through it in detail. This is an important project to improve both road safety and the emergence of commercial transport in particular. However, when the representative of the Central Party chooses to use a little of his post to criticise today's government to build up pieces and divides, there is reason to right after, because it has a long experience with the Center Party. On the contrary, during the period of government we now have behind us, we have shown that, under changing governments before us, our increasing maintenance run on our roads every year, now the maintenance run goes down – because we actually prioritize it more. By redefining planning processes, we plan more and more, but there is still room for local initiatives for less remedial projects when you want to take them. We are honest about this – there is still room for local initiatives for refurbishment projects – but when we go through the national transport plan to a great extent, we think in a completely different way from the government before us, and quite different from the Centre Party has traditionally done so. I understand that when local politicians primarily want state full funding, they can probably experience the demand for tolls. However, I note that the parties that criticise the proposal for it today do not have an alternative proposal in this matter either. Then it's important to remember that if we look at what we've done for tolls, for example. in Telemark, there is an absolute driver in this area. We decided to change the project funding and increase the state share of E134 Seljord-Åmot. We did it – we increased the state part and reduced the load on the car list. We contributed 310 million. kr to a project on rv. 36, the same national road project, on Shadowstein–Skelbretstrand in the Urban Package Grenland, and fully financed it. So this government has delivered – more government funds, less tolls than it had previously been set up, just to the same car list, on Rv. 36, on E134. I acknowledge and take responsibility for the fact that the Progress Party has not had a greater impact on the toll question, but I do not accept that a person is trying to make it like that a toll cut off himself, because what we have experienced every time we bring these projects, is a big political discussion that the money should have been used for other projects. We take responsibility that there will be tolls also when the Progress Party is in government, because that was the impact we got. One isn't going to right that I'm trying to write it off, but it would be nice if the same representatives who are going to measure the government on it had measured their own efforts. In post-posts from this pulpit, they say that they understand that it is frustrating for the carist, but they do nothing about it. I didn't think it was very credible.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1534	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1539	If the State Council had read the Workers' Party's alternative government budget for the last five years, he would have seen that the toll ratio would be reduced with the Workers' Party's proposals. We have three things that we have dealt with here today, and these toll propositions are probably one last greeting from Solvik-Olsen. In one of the cases, it says that a bomb costs $2 million. kr annually to operate, and we have today discussed road pricing. Now we could read that Solvik-Olsen investigated road pricing for heavy transport as part of the budget agreement last year. What is the reason why the Progress Party is so opposed to clearing the road pricing if it makes us get more money?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1547	We do this and we will come back to the Storing when it's ahead of us. We're going to do that job, and I'm not going to conclude on that question until I get to the Stortinget based on what we're doing now. But I understand those who are skeptical that instead of using tolls, one actually starts moving the load over on roads that are not close to being improved for a long time. I think it might weaken the legitimacy of local funding, and what I think is a useful discussion. We're not going to take it here, but we're going to take it at a later date. I'm busy making the cost of charging tolls go down. That's why we're implementing a toll reform – it was almost 60 toll companies, and now it's 5. It contributes to lower collection costs and better financing solutions. And the Labour Party is voting for the toll project we're dealing with right now. They'll be measured.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1558	Can I then understand the Council of State that the Progress Party is actually in order to determine road pricing as an alternative to tolls?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1563	One can understand how a government council in a minority government takes Storting's decision seriously, as well as in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1568	The councils are taking the distance from building piece by piece and divided, I heard. After all, we're a lot of people who're fighting to get the Mountain Tunnel on Rv. 77 into the previous NTP, and to realize it at the same time as the E6-bit Sorelva–Borakamo – it has been a bottleneck. When the government proposed a new NTP, they actually took out that piece, that bottleneck. It was fought in again, and now the Mountain Tunnel is over. I wonder what the Council of State will do now to get a complete expansion in this area – where the machines are standing, and how much of the mass has already been prepared – not to get it piece by piece and split again.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1573	I believe that we are debating rv. 36 Bø–Seljord. About rv. 36 is a large and important road project, has not yet come to Northern Ireland. This means that I intend to answer questions about the Mountain Tunnel and other road projects in Northern Ireland when we deal with matters about it, or when the Stortinget asks me through the formal forums, and not in response to Rv. 36 in Telemark.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1578	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1585	I also want to start by thanking the Center Party. I feel a little honored over almost being titulated as an artist. It was great and nice. It is also nice to see that the centre party is now in opposition at least a little more clearly at a resistance to tolls than the centre party was in position. It's also joyous. Then we're drifting, and if we get a few more games, then all of a sudden there might be a majority against tolls, and that would of course delight all of the drivers in the country. To SV's comment on how the Progress Party wants to finance the way: I do experience several times that the government and the Advance Party are mixed up a bit. Of course, in government, our government councils are responsible for running government policies. But I got a challenge from SV about how the Progress Party wants to finance road construction, and it's clear, regardless of whether the Progress Party has the Finance Minister or not, that the Progress Party's policy there is to spend more oil money. There is actually a room for action within today's rule of action, which has been reduced compared to the past. But then there is also a compromise in government – where the Progress Party does not have a majority, of course – that we ended up using 2.7 pst. in 2019. It's possible to use more; that's what's the point and the message. With regard to SV’s comments on road pricing and tolls, it is gratifying to note that SV – almost verbally quoted – feels that there may be unfair elements in the tolling systems of urban environmental packages. It was a happy comment for me as Frp-er to hear. Absolute – there are great injustices in the financing of urban environment packages for the drivers, because the drivers pay almost everything. In Oslopackakt 3, the drivers pay almost absolutely all the costs without getting anything back. So the drivers finance actions and investments they don't want and don't need, and maybe they're never going to make use of. The very least inconsistency in such urban environment packages is that the aim is to prevent driving, but then the drivers will finance the packages. It's a little bit special. But I still don't think changing terminology or changing tolls to road pricing will be a better thing for the drivers, because at least most of the toll projects that we decide – as we have adopted today – are to finance a road temporarily, and not an eternal new way of milking the drivers, so we fear that road pricing will be.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1594	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox The President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 7-10 is processed as a whole. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1645	No one has asked to speak on the matter. 7-10.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1653	After it had been called to vote, said Then the Storting is ready to vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1664	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1 and 2, by Tuva Moflag, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party; proposal No 3, from Kjersti Top on behalf of the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No 4, from Kjersti Top on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 5, from Sheida Sangtarash on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 3, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests regulatory requirements for ergotherapy and physiotherapy competence in nursing homes.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1696	Proposal No. 4, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to launch as soon as possible a survey of the human rights situation in Norwegian hospitals and in the home services, where residents and users themselves, and their relatives, are sources. The Government is requested to report appropriately to the Storing.’» The Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1713	Proposal No. 1 and 2, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make a change to the House Bank grant scheme for day care facilities in nursing homes and nursing homes, so that the grant schemes can also include housing without success.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the social partners to take the initiative in order to establish cooperation for the establishment of a temporary work pool with permanent employees in the municipalities, possibly as a cooperation between neighbouring municipalities.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1736	I think someone may have voted incorrectly. Can we take the vote again?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1741	There seem to be several problems with the correct answer. Then we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1753	Proposal No. 5, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the planned grant scheme for the renovation, establishment or re-establishment of the hospital kitchen is examined and presented during the first half of 2019 and that the scheme is funded by proposals for a revised national budget.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1816	It's going to be a little bit more than a little bit more than a little bit more than a Right, the Progress Party and the Left have notified that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1830	I, II, III, IV, V and VII are then weighed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1840	It's going to be so daunting over VIII.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1854	A total of 15 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1-9, by Elise Björnebeck-Waagen on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Christian People's Party proposed no. 10 and 11, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Center Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No 12, from Sheida Sangtarash on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 13 and 14, by Olaug V. Bollestad on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposal No 15, by Elise Björnebeck-Waagen on behalf of the Workers' Party Proposal No. 13 and 14, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to make proposals to amend the alcohol law in order to reduce the maximum turnout time from 1 p.m. 3:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. 02.00.’» Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose amendments to the law to ensure that municipal sales and gift fees are set at a minimum of one per cent of the alcohol turnover.’ Red has already given its support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1894	Proposal No. 12, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking whether there are groups in need of an extended information package related to the adverse effects of alcohol and other drugs on pregnancy, and whether the national professional guidelines for maternity care are well followed up or need to be reinforced.’ The centre party, the environmental party Dei Green and Red have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1911	Proposal No. 10, from the Center Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to the Storting with proposals for measures limiting consumer product information on alcohol.’ The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1928	Proposal No. 7, from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that all pregnant women are well informed about the harm alcohol consumption can cause during pregnancy, including ensuring that all pregnant women are fully informed of this during pregnancy control.’; The Socialist Left and the Greens have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1945	Proposal No. 1–6 and 8 and 9, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to set up a public body to assess the large social costs of alcohol for society, working life and individuals and their families.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to cooperate with sports organisations to strengthen their efforts to promote sport in an alcohol-free zone.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the social partners to cooperate more closely to raise awareness of attitudes towards alcohol in the labour market, to promote the value of non-alcoholic arenas and to underline the need for freedom of choice and reducing the pressure on alcohol in the workplace.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals to the Storting to introduce labelling requirements for alcoholic beverages.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for stronger action to be taken against alcohol smuggling to Norway through improved control mechanisms, such as, inter alia, adequate means of control.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The size of the population calls on the government to improve the organisation of treatment provision for whole families with alcohol problems.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that pregnant women with drug dependence are followed up more closely and to ensure that there is sufficient room to meet the need for treatment and follow-up of women and children.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government requests the introduction of a labelling scheme for alcoholic beverages with health warnings on the use of alcohol during pregnancy and during driving.’ The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have already supported the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e1999	Proposal No. 15, from the Workers' Party. The proposal was amended during the debate, with the following wording: ‘The Government requests the reversal of the extension made by the tax-free scheme in 2014 from 1/1/2020.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e2016	Proposal No. 11, from the Center Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to consider a reversal of the latest change in the tax-free quota based on an evaluation of the impact of the quota on the sales and position of the Vinmonopole as one of the main alcohol policy instruments.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have already given subsidiary support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e2040	Right, the Progress Party and the Left have notified that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e2056	During the debate Kjersti Toppe has presented one proposal on behalf of the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The subsidy asks the Government of the Alcohol Regulation to withdraw the authorisation in the event of an infringement of the rules of the Alcohol Code to assume that the maximum number of dots before withdrawal of the authorisation shall be eight, not twelve.’; Alternatively, this proposal and the recommendation of the Committee shall be rejected. Behind this is the Labour Party, Right, Advance and Left options. The Green Party has already given its support to the vote. Red supports the proposal of the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. The Committee had recommended that the Storting should do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e2103	Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e2131	Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e2162	Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e2174	Case No. 7–10 is the second time the law is dealt with and the law is applicable to decisions 5 to 8. There are no comments suggested. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been accepted for the second time and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-20.ana.ud577e2230	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
