ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-06.ana.ud441e45	Honourable co-representatives! Former Major Christopher Stensaker passed away on 31 July of this year, 73 years old. Stensaker was the biggest representative of the South Trondelag in the years 1997–2005 and represented the Progress Party. In his first period at Stortinget, Stensaker was a member of the Committee on Transport, and in the second he was a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. He was also a member of the British Parliament's delegations to the European Parliament and the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. After leaving the Stortinget, Stensaker was a member of the Norwegian Nobel Committee during the period 2006–2014. Christopher Stensaker was the son of city architect Christopher J.R. Stoneware and correspondent Astrid Wakefield and had a broad professional background. He had high school, military pre-school and several vocational schools and courses and worked as a civil servant, store manager, driver, engineer, building worker, refrigerator fitter, cook, auxiliary staff and fisherman – to mention something. Stensaker was a member of the South Trøndelag County from 1981 to 1997, from 1984 as a member of the County Committee, and a member of the Trondheim City Council from 1988 to 1991. He led Trondheim Progress Party and South-Trøndelag Progress Party in two rounds in the 1980s. He was also active in a number of teams and associations and put down a great effort that was appreciated by many. In many areas, Christopher Stensaker was an important co-worker for the Progress Party at both local, county and national level. We bring peace to Christopher Stensaker's memory.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-06.ana.ud441e72	The representatives of Torhild Bransdal, Sigbjørn Gülsvik, Arne Nävra, Ove Trellevik, Liv Signe Navarsette, Marit Arnstad, Elin Rodum Agdestein, Jon Gunnes and Stein Erik Lauvås, who has been licensed, have again taken the seat. The called alternate of the Nordland County, Kari Anne Bøkestad Andreassen, has taken the seat. From 6 November to 8 November to take part as an observer of the Security and Cooperation Organisation in Europe at the United States Congressional elections, an application has been submitted by the Workers' Party Group for a permit to represent Mr Åsmund Aukrust. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative of the goods, Mani Hussaini, is proposed to meet during the period of leave. – It is also considered to be adopted. Mani Hussaini is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-06.ana.ud441e134	The representative, Freddy André Øvstegård, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-06.ana.ud441e139	I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on behalf of the representatives Karin Andersen, Sheida Sangtarash and myself on the right to meaningful leisure for all young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-06.ana.ud441e144	The representative of the Bears Moxnes will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-06.ana.ud441e150	On behalf of Red, I come up with a proposal to prevent union breakup.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-06.ana.ud441e155	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will, for the sake of order, draw the representatives' attention to the fact that there will be voting on the minutes at the end of today's meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-06.ana.ud441e177	The freedom to express what one believes, without interference from the authorities, is a fundamental and fundamental right in a liberal democracy. Freedom of expression is one of the pillars that upholds the rule of law, so freedom of expression is also enshrined in Section 100. However, the freedom of expression is not just a right. A culture of transparency and freedom of expression must be created in all respects, and it is a responsibility that is incumbent upon us all. The freedom of expression may be particularly important in the public sector. A number of public sector conditions depend on popular and political governance, and the more important is the ongoing and open debate on developments in the various areas, so that policy makers have a good overview of what is happening and the consequences of the decisions taken. If teachers, like other professionals, have the freedom to express themselves on matters at school, questions need to be asked about whether this freedom is in practice being undermined. Without going into single cases — recent months’ revelations and extensive media coverage have shown that the freedom of expression of teachers and school leaders is under pressure. Through specific media issues, we are made aware that teachers experience being called on the carpet to receive a so-called guidance, a warning or a reprimand from their superiors. This is not a phenomenon just in one municipality; similar things exist in many places in the country. And behind each case there are even more people who dare not stand up with their experiences, or who refuse to express themselves in fear that it will lead to consequences for employment and for further careers and careers. Several studies are available to confirm this. But not only that – the studies also show that administrative management loyalty requirements are perceived to have become more stringent in recent years. We have surveys every year from 2014 until today that show such a picture. The studies have been carried out by the Oslo Editorial Association, by Fafo and by the Education Association. Many people believe that the duty of loyalty in a job is important, and it is true that it provides an important basis for any employment relationship. But it seems in many ways to rule a misunderstood loyalty upwards in the system and a fear of pointing out relationships that you disagree with, both outwardly and inwardly. The duty of loyalty cannot overestimate the freedom of expression, perhaps especially in the public sector – I will come back to that. But let me also stress: no one here contests the right of management of the employer. No one contests the right of the employer to take decisions and to require employees to perform tasks, whether the employees in the previous proceedings have objected and counter-arguments. Such a discussion is a derailment. This is the employee’s right to express opinions, disagreements and system criticism verbally or in writing, if it affects his own workplace. As I said, it may be particularly important in my opinion that one in the public sector does not extend the loyalty obligation too far. In the public sector, an administration would like to create a buffer between professionals and the elected people, and in such a situation, it is vital for a broad political debate that opinions can freely be expressed at all stages. It is developing for the public sector and for Norwegian school that there is an open dissent. It is necessary for good political decisions to come up with views from all sides of the public sector. If you don't dare to break your mind, it'll be a bit of innovation. In recent years, we have also seen that the management of public administration operates with extensive reputation. In many ways — and in some sectors in particular, perhaps — government has adopted private sector strategies to build culture and branding, so to speak. Having a good reputation is a good thing, but in this case, often the reputation of the school, the consideration of the business cannot shut down the breakup of opinions and critical voices either. I think there's good reason to reflect on how we've come to where we're now, where many don't dare to express themselves, and where opinions are seen as a problem for the reputation of public administration. When overall activity plans are overrun with adjectives and ambitious objectives, critical voices can easily be perceived as disturbing. In many ways, the school has become a sector in which target management has been given a comprehensive foothold. The reporting and publication of school results is given weight far beyond what national tests and primary school credits can – or rather cannot – say something about quality. Such a system puts teachers, principals and school authorities in a vulnerable position where the fear of criticism may weaken the school’s reputation is like a blanket. But the Norwegian school is no business. It is not comparable to a private enterprise. School is a community institution. The school is a community institution to manage both a broad societal mandate and provide students with knowledge of how democracy works. Then, too, the school must set a good example in terms of the possibility of disagreement and opinion. The sum of individual cases and studies over the last three to four years shows considerable uncertainty about the open debate at school. In addition to the burden on individuals who experience correction, there is also a general concern: what are the social consequences of a development in which freedom of expression is restricted and the critical voices are muted? I think Anine Kierulf expressed this very strikingly and precisely at a conference recently: ‘Freedom of expression is important to be able to form and act as a citizen of society. For the sake of the collective good, it is important that all ideas are broken in transparency. The idea is that the good ideas will stand still. We are all responsible for the emergence of ideas." In many ways it is that public servants should speak out more, not less. At the same time, we see that in Denmark there is now a legal case in which a teacher is accused of unfair statements. Then I must be allowed to say that it is not at all a goal to legalise the kind of conflicts that may arise in the wake of the discussion of openness and disunity. On the contrary, when management in parts of the school administration seems to restrict the right of employees to express themselves directly or indirectly, there is a need for a cultural change and a change of attitude. There's no need to let that kind of case go to court. To the extent that the law is clear, it is the understanding and enforcement of the employer’s role that appears not to extend in some cases. Therefore, I would like to ask the Council of State, as the leading representative of Education Norway, how he reflects on this issue, and what initiatives he thinks it is important to take to strengthen the culture of speech and openness in Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-06.ana.ud441e203	I would like to thank the interpellant, who addresses an important topic. Freedom of expression is essential for an informed societal debate and a fundamental prerequisite for a well-functioning democracy. First, on a general basis, I would like to say something about the right to freedom of expression for school employees. Freedom of expression is a fundamental right protected both by the Constitution and by international human rights. It is based on the fundamental principles of democracy, the quest for truth and the free formation of the individual. The employee of the school has, in line with other employees, the same basic freedom of expression as any other resident. This also applies to opinions directly related to the activity in which the employee works. However, the employee’s right to speak is not without limits. Restrictions imposed by general legislation, e.g.: of course, the prohibition of disclosure of identifiable personal data must be complied with. Neither can school staff express themselves in a way that offends students and therefore violates their right under the training law to a safe and good school environment. In addition, the loyalty obligation in the employment relationship could justify certain limitations. But let me stress: it's just opinions that can damage the business's factual and legitimate interests, that will break the loyalty obligation. This means that according to their expectations of the loyalty of employees, the employer does not have free access to regulate or sanction opinions made by the employee on his own behalf. The fact that an opinion may be unlucky or unpleasant is not sufficient to break the obligation of loyalty. Employees at school have a wide scope for public expression of their opinions about their own work and work. An overall assessment must be made here in the individual case, where the reason for intervention in the freedom of the employee is balanced against the need for democracy, the search for truth and the free formation of the individual. This balance must take into account the fact that freedom of expression is a right protected by the Constitution and international human rights, and the obligation of loyalty, which is an illegal principle. This implies that the limitation of freedom of expression must be justified and the restriction must be proportionate. In general, there must be a great deal to be done before loyalty restricts freedom of expression. However, since a specific assessment is not excluded, it is in the nature of the case that the assessment can give different results depending on the situation in the individual case. In any case, there is nothing wrong with a teacher being able to give a critical opinion on the school policy of the municipality and, of course, not on national school policy. In addition to freedom of expression, I also refer, for the sake of the whole, to the rules of the Environmental Protection Act on the right of employees to inform about critical aspects of the activities of the employer. In addition to the right of alert itself, the procedure for alerting regulated. It is not right for me, as the Council of State, to take a concrete position on individual matters relating to freedom of expression for school employees, who have been up for debate in the media. Employers' responsibility for school employees has been added to municipalities and counties. As a Minister of Knowledge, I cannot instruct how employer responsibility should be taken into account in specific matters either. Under the general rules of the Municipal Law on Legal Affairs, County Council has the power to review the legality of decisions taken in municipalities, which will also include rules on the freedom of expression of employees. Such testing may also be carried out on the State's own initiative if there are indications that the limits of freedom of expression are too narrow. However, this arrangement does not confer on employees the right to have such a test carried out by the State. However, public servants have the right to take matters up with the Civil Service Ombudsman if they consider that the employer has restricted their freedom of expression in an unjustified manner. In addition, the County is responsible for intervening if there is an infringement of the Training Act by students. When I was Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, in 2016 I wrote a letter to all the country's rapporteurs and county rapporteurs who took up the importance of the efforts of the municipalities and county councils to strengthen the freedom of expression of employees. The letter concluded with an appeal calling on rapporteurs and county rapporteurs to take the letter into the local government and county council and to start the discussion on how to contribute to strengthening the freedom of expression of employees. A debate on freedom of expression and expression is in itself valuable. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that in 2017 the KS issued a revised and expanded version of its guidance for municipalities and county councils on freedom of expression and warning. In addition to the guidance itself, a foreword to that effect has also been included. it reads as follows: ‘Communities and county councils manage Community resources and perform important social tasks. Openness helps to ensure that they solve the mission for the benefit of the citizens. It is also a prerequisite for detecting and correcting errors. A well-functioning democracy depends on open and enlightened debate. Employees with knowledge and understanding of disciplines and services are important actors in public vocabulary. It is therefore important that municipalities make it safe to express themselves critically about matters in their own activities. Warning is a special form of opinion that deals with critical conditions at the workplace. Municipalities shall have procedures for notification. The procedures shall include a call for employees to express their views on critical matters and to facilitate safe alerting. This will enable any critical conditions to be quickly identified and stopped. Leaders at all levels have a great responsibility to facilitate an opinion climate. A good voice culture and good warning procedures are important for local democracy. It also helps to ensure good services, a good working environment and good interaction between managers and employees.» I give my full support to this. Of course, what has been said here in general also applies to the school. I think it is very important that school staff use their freedom of expression to participate in the public debate on school conditions, which they have good conditions for thinking about, but also that it is a good culture to express themselves internally in their own activities. This is important for the basic legitimacy of the public population and for the optimum development of school policy at both local and national level. Creating a basis for a good culture of expression is a special leadership responsibility. The supervisor of the KS also highlighted the potential to inhibit and promote such a culture and referred to relevant research. It is also natural to recall that the best way to respond to any unsubstantial comments is to counter-measures. I think one of the most important things that can be done to get good progress in this area is to have a lively debate on freedom of expression and its conditions. The debate we have here can also make us conscious. I believe that attention in this area could affect managers, among others. because their legitimacy as leaders will depend on their taking the freedom of expression seriously. As for the concrete question in the interpellation, what can I do to strengthen the culture of expression in school, my answer is this: In September, I sent an invitation to a meeting with the Education Association, Norsk Lektorlag, the Student Organisation, the School Leaders' Association, the National Association of Schools and the KS on the theme of the climate of opinion and the culture of expression in the school. The purpose of the meeting was to get a common understanding of what is the real situation in the sector, what challenges we are facing, and how we can meet them. This meeting was held on 26 October. There was broad agreement in the meeting that we are facing a challenge in this area that needs to be taken seriously, and that there are many employees in School-Norway who are afraid to take advantage of the freedom of expression of fear of negative sanctions in some form, which is totally unacceptable. It was also agreed that we are facing a continuing challenge, and that it is important to have ongoing attention and debate on this. In contexts where it's natural, I still want to do my part to contribute to a lively and continuous discussion of the important themes that the interpellant travels. In this context, I hope that the interpellation and my response here today can contribute to reflection and debate among all concerned, school owners, at different levels of school and organisations. I want to make sure that this is properly communicated.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-06.ana.ud441e273	I thank the Council of State for his articles relating to the interpellation, and I think he draws up a number of interesting things. I am glad that he also stresses that in relation to the relationship between freedom of expression and the duty of loyalty, which I believe is really quite central here, it is the limitations of freedom of expression that must be justified, not the opposite. That's pretty important. I do not expect the Council of State to take over the role of neither the County Council nor the Civil Ombudsman, but I think it is important that he, as the leading person in Education Norway, facilitates a culture of free speech and exchange of views. It is serious when the studies in the last four years show that, for example: more than four out of ten choose not to say from because they are afraid of negative reactions from their own school management, that 30 pst. states fairly in agreement with claims that ‘the top management limits my ability to express myself publicly for the sake of the reputation of the business’, and also that very many of the principals and principals believe that it is not acceptable for them to go out publicly and critically to school owners’ education policies and priorities. But it is true that if people in the school community express themselves critically to politicians, we, as politicians, must take part in the exchange of views and respond to the criticism that is coming. That's why it's almost more serious that so many people say that they don't dare to express themselves because they're afraid of negative reactions from their own administration, their own school management, their own top management, because it's going to be largely an administration that won't feel the same responsibility publicly to defend why they're restricting freedom of expression for their employees, while we politicians often have to do it, and I think that's also necessary that we do in those circumstances. So there's a difference there that I think is crucial, and that I also think we've seen in the last year. So I want to say that I agree that the best answer to many of these issues is a still open breach of opinion. The dialogue that the Council of State says he has initiated with the federations is important. There is a dialogue that should continue. Taking the issues seriously on a case-by-case basis and also having an ongoing debate about it is all very important. I would warn against mixing the warning institute into the discussion of a free exchange of views in Norwegian school. The warning institution is a special institution which is also regulated in particular by law. Here it is simply about the great balance between the freedom of expression and the limitation that the duty of loyalty in working life may impose, and that is the restriction that I think makes many people today feel a fear of facing management and administration in Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-06.ana.ud441e286	Once again, I would like to thank the representative Marit Arnstad for both good and important interpellation and would like to stress the value of the fact that, as political leaders, we stand together in our clear position on freedom of expression for employees in School-Norway and in the public sector. I believe that it is important in itself that we, as leaders, show such a clear attitude about this, and I hope that it will also be noticed. Limitations on freedom of expression must be justified. That is also the reason why, in the letter I sent to the municipalities as a municipal minister, I underlined the following: ‘The Communities should, first and foremost, ensure that they do not have guidelines or regulations which go too far in restricting the freedom of expression of employees. Municipalities should review such regulations, etc. and assess whether they are in line with the applicable law.’;» In addition, it says: ‘The work to ensure effective freedom of expression for employees is a continuous process. It requires more than just good guidelines and regulations. Municipalities should therefore consider, in addition to reviewing regulations and procedures, other concrete measures to ensure the freedom of expression of employees.’;» This is important, because we can discuss guidelines, but basically this is about what culture it is in the municipalities, in the schools and in the public vocabulary. Finally, I would like to stress the importance of the legitimacy of a leader also depending on the openness of debate and critical input into this public discussion. Over time, the legitimacy will be undermined by drawing the loyalty obligation too far.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-06.ana.ud441e303	First, I would like to thank the representative, Marit Arnstad, for taking up the work of increasing the culture of expression in school. It's an engagement we share. I also thank the Minister of Knowledge for the answer so far. It's hard to have a debate about opinion culture in school without mentioning Simon Malkenes, which was a lot of news in ours. Teacher Simon Malkenes is perhaps a plague and a plague for many. He talks without raising his hand first. He did not answer the question asked. He asks his own questions. He disagrees with the previous speaker. He's trying to erase that corner of the board where it says "let stand" over adopted truths. He can be quite annoying. I don't always agree with Simon Malkenes. I have understood that other representatives in this room and in other offices nearby almost never agree with him. That's why we need the Milkens. I'll say it like this: everyone should have their own Milkens. Officials and ordinary workers know where the shoe prints. They can give valuable feedback because they not only report but also experience everyday life in the classroom or in the hospital, in the home service, in child protection, in the municipality. They can tell us something about how we can do things better. These are feedbacks we get in no other way than that employees both dare and know that they can use their voice to develop, adjust and influence. It is a dynamic that is necessary for us to develop society and not be locked in old routines. Or, as Vice President of the Workers' Party, Hadia Tajik said in the Evening Post on 28 April this year: ‘Variable workers who are safe in their profession and who dare to be critical are one of the things we need most.’ We need a culture to ameliorate concerns, thoughts and judgemental assessments in Norwegian schools as well. I've been talking to elected representatives who say that it's impossible to get members to tell about critical matters. They are concerned that the criticism is going to go beyond the school’s reputation, and that in this way they are losing the fight for students. They are afraid of represals from leaders and others in the municipality and the school system — not formally, but that they are being overlooked in terms of wages, job losses or being excluded from the community in various ways. If that's true, there's a situation we can't tolerate. It's a management responsibility to create a different culture. One of the measures is more trust-based management. It is about hearing, but it is also about being able to participate. The Red-Green City Council in Oslo has taken initiatives based on the Urban Council Declaration, which reads: «A close cooperation with employees and trust in the professional competences and assessments of employees form the basis of our governance of the municipality.» The employer must have the right to control. Staff shall have freedom of expression. If freedom of expression is to be restricted, the burden of proof must lie with those who would restrict it. We need mechanisms to resolve conflicts. We need a few clear goals for what we're doing, and we need low door thresholds and high ceiling levels to say from and deal with issues, questions and perceptions about conditions in the workplace that are not good enough. We should work knowledge-based, but also based on trust and mutual respect. I believe that the intention of target management, incentives and control has often been good. The objective has been to optimise the use of Community funds. Having a goal for what you're doing, and an overview of how things develop, is good and important. But we've ended up with too many and detailed goals, one of the everyday things teachers say is run by too many reports, and that we don't take advantage of the skills available at school, well enough. This is related. Employees with competence must also use that competence to express themselves and have participation in school development. The Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party have promoted in our proposal for trust reform. If I'm going to draw out a vote that has disappointed me in this period, it's that this was voted down. I hear Mr. Sanner's answer. He says a lot that is both important and correct, but to me it sounds very much like a plan for the status quo. I miss more ambitious goals and measures. Finally, it is easy to make demands whether there are grades in math, competence requirements or master requirements to become a teacher. It is more demanding to show the trust that must come with a profession where you must be both competent, motivated and highly competent.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-06.ana.ud441e335	The objective paragraph of the Training Act collects 13 years of schooling under general principles. The school will open the doors of the world to the students. This is the broad political consensus on it. The main development work in the school takes place in each school. It requires the involvement of both pupils and teachers in order to make better decisions for the school, and trust management must be the basis for school management. Today, we would like the Council of State to be even more specific in its ambitions for this very leadership. In the spring, as the previous speaker pointed out, the Centre Party, the Workers' Party and SV proposed a trust reform in school, among others. We pointed to fewer and clearer objectives, objectives reflecting the school's social mandate, co-determination and trust as a basis for decisions, and that the community and responsibility of the profession are crucial in the management of the school. We encouraged this in order to ensure that the students' prerequisites for good life with creative, commitment and exploration status are respected, that we have teachers who get framework conditions to do the job they want – in order to do this. The objective paragraph also points to the participation of students, and we must also say that the participation of teachers is crucial. The political parties perceive differently what is good school management, and what frameworks must be in place. The Centre Party believes that good administrative, political and professional management assumes that it is clear who has authority and responsibility in different situations. The size, like the government, must be conscious of its role. Trust-based management must rely on mutual trust. There are trust investigations in several parts of the world, including: in Sweden. The need for mutual trust between actors is being raised on the global agenda. Furthermore, international school research is said to strengthen the learning of teachers and teachers if they develop mutual trust and build trust relations with rivers and fortresses. Trust is not unlimited freedom, but a clear understanding of authority and responsibility. There must be a link between the availability of time and resources and the expectations set. Teacher after teacher calls out for warning about the development of the school. The fact that more and more people are calling for their commitment to the students and subjects to be drowned in packaging and requirements and documentation testifies that there is not enough confidence. Trust is a characteristic of Norway. We trust that people want to do their job properly, and they trust that the taxes they pay are managed sensibly. But in school, rights are at risk of becoming more important than the social mission of a competitive society. Are we going to do this with prestige and politics in local good work, or are we going ahead of politicians as good examples of confidence in local initiatives? The centre party will strike a blow for increased trust in Norway and will continue to work for a continuous trust reform. Today's government puts our willingness to cooperate and the spirit of hard work to the test, with greatness, coercive mergers, tenders and outsourcing as a community project. We've seen the failure of teachers, with a fourth requirement in mathematics that doesn't recognise the offer of teacher training offering for the development of teacher candidates. We've seen the separation of thousands of teachers as well as a teaching norm with centralizing economic incentives. Is this government’s way of showing trust to teachers and teachers? Fortunately, the stones have begun to roll. State councils point out that we're going to get hold of the time thieves at school and work to involve the teachers in the work on new curricula. I look forward to further debate, I look forward to working for increased trust in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-06.ana.ud441e354	We as society need that critical conditions not be pushed under the carpet. Those who work in our welfare services are sitting on a unique knowledge of how it actually stands behind the façade, a façade that politicians often want to clear up. The knowledge they're sitting on is crucial for all of us who use the welfare services. If the employees can't say from, they're not just losing their own freedom of expression, we're also losing the opportunity to be exposed and corrected in critical circumstances. That's why we need teachers, health professionals and nursery workers who say so. One of these is Simon Malkenes. He told us about the reality behind the façade in the long-standing right-hand rule of Oslo School. He showed us how character-based admissions in combination with unit price financing of the students reinforced the problems in Oslo School. The milkers did this because he believed – and believes – that today’s system does not ensure that students receive equivalent training. The dairy case was an example of the fact that those who work in classrooms, who learn new generations of democracy, even lack a fundamental right, when their opinions are tried by leaders up in the system. The Milkes case isn't just about one teacher. 81 teachers from Nydalen secondary school supported the Malkenes and wrote that ‘Osloskolen has a serious problem with a management culture that leads to fear and uncertainty among employees’. 363 teachers from other schools in Oslo signed the following: "We believe that our freedom of expression is under pressure." The Chief Protection Officer of the Education Office of Oslo has described ‘a culture of fear in which many employees do not dare to express themselves, because they are, among other things, afraid to harm the reputation of the school’. Unfortunately, this does not apply only to Oslo. 74 Akershus teachers have written: «We are many in Akershu County that also support Simon Malkenes. Realities described in the newspapers apply not only to the Oslo Schools but probably to schools throughout the country.’ This is confirmed by the 2017 Lektor team membership study, which shows that more than four out of ten of the Lektor team’s teachers are afraid to express themselves critically about their own workplace, in fear of negative reactions. This is very serious. This means that critical relationships that may affect learners' situation and learning conditions are suppressed because teachers are afraid of represals from management. Then the Malkenes case took a new twist in the fall – during the battle for the education director's further employment in Oslo. It's interesting because that fight made many Right-People – high and low – engage and go in almost some kind of torch in support of the Chief of Mission, including Høre's former Minister of Knowledge Kristin Klemet. The interesting thing here was that the Right People attacked anyone – even in the press – who aired their thoughts that the motives of anonymous directors for noticing might be different from just telling us about bad things, and said that it could actually destroy the Alert Institute that someone was right with these top directors. What was not said was that the situation in Oslo School under the leadership of the Study has been well known back to 2004, when there was a dramatic decline in the teachers' experience of freedom of expression and the possibility of telling of critical circumstances. In our view, the Malkenes case – and also the aftermaths of the fall – shows that a minister is needed who not only talks hot and well about freedom of expression but who specifically shows what the government will now do to strengthen freedom of expression and strengthen alert protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-06.ana.ud441e379	What should be done to strengthen the culture of freedom of expression in school? That's a good question. I would like to start by saying that I think it is a pity that someone has to raise this question on the floor of the House of Commons. The tone-setting teacher organisations in Norway are clear and clear that the need for a trust reform in the school – where the professional space for action increases, where the teacher is given time and space for action, and where decisions and responsibilities are shifted downwards in the system to the principal and teachers in cooperation – is great. 850 professors in Oslo School made clear this need in ours through a letter to the reader. If the school is to be good and safe for all students, we politicians need to know what works and what needs to be changed. A prerequisite for this is that those who know the school in the body — principals, teachers, students and parents — both dry, will and will experience it as meaningful to participate in the debate. They must experience that they are being heard, and, when they say about serious matters, that they are being listened to, and that they are being taken as ‘action’. They must never experience that saying from behind is unfair or problematic for the school's economy. Six different studies carried out by the Education Prohibition, Norwegian Lektorlag and professionals show a clear need for improvement, as well as for school leaders, teachers and public employees: 85 pst. school leaders believe that more stringent standards of loyalty have been imposed on school staff. 30 pst. teachers are afraid of publicly criticising school conditions in fear of negative reactions. 56 pst. by the Vice-Chancellors, it is not acceptable to be able to give a critical opinion on the priorities or policies of the school owners. 30 pst. by the teachers, in whole or in part, disagree that they can participate in the public education debate without being confronted with negative reactions from the principal or local school authorities. In general, Fafo’s study shows that public employees experience worse conditions of appearance than private employees. We can't have it that way. We depend entirely on a good relationship of trust between the public and the people for whom the service is offered. It must then be safe for employees to participate in the social debate on their jobs and the services they create. Like the representative Martin Henriksen, I miss more ambitious targets from the minister on the representative of Marit Arnstad's question. The question I ask myself, over and over again, in this connection, is: Wouldn't a trust reform be the first step on the road?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-06.ana.ud441e407	I would also like to thank the representative Arnstad for addressing this important debate. There is no doubt that we need a better culture to raise concerns, thoughts and judgements in Norwegian school, and the Milkenes case has clearly pointed to the challenges of just the culture of expression in school. That matter and the subsequent debate have also given us some valuable input into how to create a better and more listening school for both teachers, students and school leaders. And the case has led to change. The Milkes case has shown the value of someone using their freedom of expression and speaking out. I think it is good that the Council of State, Mr Sanner, today emphasises that this debate itself is important, and not least emphasises that we, as political leaders, must show positions that underpin this and be good examples. But at the same time, I find it a little sad to see that the Right is not entirely true to this even in the public debate, as when the representative Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde from the Right says in a Facebook movie when she refers to the Malkenes case, that he describes the Oslo School very black-and-white – there are 17 000 other teachers. This is an example of a marginalization, that one marginalizes the experience of a teacher rather than listening to what the teacher really says and goes into the discussion about how the school can get even better. Then Sanner is going to achieve his goal of improving this debate, since we must also avoid this kind of marginalisation that the Right has driven in this debate. Because it's not just one teacher. It shows the support Malkenes received from several colleagues this spring. I also think it is good that Sanner, in his contribution, sees the challenges of freedom of expression and the culture of expression in the school. It is also good that Sanner has now started a dialogue with the associations. But I also want to ask for the concrete measures to avoid that we are on the status quo. What did you conclude at your meeting in October? What does the Council of State now want to do after the dialogue he has had with the confederations? For this debate can not only be about what we from Stortinget expect the schools to do. They must also be able to expect back that the Storting and the government are doing something. So once again, I want to give the Council of State an opportunity to say something about what he, as Minister of Knowledge, wants to do with this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-06.ana.ud441e416	I would like to thank the representatives for an interesting debate. I want to start by recalling again the main reason for freedom of expression – this is also a quote from Anine Kierulf – and that is the collective justification, namely that we protect freedom of expression for the sake of all of us. It is therefore particularly important that public servants also dare to express themselves, because they are professionals and have a particular professional insight and experience that we all need to know about. I think it's important that we have in mind. Otherwise, a lot has been said here about politics, and we must recognize that the government's quite extensive work on testing, targeting and ranking has become a driver of school competition, and it has created a dissent and a system critique that may go further than before. Many of the things we've seen in recent years are just about that. However, systemic criticism is very important, and it must be allowed to be seen, because it is not less, but more quality of experience, views and system criticism. Sick if the individual may be irritating to some, the sea if local politicians may be irritated, the sea if administrative leaders think it could harm the reputation of the school administration, and the sea if it seems to be connected to single-pisods, one must open up and debate, defend and have a dissenting opinion on this. Finally, I want to focus on that there's nothing negative that can get out of it. It's almost just positive things that can get out of it. It is developing for the school as an institution, it will correct things that go in the wrong direction, it will promote innovation, and it will prevent the legalisation of a part of the public sector that should not be legalised. I also think it is important to say that this also applies to other areas. As others have pointed out here, the need for trust reform in the public sector is great. This applies at school, but it also applies in the health sector and in the field of preparedness and police. In these areas, too, I believe that one will find similar problems with regard to the possibility and freedom of expression and the possibility of having the opinion that a public sector wishes. The public sector is, after all, the community that we elected and politicians are set to be in and rule. Then we depend on a broad and open debate, on all kinds of viewpoints, and on the freedom of expression of all opinion, regardless of whether there is irritation due to specific objectives, frameworks, tests or tests that some political forces or administration within School-Norway have set in motion.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-06.ana.ud441e430	Finally, I would also like to thank you for a good debate on an important topic. The representative of Mona Fagerås said that it was a pity that this had to be addressed in the Stockholm Chair. I agree that it is unacceptable that employees at school experience a fear of using their freedom of speech. At the same time, I think it is good that the matter is addressed in Stortinget. I can't really imagine a more important theme to travel from the Great Britain's pulpit than the conditions of freedom of expression in our society in general and for employees in school in particular. Freedom of expression is a prerequisite for our democracy, and a good culture of expression is important for the trust and cohesion on which our society is to be built. I also agree with what Marit Arnstad says, that we must tolerate what is unpleasant, and what may be annoying. I want to add that it's better that it comes out in public space than that it gets yeast in more enclosed spaces. So we're all served with an open discussion, it creates legitimacy for the public sector and for leaders. There is also a discussion about trust reform, and it is a debate I would like to take, but I just want to remind you once again that a trust reform must be carried out, as a politician, one must also be able to resist when all the demands are made on the detailed management of the school. It's no more than a week since we discussed the requirement to restrict teachers' freedom of method by using physical activity in mathematics and social science – but leave it a parentheses. I believe that the question of trust is important. The government and the ministry are now working on the subject of trade renewal – which is important – and a review of the Training Act. And we've now started a new and reinforced job of erasing time thieves in school. It is also important for both school leaders and teachers to have more room to do what they need to do, to ensure that children both learn and master at school.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-06.ana.ud441e437	The debate on substance is closed. So 1 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-06.ana.ud441e455	The centre party has for a long time recognised the place of public higher education schools in the education system in Norway. For many it is a different year, a year when they finally find themselves. You ask people who have gone to public high school, they often say it was the best year of their lives. In long, busy and stressed lives, such a year stands as inspiration and motivation to build on. Increasingly the search for and interest in public schools also shows how widespread they are. The fact is that many more would wish they could go to public high school, without them getting it. In fact, many well-established public schools would like to have room for more students, without them having it. In fact, many new public schools will be established, without the government wanting to finance it. A year ago, the entire building shook, when Eidsvoll's square was full of dedicated current and former teachers and students who fought against cut. In the proposal for the financial year 2019 from the Government to the Grand Duchy, we read: ‘People’s higher education schools do not have an exam, and students stay at school. Schools set their own values, and they have educational freedom. Public schools have different types of courses in a number of areas. There are a total of 79 public schools spread throughout the country. The figure includes Nordnorsk Pensionist School and Norwegian Centre for Senior Development, which are both recognised as public high school-like measures and receive supplements after public high school law.» Furthermore, we read that in 2017 there were over 8,000 year-olds at short and long courses. For 2019, proposals have been made for two new public high schools, and the grant is fortunately maintained and even strengthened from the level of the year, but this has not always been the case. The government also wishes to continue to cut short rates. We believe that short courses have a lot to offer in a training perspective for the future, either for young people, disabled people, the elderly or others. Removing these will have consequences for thousands of course participants from many vulnerable groups. It will also ensnare public schools, more than necessary, as a training and activity engine in local communities. In addition, the government’s board of public high schools is restrictive. The purpose of the high school in accordance with its own law is precisely to promote public education and public information. We can ask ourselves, what is a public high school? Some public high schools will refer to themselves as a value- and internalised, comprehensive and free learning arena for professional, personal, social and democratic formation, where students become active citizens of society in a sustainable world. Experience and equivalency are central. Young people use public schools to find their place in life, to find their orientation and motivation in a complex world in terms of work, education and social life. We can also ask: what is the public high school? What do the young people who go there learn? It's hard to measure competence on a character scale, and grades don't belong in public schools, but anyone who goes there, everyone who works there and knows someone who's gone there, can notice the increase in skills. They can see the development of students during the year. When you talk to parents or bosses about how they feel that their son or daughter has changed and evolved after a year in public high school, there is no doubt that schools have an enormous impact on learning. We need to discuss the function of public schools in the education system and their framework. People's high schools need to be better at communicating, so that people who are involved in school and education understand what it's all about. It is about the school's areas of competence, the development of pupils and the broad societal mission. The contribution of public schools to this is important. We can ask ourselves what skills you actually develop in a year at public high school. Is this what society benefits from? Åsane Folkehögskole and Nordhordland Folkehögskole have tried to designate four areas of competence. They point to interaction, creativity, emotional competence and global competence. We get reflective students who cooperate, who find solutions and better understand others, themselves and the world we live in – how they are part of a whole. This needs individuals, communities and the global world. The centre party thinks we should give more opportunities to go to public high school. We should give the public high school better and more predictable framework conditions. Today there is a gap between the study funding and what it actually costs for the student to go to public high school and what it costs for the schools to have the students there. This means that some people take in more students than they really have a grant, and that some students can't afford to go to public high school. Most of the students come straight from high school and have limited opportunities to make money before going to public high school. They also do not have the opportunity to make money while they go there, because they have training both on the evenings and on the weekends. The centre party wants to step up support for the study also for high school students. Public schools should be an offer to which all young people throughout Norway have equal opportunities to apply. Public higher education schools are centres of excellence within a wide range of subjects. Folk high schools have long traditions. The courses attract many different people and are essential for public schools to achieve the intention of the law to run public education and general education in a broad perspective. In total, public schools offer courses to young people, older people and different groups in society, with different challenges, and to people with different disabilities. This in turn enables schools to make full use of their capacity and resources in a good and flexible way. In the preliminary work on the Law on Public Higher Education, the following words were formulated: ‘People’s higher education institutions should actively contribute to the implementation of the Skills Reform by developing short-term courses aimed at the local community, the labour force and groups in need of flexible and organised training.’ The government itself has also expressed an offensive view of knowledge, activity, development and competence. I can quote from the government platform: ‘Work life is changing rapidly and demands increasing competence. Everyone needs to fill knowledge in their careers. The government will facilitate better skills and career development in different venues and throughout life. Higher education institutions are an important part of the diversity of educational provision.’ From the government's own words, there is reason to be ambitious and positive on behalf of the future of public schools, but we also have to ask the question: What does the government think about the function of public schools in the education system, and will the government strengthen predictability in order to operate public schools and to apply for a public high school? Here I have to say that it is a mountain-and-dal-course from one year to another.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-06.ana.ud441e500	Let me first thank you for a good interpellation. There is no doubt that the representative has a great heart for the higher education institutions. I'm going to try to express some of the views and reflections that the government is making around the position of higher education institutions. For over 150 years, higher education institutions have been an important part of the Norwegian education system. The first school in Norway was Sagatun Folkehöjskole at Hamar, which started in 1864. The Danish pedagogue and theologian Grundtvig developed the idea of a Nordic college in the 1800s. Grundtvig was critical of the creation ideal of the day, which was built on drilling and pudding. Grundtvig thought that learning should not consist primarily of pugging and terping, of theories that had little to do with students' everyday lives. Instead, learning was to be developed through the living word, in conversation between the student and the teacher, and in lectures where the students' everyday lives were in focus. He pictured a school that weighed up social awareness between the individual and society, and where the whole human being was in focus. The national colleges were established in many ways as a counterbalance to the public schools, which used to drive puggs and had a learning content that was far too many. Fortunately, these contradictions have become less today, both because we have a school that has a different perspective on learning than 150 years ago, and because the national colleges are today more integrated into the Norwegian education system. In this context, I would like to mention that with the major renewal of the subjects in the school we are now in the process, important themes such as democracy and citizenship, sustainable development, public health and lifelong learning will become more visible in school. These themes represent knowledge and values that will help us to learn, live and work together in a complex world now and in the future – not as far away from what national colleges stand for. We need a school system that prepares students to meet and shape the future, and we need a varied, liberal and inclusive education system. In this system, higher education institutions have a natural place as a supplement and alternative. Too many students are the first time they live at home. Students meet young people from all over the country – and other countries. They get new perspectives, take new subjects and meet new learning methods. For many, this will be a year of maturity, a year of life - preparation. The self-development of the students is the goal. Universities are not part of any formal education, and schools are unbound by syllabus and formal learning objectives. They're free of exams, too. Universities are an arena where young people can test out their interests and, in cooperation with teachers, maybe find out where the way forward in life is going. The pilot project The Mentor scheme in public schools is an example of this. In this scheme, students are followed up by a mentor and the aim is to increase the motivation for completing secondary education. Those who have participated in this are happy, and I hope that the national colleges can still be a good offer for students who need a break in high school. The government is concerned both with ensuring the predictability of higher education institutions and the possibilities for further development of the school team. In 2013, the public schools had a total of 712 million. kr. In the draft budget for 2019, the allocation is 885 million. kr. That's a nominal increase of 173 million. kr. So far, since 2013, three national colleges have been approved. From 1991 to 2013, only one new higher education institution was approved. This shows that the government rates at the national colleges. In the examination of the 2018 State Budget, the following request decisions were adopted: ‘The government is asked to engage in dialogue with the higher education institutions with a view to finding a model to phase out grants for short-term courses in which the basic appropriations will be increased accordingly.’ The government is in dialogue with the Swedish National College Council to find a good future model to turn the grant away from short-term courses and into long-term courses, allowing more young people to take a year at a high school. Of the total basic appropriations for the 848 million higher education institutions. kr represents the grant for the short courses almost 5 pst., i.e. approximately 40 million. kr. There is a wide variation between schools in the proportion of short-term rates of total activity. Typical short courses are courses within song/coir, dance, handicrafts, cultural trips and various types of sport. The courses are consistently distant from the purposes of higher education and social missions. About half of the participants in a short course are over 50 years old. The possibilities for further development of higher education institutions for the benefit of students will be strengthened if the grant for the short courses is phased out and the basic appropriations increased accordingly. I will come back to Stortinget with detailed suggestions on how this can be done. Professional freedom is a basic value for the higher education institutions, and schools have the freedom to design their own content. This means that it is largely up to the schools themselves to take the initiative to develop further. Colleges today offer a wide range of courses and courses, and in recent years many have applied to the long-term courses of higher education institutions. At the national colleges there are over 300 different subjects, and students can learn about everything from film and animation to motor, dance, theater, farm, sports and outdoors. I have the impression that most higher education institutions adapt the course portfolio to the demand of young applicants. This suggests that higher education institutions are able to develop further and adapt to the needs and wants of young people. I would also like to remind you that the Swedish Law of 1 August this year opens the door to the recognition of a national college at Svalbard. An application has been submitted by Svalbard Public School, and the government has allocated funds for the approval of the school in the draft budget for the following year, starting in 2019. It will be a very important grant to the higher education institutions and could be a major factor in the development of both the Svalbard community and the future contribution of those students to the Norwegian community. I believe that national colleges have an important role to play today and in the future. Universities can make a positive contribution to meeting several of the challenges we face. The school team is responsible for something entirely of its own and is approaching the students in a slightly different way from the rest of the education system. The self-development of the students is central to the higher education institutions. Schools have an important place through their social pedagogical tradition and ability to motivate young people and create a desire for further learning. The government is committed to maintaining predictable frameworks for the higher education institutions. I believe that the schools have the framework and predictability necessary for them to have a high-quality offer and the ability to further develop within their broad mandate and societal mission.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-06.ana.ud441e545	I would like to thank the Council of State for its response. Many young people have — and will hopefully continue to have — great pleasure in going to public higher education, and it is good that the government makes commitments to more new public higher education schools. They are also an important part of the Norwegian education system with their contribution to lifelong learning. It is great that the Minister of Knowledge is concerned with education and young people also in a wide range of practical and aesthetic subjects. The Short Courses also consider the Centre Party to be an important offer and valuable to those participating. Then I have to be a little curious about the announced reform of competence that the government has in mind, where the need for a shorter course is important for them over 50 years. Then, of course, lifelong learning and public high schools and short courses could be an element in it. And then we have to recognise the place of public schools in the education system. Last year it was suggested that the support for the schools be cut. Then both the schools and the students and the offer would be affected. That would lead to fewer students. Fewer students are also at risk of being cut into student support. We must be aware of this when the draft budget is presented. I would also like to refer to a prominent Right-wing politician named Kåre Willoch, who has a granddaughter who himself has attended Valdre's National University School. I can quote him as follows: «We have received a thorough confirmation of what we knew: for an excellent, joyous and uplifting institution the public high school is». This was what Kåre Willoch said in his speech at the graduation party at Valdres Folkehøgskole. There are such examples and experiences we need to get more, and there are such examples and experiences we must not limit to a minority of the Norwegian population. The Minister of Knowledge has himself raised the issue of lifelong learning and the value of increased skills in the population. Here, too, public schools are an alarm clock. They are governed by law and follow regulations on how the school offer and courses are to be carried out. And then I have to ask: does the Right and the Government think that the utility of public schools should be better documented or otherwise regulated? Can we expect increased subsidies to public high schools in the future? And the mentoring system, which the state council boasts of, has been rejected by the Ministry of Knowledge on an application for funds in the current year. Will it be done on this? The central party perceives the value of the schools and will fight against cuts from the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-06.ana.ud441e569	There were several issues the representative raised. Let me first say that from the time I was in the Education Committee, in the 1990s, until my own daughter went to high school a few years ago, and that I am now in charge of this field. I want to give a great deal of recognition to the ability of higher education institutions to develop and adapt to both the societal challenges we have, and the opportunities that students themselves are seeking. There is no doubt that many students both need and benefit from having a foot in the ground after 13 years of compulsory school. The ability to do something completely different can both contribute to more maturity and also contribute to the development and extension of perspectives, which allow choices to be made for further studies to be safer and better. I think it's important that the national colleges have the freedom to evolve in line with the spirit of time, while, of course, taking care of the traditions you have. That's why I don't see any need for the national colleges to have a new regulation. On the contrary, I think it is important that the national colleges have the freedom to adapt to the time we live in. With regard to the mentoring system, it is correct, as the representative says, that they have received a rejection of the application. At the same time, the Swedish National Council for Higher Education also has the means to enable the Swedish National Council for Higher Education itself to give priority to this important scheme. Once we have rejected the application, it is because the funds have been used up. We have, as I have pointed out, contributed to the emergence of more national colleges, and that more students then have the opportunity to choose this school team. Then, as I pointed out in my article, we have a dialogue with the Swedish National College Council on the short-term syllabus system. We believe that it is more important that we give priority to the long-term courses. It is that in the years that come, with tighter budgets, we will face some tougher priority discussions, and then we believe that it is better to give priority to the long-term courses for young people than to give priority to short-term courses, which have a much broader impact field, and where over half is over 50 years old.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-06.ana.ud441e582	We have to learn throughout our lives, in several ways, even outside the formal education system. Interpellent query: ‘What does the government think is the function of public high schools in the education system, and will the government strengthen the predictability of schools and the possibilities for further development of the school team?’ Folk high school is an alternative that is without grades and exams, but that can provide learning and new motivation. Not least, it can give our young people extra time to think about what they're going to spend the rest of their lives and how they're going to get there. And most importantly, it can provide a valuable breathing space from a character press that becomes more and more applicable elsewhere in the educational cycle. Never has it been more popular to go to high school. There are 79 schools all over the country. Last fall, over 7,700 students started at a folk high school. It was a new record for the third consecutive year. At the same time, we know that one in four does not complete further education within five years. We also know that the drop-out rate in higher education is about the same. The Labour Party believes that we need the offer offered by higher education institutions, also because it can contribute to minor drop-outs in higher education, and it can give de-motivated students the ballast and the belief in themselves that are needed to complete secondary education. Then we can mention that in 2016, 130 refugees were students at the national colleges, because the national colleges set up when needed. They take social responsibility, they get confidence – at least from the opposition. So we know that for the third time in four years, the Right Party government has proposed cuts to the national colleges. In 2014 and 2015 the other parties at Stortinget got it fixed up. The last time we stopped being cut off in the budget for 2018, and now we believe that it must soon be enough. Those who want to cut the subsidy for this school offer show a lack of insight into what the higher education institutions are and why they are important. We typically find, as the representative Knutsdatter Strand was involved, no commitment to broad competence, neither in the draft budget nor in the government's ideas on competence reform. There is a clear demonstration of repeated cuts to the national colleges. That's just not good enough. Rather than cutting to higher education institutions, cutting interest-rate exemptions from previous education and cutting the grant rate for students who do not complete a degree but for various reasons either exchange studies or drop out, the Workers' Party will bet on the higher education institutions, study centres, adult education and informal education, better follow-up of the students, career guidance – yes, simply equal opportunities for education and competence for all, not only for those with rich parents or who have everything else in their life. We've been around and we've met several higher education institutions in the last year – the Rønningen Folkehøgskole here in Oslo, but also in Orkdal and the one who's going to Svalbard. Then we met happy, engaged students who had time to deepen their interests, make friends and develop themselves professionally and socially. I am particularly impressed by the tension in the subject and offers at the national colleges, and I have also noticed the way the students learn with other students and with the teachers. The rest of the education system, I think, has a lot to learn from the way the national colleges teach, and how they work to create a school where everyone can succeed. The population needs to do a political work on the national colleges. The Swedish National College Council has taken the initiative of a review of the rules to land a forward-looking model for the financing of short-term courses. We support that in the Labour Party. We think you have to talk to the national colleges, not just talk about them. We also want a case on the support and funding schemes in the higher education institutions that help to make the primary school a real offer for everyone. This should be discussed not only in budgetary terms, but at a fundamental and thoughtful level. Then I will end by thanking the representative Knutsdatter Strand for raising the question today. It is good that the Workers' Party and the Center Party have a common ambition for the higher education institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-06.ana.ud441e608	Universities are an important part of the Norwegian education system. I can reassure the representative Nina Sandberg that there are more parties than the Workers' Party and the Center Party that have great ambitions for the National Colleges and see the value in them. Many young people and adults enjoy spending a year in high school. As state councillor Sanner was in, a year in high school for many young people is the first meeting with adult life. Many move from home for the first time and have to establish themselves on their own, standing on their own, in an unknown environment, with unknown people. Everyone knows someone who has attended a folk high school, who can tell about good experiences, learning and memories of life. I know a lot of people, and in retrospect, I would almost wish I had chosen a year myself in high school. Instead, I chose to spend a year between high school and studies in Denmark to run with what I liked best at the time, namely jumping. And so it's too many. This is an opportunity to spend time on what you like and are busy with, or try something completely new. For me, too, this was the first time I was going to stand on my own, and also for me this was a year when I could think about when it was going on, and "find me soul". I've never regretted it, and regrets don't do either any of those I know who have gone to high school. A year like this is important, good and useful for very many people, because not everyone is ready to start further studies or to go to work after completing high school. For many, therefore, high school is a good and exciting alternative offer to do something a little different. Folk high school is a place where young people meet across state boundaries, culture and religion, with a common interest in outdoor life, music, theatre, film, gaming, sports or old crafts techniques, to mention something. Universities are institutions of society, and they are cultural carriers. The year in folk high school is never forgotten as mentioned. It's a community that's been there, taking with it further into life. That's exactly why the government spends a total of 848 million. kr at national colleges in 2018. In comparison, it was used around 700 million. kr in 2013. An increase of 100 million. kr means that we have been able to expand the offer considerably in recent years. In Marit Knutsdatter Strand's posts today, it could almost be heard as if it were set up to weaken the higher education institutions and the students' ability to go there. I experience this as a strange description of reality, all the time the bet in the folk colleges has been and is as it is. I am also not familiar with the description in the representative Strand of a mountain- and valley-rail life for the national colleges. I guess the representative Strand had in mind the change that several people have experienced in supporting the so-called short courses, the course in which more than half of the participants belong to one of the most expensive groups in our society, people over 50 years old. It's actually a question of what the public is going to pay for, and I think this is one of the things that shouldn't be given priority. That is why I believe that an adjustment is right, and that is also something I believe will strengthen the national colleges and the offers to the many who will also in the future have the joy of spending time there. I also don't remember in the representative Nina Sandberg's wonder whether the right side understands the quality, purpose or meaning behind the national colleges. I am absolutely convinced that the representative Sandberg well knows that the right-hand side too, and we are actually showing that in practical policy. This government is committed to ensuring the predictability of the national colleges and the possibilities for further development, and I want to be involved in working so that many more young people can just experience and bring with them the experiences of a high school.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-06.ana.ud441e629	Those who have gone to public high school refer to it, as the previous speaker said, as one of the best years of their lives. In terms of education and public education, there is no doubt that public schools have an important place in the education system. The councils refer to their own experiences with public schools, and it's good to hear, because this is actually how you must have been at a public high school before you know what it's all about. The Council of State does not point to new regulations as the solution. He points out that they take social responsibility. But do today’s regulations recognise the potential of public schools? The Swedish National School Council framework is obviously well known and good, but it would be interesting to see if the Swedish National School Council is familiar with it. In tough priorities, they're also going to have to reduce other initiatives, and now when we set up the short courses against the long courses and say that the short courses are unfortunately going to have to go, I'm excited if you take over the consequences of this, and what public schools are warning that this will lead to. If, over the next year, we are going to see a reform of skills that will set up new short courses, new learning venues, new institutions that will also take care of those over 50 years that are not necessarily low-cost or have the skills they need to meet the changes in the world of work, it will be a terrible shame if we have left it beyond the short courses we already have at public schools, which are already easy to cope with today's changes in society. We have to ask ourselves, what is the future potential? Because that's exactly what this interpolation is about. What is the function of public schools in the education system? We can already see that public schools have launched two major projects: mental health and lifelong learning. If there's something we have to recognise today, it's just that primary school doesn't grow motivated and happy students to a large extent. More and more people are experiencing solitude, even at an increasingly younger age. Primary and secondary education may have something to learn from public schools, and we may also have to recognise that public schools should have a greater place in the education system in Norway. Who knows what the future brings? This has been an interesting discussion, and it has not been on the praises of public schools. We have to take that as a good sign.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-06.ana.ud441e642	I would also like to thank you for a good debate. There is a great deal of recognition in the laws given by different representatives in this inter-pelling round. I think it is important that we also raise and discuss the national colleges. When I said in a previous answer that there is no need for new regulation, it is not about me not being open to look at the framework. We should always be open to look at the framework conditions, both for schools and other businesses. My point is that I don't see the need for us to narrow down the framework conditions of higher education and for them to be more regulated into the ordinary education system. I think it's important that colleges have a free position and can be both a supplement and an alternative. I also think it is important that we look at the short courses, primarily on the basis of a priority discussion, so that we can give a greater room for the main effort to the higher education institutions, which are long courses for young people. Then it is right, as the representative points out, that we are also involved in a reform of competence. Competence reform is about ensuring that those in work have the skills they need to take on new tasks and maintain their links with the labour market. Of course, national colleges have an opportunity to also participate in that discussion, even though I would think that it is primarily the vocational schools, the vocational education, the university and higher education sectors and also the private sector that will have an important role to play in the reform of competences. But, of course, the national colleges can have their own discussion and see what they can contribute to the reform Learn throughout their lives. So, finally, to Nina Sandberg, who believes that the national colleges are down-priority under the bourgeois government. Of course, all budget lines have to take a critical look at a budgetary process, but now when we look at the figures and results of the cooperation between the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Progress Party and the Right, we see that in the period 2013-2018, the appropriations have increased by a nominal of 173 million. kr. Three new higher education institutions have been established, while only one new higher education institution was established in the period 1991–2013. I think these numbers speak for themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-06.ana.ud441e653	The debate on substance is closed. So 2 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-06.ana.ud441e671	Norway has considerable efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. There are many fronts, and large amounts are used for the purpose. The government's climate policy also produces results. The emissions went down by about 1.7 pst. from 2016 to 2017, and an important reason for that is the government’s transport policy. Biofuel investment is one of these measures. Biofuels are part of the solution for reducing emissions from transport. This must not be a discussion about whether we are in favour of or against the use of biofuels. The main measure and the government’s main investment are electrification of the vehicle fleet, but in the longer term climate-friendly biofuels are likely to be particularly important in order to reduce emissions in aviation and heavy transport. The government has an ambitious policy with the aim of involving both 2020 and 2030. Interference and exemption requirements have resulted in a higher level of interference than the requirement, and the 2020 requirement was almost reached as early as 2017. In 2017, 659 million were used. litres of biofuels for road transport in Norway, compared to 423 million. litres in 2016. The strong growth has been in the use of biofuels made from palm oil. In 2017, there were 317 million. litre of biodiesel made from palm oil, corresponding to 46 pst. of all biofuels, an increase from 16 pst. in 2016. The average was 10 pst. of all diesel sold in Norway in 2017, made from palm oil. We see that these numbers have also resulted in increased turnover of advanced biofuels, which have a higher climate benefit, but we see that 46 pst. of the biofuels used in Norway were produced from palm oil. We know that the use of biofuels from palm oil poses a risk of emissions from indirect land use change, which means that there is a high risk that such use would result in the deforestation of rainforest. If the government's commitment to biofuels is to be a success for the climate and the environment, the use of palm oil needs to be reduced, while the use of advanced biofuels is being increased. What we now see is that it is challenging to get second-generation biofuels – or advanced biofuels, if you want – that force suppliers to import palm oil. Norwegian production of advanced biofuels is currently limited. Borregaard in Sarpsborg produces 20 million. LIT, but there are many plans for increased production, and several factories are planned around the country. The industry suggests that production could be about 370 million. litres from 2022. I believe we have serious actors who see the challenge of using palm oil. I am absolutely sure that we have a government that sees the same challenge, and I am sure that the majority in this Chamber have a wish that the use of palm oil should be reduced. Access to advanced fuels will increase in a few years. We have to dare to ask the question whether we are going to achieve Norwegian climate targets at the expense of more deforestation of rainforests, or whether we are facilitating a policy that better facilitates demand and access to biofuels. Nearly half of the biofuels sold last year were made from palm oil. Several have stated that consumers are tricked into believing that the fuel they are thinking is more environmentally friendly than it actually is. Biofuel use is a clear environmental benefit for Norway, but it is negative for the rainforest. The Rain Forest Fund claims that over half of the deforestation in the last ten years is due to agriculture and special production of palm oil. Thus, the Norwegian biofuel industry is at odds with Norway’s international effort to slow down the deforestation of the rainforest, which has cost 23.5 billion. kr in the last 10 years. Increased palm oil use seems to have a contradictory effect on the international effort to prevent the deforestation of rainforest, and my question is: What measures will the Council of State put in place to limit the use of palm oil in Norwegian biofuels?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-06.ana.ud441e694	The representative of Halleland puts the spotlight on an important issue, namely the climate impact of the use of biofuels in Norway and how we can reduce the use of palm oil. The Government has set ambitious targets for halving emissions from the transport sector by 2030. The most important thing we do is to plan social development so that transport needs are reduced, and that we make the transition to collective, bicycle and times to the best option for as much as possible. Secondly, we must phase in zero-emission technologies as quickly as possible. Electric car sales so far this year are about 30 pst. It is a comprehensive commitment to zero emissions. In addition, it is necessary to replace fossil fuels with climate-friendly biofuels in order to achieve our objectives. Biofuels are also part of the solution for achieving the objectives of reducing emissions from the transport sector. The government is concerned that the use of biofuels should have a good climate impact. All biofuels traded in Norway meet the EU sustainability criteria. First, biofuels must achieve at least a net savings in greenhouse gas emissions of 50 pst. compared to ordinary fossil biofuels. For new installations the requirement is 60 pst. Climate effects are taken into account throughout the production chain, from cultivation and extraction of raw materials for final use. The areas on which the biofuel raw material is grown are also subject to requirements. It has to be demonstrated by aerial photographs or data from official databases that no rainforest has been cut or drained in order to obtain land for raw material production. Norway is also working towards the EU to influence its legislative design in such a way that the climate impact of biofuels is strict. In the context of the consultation on the revised renewable directive, the Norwegian authorities indicated that indirect land use estimates of the EU should be included in the calculation of compliance with the sustainability criteria for greenhouse gas reductions. The EU has now reached agreement on revised renewable directives. This continues to reduce the risk of indirect land use change related to biofuels. Criteria for distinguishing biofuels with a high or low risk of indirect land use change are further worked out. Biofuels produced from food crops shall not be able to count against national targets from 2030. We also have extensive cooperation with our partners in rainforest countries on the importance of long-term and sustainable forest management. For example, in September of this year, we received news that Indonesia is introducing a moratorium on new licences for deforestation for the cultivation of oil palms and that they will have a review of existing licences for palm oil production. This implementation and compliance will contribute to the protection of natural forests in Indonesia and will contribute over time to the sustainability of the palm oil produced. The climate impact of biofuels varies from raw material. We need to set up the instruments to ensure that the biofuels used in Norway have a good and safe climate impact in a global perspective. The government is therefore committed to increasing the use of advanced biofuels from waste and residues from forestry — and increasing it in the future. The use of advanced biofuels has increased in recent years. In 2017, such biofuels accounted for one fifth of the biofuels traded. This is a result of the legislative instruments ensuring that advanced biofuels are promoted separately. We introduced a sub-requirement on advanced biofuels in 2017. The sub- requirement ensures that a certain proportion of the biofuels traded are advanced biofuels that have a good and safe climate effect and are not associated with risks of indirect land use change. The further investment in advanced biofuels depends on the availability of such biofuels in the market. The Ministry of Climate and Environment therefore commissioned our Environment Directorate to organise a recording meeting to monitor this access. At the meeting, there were both producers and traders from Norway and the rest of the world. This information will provide an important knowledge base for further work — and it is important to stress here that it is important to see whether it is possible to increase the demand for advanced biofuels from 2020 onwards. Biofuels will be particularly important in different sectors in the years to come, such as: even in aviation, where the electrification is further advanced in time. Therefore, the government announced to the government that a turnover requirement of 0,5 pst should be introduced. Advanced biofuels for aviation from 2020 onwards. The emphasis of the government on advanced biofuels both for the road sector and for aviation is built under Norwegian plans to produce advanced biofuels from forests. Norwegian production of advanced biofuels is currently limited, but there are many exciting plans for increased production in several places in the country. Based on the information we have from the industry, production could be up to 300 million. liters from 2024. The government will look forward to 2020 to the imposition of an user charge on biofuels outside the placing on the market requirement. Today, a lot of biofuels are traded outside the placing on the market requirement, as the tax exemption contributes to making biofuels cheaper than fossil fuels. The imposition of user charges will help to limit turnover beyond what is required. The Government has also asked the Directorate for Administration and ICT, Diffi, to develop guidance for contracting authorities seeking to avoid biofuels with palm oil or having deforestation effects. This work is part of Digit's ongoing work with guidance from contracting authorities and can contribute to the use of biofuels that pose risks to deforestation, e.g.: palm oil biofuels are reduced in the public sector. Finally, I also want to give consumers more information about the biofuels they buy. The Directorate-General for the Environment has been tasked with assessing the regulatory options for improving and targeting information on different types of biofuels, so that consumers can make the best possible informed choices. We have received the Environment Directorate's assessment and are now looking at how best to follow this up. We know that consumer power works, we've seen many cases of earlier. We want to give consumers the opportunity to make good consumer choices also in the case of biofuels. Finally, I would like to stress that biofuels are a contribution to achieving our emissions targets in the transport sector, but that is far from all. Together with our forward-looking policy, for example: Advanced biofuels, public transport and phase-in of zero-emission solutions will bring emissions down overall. It also states that the use of palm oil must and must be reduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-06.ana.ud441e728	I want to thank you for your answer. I guess I didn't come back with the impression that the government wants to change its policy in this area – which could result in less use of palm oil. If we believe what's being said about the deforestation of the rainforest, it's happening now. I have a bit of a problem understanding that we have a stake that makes it challenging to achieve the purchase of advanced biofuels for the actors that make it possible for us to continue with the efforts we have. The Government clearly states in its aviation requirement – which shall have a percentage requirement by 2020 – that it should be emphasised that the requirement does not require the use of biofuels from problematic raw materials, such as palm oil, in aviation. So the government is very clear that you have understood the problem. Then my question is, why has one not seen the same challenge with regard to our cars? There are different grips that can take to reduce — and possibly remove — the use of palm oil. There's probably some contradictions, and you can't get everything done problem-free, but I feel that one is sitting here and is more concerned with finding out what prevents such grips, than being a little bit more forward-looking and saying that this is what we're solving. We could suggest that advanced biofuels give an increased factor, more than the double you give today. We could have had a commitment to respond to the 2030 target – and then we forget the 2020 target – and that the tax exemption in addition to the turnover requirement lapses. Here's plenty of opportunities. I hope there's someone who's getting hold of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-06.ana.ud441e737	We're attacking this from all sides. The most important thing is that we need to reduce fossil fuel consumption in Norway. That is what we do with the efforts at collective, bicycle and footing, and also with the increase in the budget of the urban growth agreements and the rewards. The second is that we have to switch to zero emissions as quickly as possible. We're doing that by continuing to bet on zero emissions – the electric car sales are now well over 30 pst. That was 38 pst. last month – and also through the Enova initiative on heavy transport. In the case of public transport, the buses shall have zero emissions by 2025, the public transport shall be fossil-free by 2025. The most important thing is to increase the proportion of advanced biofuels, and it increases every year. Next year, it will also be increased – towards the 2020 requirement – and we will see the possibility of a faster escalation, precisely to reduce the share of conventional biofuels in the turnover requirement. Until 2020, it is also appropriate to review whether to remove the tax exemption on what is outside the placing on the market requirement. I think it's also important there to see if we're still going to keep a difference, that advanced biofuels might still have exemptions, but not the conventional ones. Another issue is whether synthetic fuels, such as Quantafuel and others, where you produce plastic fuel — a work is in progress — should have an advantage in making this change. I think it's right to do this in 2020. So let's do something now. Firstly, we are increasing – also in 2019 – the share of user charges, increasing from 10 pst. to 12 pst. And then it's the work in diffi that's to be done, so that one gets good guidance within all parts of the public. Everyone else can also use the same guidance, and I think you have a common interest in getting palm oil out of it, you don't have to wait for that. I also think it is right that the consumer should have information about the quality of the biofuels, because we know that there are different actors. Some of them do not use palm oil today, and as a pure consumer information it is important to have that knowledge. I'm sure it'll work, too. Now we don't know the numbers for the sales this year, because the final numbers, the distribution between the different products, don't come until the next spring. But we have the preliminary figures from the Tax Directorate, and so far it's sold more advanced biofuels than it was done all year last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-06.ana.ud441e750	I would like to start by thanking the representative Halleland for raising an important debate in the Stortinget today. The use of palm oil globally has doubled since 2000, and fortunately I experience that palm oil has few friends in this room. But that unfriendliness has not led to a policy as concrete as we wish it could have done. In Norway, the use of palm oil in biofuels is escalating in Norwegian cars. An estimate The Rain Forest Fund has made shows that on average 10 m 2 of rain forest is being destroyed for each diesel tank that is being filled at various filling stations using palm oil in its fuel. In addition, palm oil diesel leads to even higher greenhouse gas emissions than normal diesel both because a car running on palm oil diesel emits greenhouse gases through the exhaust pipe and because the rain forest is being destroyed to meet the increased demand for palm oil. The number is ready: last year, 659 million were sold. litres of biofuels in Norway. A total of 317 million. liters were palm oil based, and that is twice as much as in 2016. One might wonder why this happens. The answer is relatively simple: Palm oil fuel is cheaper. So Norwegian fuel operators make money on this. Therefore, it is important that we use both political power and – not least – consumer power. The working party wants stricter legislation to ensure sustainable fuels. The majority of the population has clearly informed that biofuels based on palm oil or palm oil by-products should not be used and that the change should take place as soon as possible. That message cannot and must not be misunderstood. The EU has decided to cut out palm oil-based fuel by 2030. It's too late. While we're here today, Norwegian consumers are on the road, filling up the tank with palm oil fuel. The least we can do is to oblige those stations that have palm oil in the fuel to label it even more visible with emblems and not with a small sticker at the bottom of the pump, where the consumer really only has an eye for what the fuel costs. In the end, it tempts me to say: not everyone in Norway can ride. Not everyone lives in a big city with good collective solutions. And it's actually a county in Norway that doesn't have enough coverage of charging stations. This is something both government and big business can do something about today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-06.ana.ud441e770	I think it is very good that we have this discussion today, because we have a challenge with palm oil. Biofuels are one of the most important means we have to reduce emissions in Norway. Inclusion requirements have been set to ensure that emissions continue to decline and that the production of sustainable biofuels continues to rise. The requirements make you and I – or really not me – because I don't have a car yet – can drive around with biofuels on the tank without thinking about it. To facilitate green development in that way I think is very good. The population is driving more environmentally friendly and really completely without lifting a finger to do so. At least that's something I'm connecting to good environmental policies. With biofuels in the toolbox, we get some exciting opportunities to do things that we otherwise need a little longer time to do, for example. contribute to aircraft flying a little greener, up to and including, hopefully, to zero emission solutions. We also have the opportunity to get the cars to drive much more renewablely without replacing the engine, until we find out that all the cars are emission-free. Another possibility is that we can be in the driver's seat in the development of advanced biofuels. We see that Norwegian players are on the track. They want to bet, they want to create values, they want to secure jobs, and not least they want to get emissions down. We have to play with them, so that we have the best technology and the best solutions for the future. Nevertheless, we must also be alert to the work on biofuels. We must see the opportunities that lie there, but we must not be blind to the challenges that biofuels can give. This debate is a good example of this. We're not blind. Emission reduction cannot be seen in isolation; we also need to look at the total climate impact of biofuels. This is done with the sustainability criteria that the EU has today, but we cannot be satisfied with them, even if they are a good start. In the right, we feel confident that we have a little more to go on, that we can work to make the EU even more ambitious. Forest is a valuable resource, and rain forests are rightly often highlighted as one of the most valuable things we have on our planet. We should also remember that Norwegian forest is valuable, and that regardless of the raw material used in biofuels, we have a responsibility to preserve the climate and nature of the generations that come after us. Biofuels are a good thing, given that we're doing it right, and that sustainable management of our resources is what's at stake. Not only palm oil, but also other ways of producing biofuels. This is why the Right is concerned that we are working to ensure sustainability at the general level, rather than pointing to some raw materials in particular. I would like to admit that the use of palm oil sounds bad for me too, and that as a consumer I choose it away where I can. That's why I'm happy that the Department will follow up on the Environment Directorate's assessment so that it'll make it even easier for me and others to be a conscious consumer. Nevertheless, I believe that the approach to increasing the sustainability of the product independently of the raw material is the most important thing. It's only when we see the industry as a whole, and that's when we see biofuels as a whole. In 2009, that government removed the tax exemption for biofuels. It caused some of the developments that would help us today to stop. I'm concerned that we're not stopping now, but that we're moving further development – away from solutions that require us to sacrifice rainforest, away from solutions that make us put nature under pressure, whether it's deforestation in Norway or leaning towards soya from Brazil. The industry isn't stupid. It takes the signals, and it realizes that it's going to get stronger if it doesn't adapt to the most sustainable future, including for biofuels. We need to continue the good development of advanced biofuels, because this is where the future lies. We have to keep increasing the interference requirement, and at the same time we have to take care of our globe. It's the most important thing, and it's a prerequisite I feel that everyone in this room shares.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-06.ana.ud441e789	First, I would like to thank the representative Terje Halleland for promoting an important interplay. It also underlines the importance of the effective movement of representatives and the practical functioning of policy. The use of biofuels is an important source of reducing emissions from the transport sector. Unfortunately, too much of the biofuels traded in Norway are made from palm oil. Norway is thus helping to increase the pressure on the rainforest, while we really want to use a lot of resources to preserve the same rainforest. Palm oil in biodiesel is called a notified climate bomb because it gives a double bad effect, both because we get rain forest damage on the purchase, and because it completely destroys the biofuel bet that we agree to rely on to bring down the emissions. So the answer is that palm oil has to phase out of biofuels, and we're using our own resources. We need a strategy that focuses heavily on advanced biofuels, which requires and contributes to industrialisation based on, among other things, active use of biofuels. the forest. The centre party has previously voted in favour of a number of positive proposals that would have helped to phase palm oil out from the Norwegian biofuel market. We will continue to vote in favour of positive proposals that contribute to it. We shall also vote in favour of positive proposals to promote the production of advanced, environmentally friendly and Norwegian biofuels. Among other things, the Stortinget has previously discussed proposals to ban palm oil fuel in public procurement, but so far little or nothing has happened, and according to what we can read at the ZERO Foundation, the government sits on its own legal investigations that are kept secret. Legal investigations carried out by the ZERO Foundation show that it is not problematic to prohibit palm oil in public procurement. Now we heard that the Council of State said that he had given Divi the task of exploring the possibility, but why not take a roof and get an effective tool started? It's time for the problem to be taken seriously, and you don't just say it's complicated. Yes, it's complicated, but it's no more complicated than palm oil helping to cut down rainforests that are vital and not least crucial to achieving climate goals. Continued use of palm oil in biofuels will help to undermine Norway’s commitment to the conservation of rainforests. That's why it's such an important interpellation that comes from Terje Halleland and the Progress Party today. I hope, therefore, that we can see a more active attitude of both the Advance Party and the Government, and that, in fact, we follow up with instruments that positively contribute to the recovery of the production and use of advanced biofuels from close and renewable resources. Consumer information is important then – it is important to raise awareness of us as consumers. But as the representative Haukeland Liadal was in on earlier today, not everyone in this country can go to the bus. Not everyone in this country can use the bike 365 days a year, and we will depend on a private car to keep on both social and geographical levelling measures in the future too – if we mean anything about living in people throughout the country, and that we are going to use the resources where they are. That's why we depend on us not saying either – or, but saying both – and, and doing so in a sustainable way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-06.ana.ud441e806	Thank you, Mr Halleland, for having a very important debate. The government likes to brag about the greenhouse gas snipers, but what they do is the rainforest. The reduced greenhouse gas emissions that the government boasts are dimmed in palm oil and rainforest destruction. The government's climate policy is short and well served in palm oil. On 24 May 2017, a unanimous Committee on Energy and the Environment said: ‘The establishment of oil palm plantations is currently the greatest threat to the rainforest in South-East Asia, especially in Indonesia and Malaysia.’» Therefore, the Stortinget also took a number of decisions to discard palm oil out of the Norwegian fuel market, including a decision to ensure palm oil-free purchases in the public sector. This was adopted by the votes of SV, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Environment Party of the Greens. For over a year we have been waiting for the government to introduce the ban on the purchase of palm oil in the public sector. Hordaland County has done that. And when the City Council in Bergen is going to get rid of fossil energy, they're not going to replace it with palm oil. The city council of the Left in Bergen, Julie Andersland, has been clear and clear. She said to Bergen's Official Journal on October 23rd this year: ‘Palm oil is definitely not an alternative. Then you solve a climate problem by creating a new one." The government claims that they are not allowed to impose a ban on palm oil in public procurement. But in the legal report commissioned by the government by the lawyer firm Thommess, the following is stated: ‘The conclusion of the investigation is that a palm oil ban could be lawful under the EEA Agreement, the WTO legislation on public acquisitions and the relevant EFTA trade agreements and the investment agreements with Norway, as long as the State can demonstrate with sufficient weight that the production of palm oil biofuels results in higher greenhouse gas emissions than other biofuels.’;» [[GPA Agreement]] It is therefore lawful to prohibit the public from purchasing palm oil for as long as it can be demonstrated that it results in greater greenhouse gas emissions than other types of biofuels. Those who want to search find a number of reports that provide a scientific basis to show that palm oil produces higher emissions than other types of biofuels. The government doesn't have to go that far either. They can only go to the Environment Directorate, which has confirmed that palm oil also produces higher emissions than fossil diesel – contrary to what the government has sometimes actually claimed. Instead of following the Storting decision, the Government will require consumers themselves to take responsibility and avoid palm oil. Politicians have abdicated when they ask consumers to take responsibility and solve the problems for them. I think it's simply the will the government has hurt in this matter. I want to challenge the government and those who are now going to form the majority of the budget with the government, on three points: Extract palm oil from public procurement, as decided by the Storting before the summer of last year. Pending the implementation of this Decision, please notify that palm oil is not purchased through the letters of assignment that you are now sitting and writing to the public authorities. Provide a separate charge in the revised national budget excluding high deforestation risk biofuels. Then we will be able to ensure that we have a biofuels in Norway that actually provide climate benefits and that do not destroy the rainforest. Norwegian climate policy should not be remembered for setting fire to the rainforest, but for implementing necessary and real emissions cuts. We're going to cut the emissions – not the rainforest.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-06.ana.ud441e848	I would also like to thank Mr Halleland, who is raising an important debate on two challenges in climate and environmental policy: we are going to preserve the rainforest, and we are going to cut emissions in transport. So it's important to look at the possibilities we're facing in the next few years to get to this. A small turn within the EU, which has set itself the target of having 10 pst. renewable fuels by 2020 and 14 pst. renewable by 2030: they have a target of 0,2 pst. of that proportion shall be advanced biofuels by 2022, and by 2030 it shall be up to 3,5 pst. It is with respect to report quite far away to meet the enormous challenges we face to meet the 2030 Paris Agreement. Now we've got a report that says we're even more busy than that. The EU also states that biofuels that can lead to land use change should be frozen at 2019 levels and phased out by 2030. So one recognizes at least the challenge we have. Last week we had Nordic Council, and there were many Nordic friends visiting here in Stortinget. Denmark has now adopted a ban on diesel cars from 2030. It also means that individual countries recognise the challenge of fossil fuel. In the Nordic region, we have a little bit of different measures of interference. Norway has adopted 20 pst. by 2020, Denmark 8 p.m. by 2020, Finland 20 pst. by 2020, while Sweden differs from a type of CO 2 reduction obligation – they will cut emissions of CO 2 and have not set a specific target, but converted to interference it is approximately. 22 pst. This means at least that three out of four of the largest Nordic countries have quite similar ambitions about interference. That's a good starting point, and it's actually in the North some of the solution lies, because it's the volume of advanced biofuels that needs to rise. The north is absolutely in the driver’s seat – we are sitting in the driver’s seat and driving forward the conversion that is taking place. So we have more ambitious goals than the EU has, more ambitious goals than the other parts of the world have, and among the countries, Norway is the country that has done the most in the field of electric car racing, with cars being electrified. That means that there is a need for large volumes of biofuels to do the conversion and the cuts in the emissions from transport that we are totally dependent on. Another similarity between the Nordic countries is that all count advanced biofuels double. We're fairly harmonised, but we're talking too little, we have to harmonise more, and a market of 25 million is far larger than a market in Norway of 5 million. And then we have to get out of the breath that the representative Lars Haltbrecken just wants to talk about, that we bathe in palm oil in Norway. We are also the only country that cuts emissions in the transport sector. We know that biofuels work when it comes to cutting. And then we have the wrong content -- that's absolutely right. The palm oil is going out, it's just about the time we get it out. One of the best solutions is to produce more advanced biofuels in the Nordic countries. We're in a fantastic position to both produce the fuel we need, and create green jobs together. There is also a consequence of changes in the red-green user charge and of the fact that investments in Norwegian biofuel production were stopped in 2009. So we're kind of in trouble because of a misguided policy that's ten years old. This shows that there are challenges over time. We have to have a long-term perspective, and we have to have the other Nordic countries on the team. There are great production opportunities ahead of us in our neighbouring countries and in Norway, here and now. It takes a few years to get these investments up and get the technology that we need. And in terms of predictability, it is particularly important that we work together in the Nordic countries, both to harmonise transport and emissions policies and to harmonise investments and to reduce the risk of investing in the biofuels we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-06.ana.ud441e868	Then someone's been in for walks and bikes. We're going to go bike more, but then the representative Hege Haukeland Liadal is also going to remember that there are two counties in Norway that don't have an airport. Hedmark and Uppland become the Inland. We're getting bigger than Finnmark then. So it's also about taking that perspective into this debate. Not everyone can take a plane, so yes, we all depend on a car in our big districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-06.ana.ud441e871	This matter should have been obvious. Everyone seems to agree, whether you are dependent on a car or bicycle. Palm oil from razed rainforest should never have been on the fuel market. It is climate hostile, it eradicates species, it expels indigenous people, and it is also in danger of disposing of more advanced biofuels because prices do not reflect the price it actually has for the world. Putting this on your mind is so reasonable that it sounds like fiction. But Gert Nygårdshaug has already written a novel about this – or almost. In the award-winning book Mengele Zoo we follow Mino from he is nine years old and he is a butterfly prisoner. He lives in the rainforest, but the family and the village are wiped out after large oil spills are found and an American company begins to eat of the forest and drive out the indigenous population. Unfortunately, this story is far too close to the truth. We, the Greens, are very pleased that climate policy has politicians who set themselves bold goals and who work hard for them. I should also like to commend the Council of State for that. But it is also important to admit errors if you see that you are on the wrong course. The introduction of a high turnover requirement would be a good idea if the biofuels were derived from waste, sewage and other resources. But when the blended biofuel eats up the rainforest, there's been a mistake. It is easy to understand that this is the result of difficult negotiations with parties that are not interested in environmental taxes, but it is equally a mistake. The 1.5-degree report from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change showed us that we are even more busy than we thought. It also showed us that avoiding 2 degrees of heating compared to 1.5 degrees of heating is even more important than we thought. Half the difference will mean that hundreds of millions less will be exposed to poverty, that fewer will die of heat, that the decline in food production and fish stocks will decrease, and that half as many will have problems with access to clean water. On the same day as this UN report came, we were presented with the draft state budget, and the Minister of Finance stood on this platform that day and boasted of the marginal decline in emissions in Norway, at 1.7 p.m., which we know is mainly due to increased use of biofuels – it says on the government’s own websites – of which about half comes from palm oil. We know that palm oil-based biofuels lead to higher global greenhouse gas emissions than fossil diesel. This has also been confirmed by the Environment Directorate. The effect of increased demand for palm oil in Norway in 2017 corresponds in the worst case to the destruction of 220 km2 of rainforest, corresponding to half of Oslo’s area. Palm oil is an environmental hosting. Nordics don't want it – not in their food and not on the thought. It is a great paradox that Norway, on the one hand, is paying billions to preserve the rainforest, and on the other hand, a policy that is going so hard on it is leading to climate change in Norway. Already in 2016, the Greens warned against the consequences of increasing the inclusion requirement before we know that we have biomass available that does not increase emissions or breed valuable nature. We proposed in Stortinget to ensure that the biofuels used were sustainable. The parties to the Government voted against. They also voted against the proposal we made in 2017 to impose a palm oil levy on the state budget in 2018. The UN 1.5-degree report also showed us that we have a window now. We can prevent catastrophic changes to life on the globe if we dare to invite people to take the grips that are needed, but we don't have time to make mistakes and then don't fix them. If the measure of 20 pst. mixing is not achieved without palm oil, the only right thing to do is to phase in the incorporation requirement more gradually. The Council of State should know that if he ends palm oil in fuel through a ban, or by imposing a tax on biofuels with a high deforestation risk and by imposing high demands on public acquisitions, we, the Greens, shall be the first to rejoice, and I will not even say, What were we saying? Finally, I read that the book Mengele Zoo is a television series. If the Council of State puts an end to rainforest enemy palm oil on the Norwegian market, I invite him and the rest of the energy and environmental committee to celebrate it by seeing it together, preferably in the cinema here in the house.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-06.ana.ud441e893	I would also like to thank you for a good debate. I feel that there is a broad consensus on the goal, and then there should be absolute opportunity to take a priority home to the government. There are great ambitions to meet Norway’s climate obligations. It's tempting to ask if we have a commitment to biofuels that are too big. If we say the same thing about the electric car and ask questions about whether we pay too much on the electric car, the consequence is that we have to pay a few more dollars for it. Palm oil and biofuels take the rainforest now, and that is a much higher price. We've spent 23.5 billion. kr – and above – in the last 10 years. We should then assess whether there are measures that can be implemented. We must not leave ambitions and symbols in the way of results. Three to four years in advance, the market has changed, Norwegian business is on the job. The climate will be much better, it will be much better for Norwegian business and for Norwegian economy. Then one in such a bet will also get the most people with it. We have a lot of possibilities. As I mentioned earlier, the government can suggest that one increases the factor beyond the double one has for advanced biofuels today. We can relate to the 2030 target and have a different phase in such a way that we forget the 2020 target, or the fee waiver in addition to the turnover requirement lapses. After Elvesuen answered me, I got a more positive impression that there are many measures and several assessments that the government will also look at. I know it's a big bet, but I don't think bike and times solve this problem. I would also say to the representative from the left who thought that he was without a plane, that I from Haugaland am without a train, but I am prevented from cycling and walking for that reason. There are many measures against this. The deforestation is happening now, I expect there are measures coming from the government that prevent it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-06.ana.ud441e910	I would first like to say that the Norwegian biofuel investment reduces emissions. It decreases by 1.6 million tonnes in Norway. If we count by production, it's going to decrease by 1.2 million tons. But then there is the risk of indirect land use there, and that risk is real. There is no doubt that it exists and that consumption is involved in driving a deforestation. But how large it is is not as easy to say – exactly what a tank leads to, or these numbers. The figures we use, from the renewable directive to the EU, provide the overall reduction in emissions of Norwegian biofuels – 330,000 tonnes – which is only an estimate. But what's important is we're going to bring down the consumption of palm oil. It is correct what was taken up by the representative Haltbrecken, who referred to the Thommes report. I do not repeat the whole, but refer to where it is spoken of as ‘it could be lawful for as long as the State can demonstrate with sufficient weight that the production of biofuels based on palm oil leads to greater greenhouse gas emissions than other types of biofuels’. [[...]] That is when you have a regulation on public acquisitions. The problem is that for the palm oil used, they can be shown to follow the sustainability criteria. The wearer follows the sustainability criteria. It's the one uncertainty that's there. The second is that the EU has a common value for indirect land use for all vegetable oils, i.e. palm oil, but also for soya and rapeseed. We already know that if we introduce a regulation, we will be challenged. It must then be weighed against the fact that even if you have a regulation prohibiting public acquisitions, it gives only a limited effect. Then we go to the code we have, that is, to give a guide. I am definitely because Julie Andersland and Bergen do not use palm oil in what they are going to acquire. All others in the public sector can also implement policies where they do not acquire palm oil. We're going to make a guide to help with that. But the big picture is that we need to get more advanced biofuels. Biofuels in the future will also need to be used in a number of areas – currently in heavy transport, in aeroplanes and in other areas. In the policy we are in now, we need to move forward to bring down fossil fuel consumption and get up the advanced, in a progress where we're going to bring down emissions. I feel that this is a debate in which everyone agrees on the purpose. There is a different point of view on the instruments, but the use of palm oil has to be reduced in any case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-06.ana.ud441e923	The interaction debate was closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-06.ana.ud441e1014	This means that today's maps are ready. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
