ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e39	The Stortinget received on Monday a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Jan Tore Sanner, Ketil Solvik-Olsen and Jon Georg Dale will meet for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative of Rigmor Aasrud.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e48	For the Workers' Party, school, care for the elderly, kindergartens, good health care and child protection are one of the most important things we can spend the community's money on. Giving our kids safe breeding conditions, giving the elderly a decent old age, and taking care of those who need it the most, is the most important thing. However, in order for the municipalities to do so, money is needed for, among other things. teachers, nurses and nursery assistants. Therefore, the Workers' Party has prioritised more money to the municipalities than the government every year since Jan Tore Sanner became the municipal minister. In addition to the appropriations provided in this room, municipalities have the opportunity to raise their own income by deciding locally to introduce property taxes. For the vast majority of local politicians, there is no easy decision. Introducing property taxes is basically something you do because you need the money, not to become popular, but in many places it is necessary. For many, the alternative to property taxes is to cut schoolwork, care for the elderly, or child protection. Now the government has proposed first to cut the so-called machine tax and now to property taxes on dwellings and leisure properties. This means that the government believes that the municipalities should be able to cut between 1 and 1.5 billion. kr. Then my question is to the Minister of State: Will the government ensure that these revenues are compensated for by the municipalities that lose them?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e55	Let me first say that I agree with the representative of Aasrud that the municipalities have a crucial responsibility for large, important welfare tasks. They are responsible for the most vulnerable among us, and they are responsible for knowledge. Therefore, the municipalities must be guaranteed a good financial framework, and the government has done so over the previous four years. If you look at the results of the municipalities, you have to go back to the 1990s to find similar good economic results. There have never been so few municipalities on the ROBEK list, and it is of course because the government has provided a good financial framework for the municipalities, that the municipalities themselves have run good financial management, provided more efficiency and worked smarter, and that there has been a good tax growth for the municipalities. Municipalities can do a good job themselves to secure a good financial framework. It is absolutely right that municipalities can choose to introduce property taxes. There are quite a number of municipalities that have done. It's a local political question. But municipalities can also work smarter, more efficiently, make sure they move money from administration to better services. It is the Stortinget that sets out the limits for the property tax in the municipalities. The government and the Storting have made some changes in recent years by reducing the amount of tax on property, and also removing the property tax on machinery. The proposal now on the Jeløya platform means that we will put a ceiling of 0.5 instead of 0.7. This is because the government believes that property taxes can be unsocial and that there must be limits to the amount of taxes on people's homes and leisure property.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e64	I hear here that the government is not adding to compensate for an income loss of up to 1.5 billion. NOK for Norwegian municipalities and now you have a municipal scheme that the next two years are going to go to zero. Porsground municipality is a municipality that is hit by both cuts. They'll lose about 50 million. kr. At the same time, they are one of the most effective municipalities in the country, according to the measurement methods that Sanner has now put in place. The rapporteur in Porsgrund is quite clear: cut 50 million. kr in the municipal budget for Porsgrund will mean worse services. Then I have to ask the Council of State Sanner: is that the way the municipalities now have to go when you lose so much income? When you are among the most efficient municipalities in the country and at the same time will lose 50 million. kr in income, can the Council of State guarantee that the provision of services in the municipalities concerned is not affected?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e73	I notice that the representative Aasrud is in the classic tax trap of the Workers' Party, that politics is about taxing people and business as much as possible, and then distributing the money again. With all due respect, there is a room for action for municipalities in terms of both property taxes and not least in terms of efficiency, to operate more effectively. We have also made it visible that the municipalities can do so. I do not know where the representative Aasrud has it from that the reduction that the government has outlined will be 1.5 billion. kr. According to my numbers, a decrease from 0.7 pst. to 0.5 pst. total, for all municipalities, of 350 million. kr. The framework we have given to municipalities over the last four years has helped to ensure that municipalities have more room for action and more space for action than they had when the Workers' Party ruled Norway. So this is manageable. We also say on the platform that account must be taken of the fact that the loss of income does not become too large for each municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e80	It opens up for follow-up questions – first from the representative Jorodd Asphjell.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e85	It is clear that we have a municipal minister who believes that municipalities in Norway operate very inefficiently, and that municipalities have great opportunities to streamline the operation of the administration of all the welfare services provided by municipalities. Only in Trondheim means a reduction in tax revenue of only 1.05 per million is a loss for Trondheim Municipality of over 100 million. kr. Will the municipal minister say to the municipality that the operation can be made more efficient without reducing the supply within kindergarten, school and health for the elderly?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e90	There are very many municipalities in Norway that manage without property taxes. Oslo City managed without property taxes until the Workers' Party took over the management of the city. Oslo Municipality has had Norway's best school, is well advanced in many areas, so yes, it is possible. The state can make it more efficient, and we do. Counties and municipalities can make it more efficient, and they do. Private business must also operate more efficiently. That's the way it is. When oil revenue goes down, it's not that it can only be spent on more money. Then we also have to work smarter. And we are clear in the platform that changes should not lead to too many differences for municipalities from one year to the next. We will also continue to provide a good framework for the municipalities, because the municipalities have such a crucial responsibility for many of the most important welfare areas in the welfare community.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e95	Heidi Greni – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e100	The government proposal will remove approx. 400 million. kr of the income of municipalities, shows the calculations made by KS. This comes at the top of the waste of machine taxes; it comes at the top of heavily reduced transfers to small and medium-sized municipalities. Reduced revenues provide reduced services. Schools, care for the elderly, child protection and kindergartens will have a reduced budget when there is less income for municipalities. It is not the case that property taxes are introduced to employ more advisers or not to think efficiently. The measures taken by municipalities to streamline efficiency do not stand back from what is being carried out in the country. Right-steered Kristiansand loses $40 million. kr in income. Centerpart-steered Haram is afraid it is now their turn to have to introduce property taxes, because they were coerced together with Ålesund and other municipalities. 86 pst. property taxes have been introduced by municipalities. It has become a necessary part of the funding. Here are three options: property taxes, state transfers or school closures. Does the Council agree that school students, the elderly and the kindergartens will pay the bill when the government is now restricting the ability of municipalities to earn income?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e108	I am sincerely surprised that this question comes from the Central Party. I thought the bourgeois government had an ally in the Center Party regarding respect for property rights. Is it so that the Centre Party has suddenly become a party that is attracted by more property taxes? I have perceived the Center Party, at least locally, as a party occupied by the inhabitants, who are engaged in business. But here, there are questions raised as if the only rescue for Kommune-Norway is to increase the property tax. I am concerned that we should have good schools, good kindergartens, good care for the elderly – that we should lift the most vulnerable among us. That is why the government has provided a good financial framework for four years, and we will continue to do so. Of course, municipalities have to work smarter, make operations more efficient, as does the state and the private sector. But the fact that it's the Center Party that is all of a sudden eager for more property taxes really surprises me.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e115	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e120	There have never been so many municipalities that have had to collect property taxes as after this government took over. That's one of the reasons many of them now get their budgets to jump. No one's taking property taxes for fun. I have also registered that there are now plans to make changes to the property tax, so that a roof is set for them with huge dwellings or large cottage palaces, while nothing is done at the bottom, for example. to ensure a deduction for those who have a normal, small dwelling or small apartment. I'm recording that the Right wants a debate on ownership, but there's probably as much ownership for the person who has a small dwelling and a small income. So why does the Right select to screen those that have the most, and not those that have the least, when the property tax is going to change?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e125	It is the Storting that sets out the limits of the property tax. For the current year, Stortinget has decided to start the first year with a max. 0,1 per mill and not 0,2 per mille. That means that there will be a more prudent introduction of property tax. It has become possible to exempt leisure homes from property taxes and machine taxes have also been removed. It is important for value creation and jobs in Norway. It is the municipalities themselves who decide whether to have property tax at all, and in the case of the amount of the deduction. Nor is it the case that the property tax is a tax related to income. You can sit in a big house, which you might have inherited, and you can have low income. As a result, many – and many experience – property taxes as unsocial.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e130	Torhild Bransdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e135	In the recently published Jeløya statement, local democracy and the decentralization of power are very fine, which I am very pleased to see, because it provides a lot of opportunities. I want us to look at the issue of property tax as a fundamental question. What confidence does the Council of State have in local politicians being able to manage local taxation in a good way with the confidence of central politicians? Is the Council of State confident that local politicians can make this assessment? And finally, it is important that there are local forms of taxation that local politicians can rely on. Is the property tax such a form of tax, or does the Council of State consider other forms of taxation in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e140	There is a question of principle that is raised, which income possibilities it should be. I'm not happy with property taxes, but I think it's a local tax that local democracy should decide. But it's the Storting that sets limits for this: should it be 0.5 or 0.7, and how can it be phased in? It's a question for which the Storting sets the framework. But within the framework that we draw up, local democracy is going to decide this. Otherwise, I am very pleased with what the representative says initially about the new platform of the blue-green government, namely that we will continue to work to decentralize power, to move power, to the municipalities and to the regional level. There I look forward to good cooperation with the Christian People's Party in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e147	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e152	My question goes to the Minister of Agriculture. Predictability and predictable framework conditions are words with which the government often argues when talking about industrial policy. It does not apply to the agricultural industry. We have a government platform where the so-called commercial liberals now enter to impose a ban on food. So one of them is going to put down a profitable diet in Norway, and one of them is going to put down fur nutrition. The size has had a broad process around fur nutrition, with public distribution, bigmouthing, hearing and debate, and countries one year ago, with the support of the Right and Advance Party, that one would have a viable development for fur nutrition, and that one would tighten up the demands for animal welfare. Norwegian fur nutrition should have the best animal welfare in the world. Now we have a flipped down on this. So now one will put down an industry that benefits hundreds of millions in export incomes, which employs a few hundred families in Norway, and which is an important district industry. The centre party has said that the three parties get the worst in each other. This thing shows it. That frameworks the countryside, and it affects Norwegian agriculture – it is in the spirit of the Progress Party. It's symbol politics that hurt people, but it doesn't work – it's in the spirit of the Left. And so the Right people are still going to be allowed to buy their fur lockers in confiscated shops around the country, for the marketing of this product is going to be fully legal in Norway. So my question is, what has made the Progress Party now in favour of a ban on nutrition, and that the Minister of Agriculture, the Progress Party and the Right in one year has changed its meaning in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e167	When we presented the message of fur animals – the government that consisted of the Right and the Advance Party – we proposed a robust development, but based on the order from Stortinget, we also cleared out the possibilities for a controlled closure of fur animal nutrition. We concluded otherwise. Then there's been a choice in the meantime, and we've now established a new government with the Left, where this is one of the penetrations left has received. However, this means that we should provide this industry with the necessary far-reaching framework, but in a different phase than it has been in the past. It has been our battle around fur nutrition for very many years. It has not been my primary starting point to want to wind up this industry, but when we are going to do so, it is important, both for the Right, the Progress Party and the Left, that they are both given a prudent framework through a necessary period of closure set at seven years, and that we promise the industry that we will now be going through a mechanism to compensate for the financial burdens they will suffer until the liquidation takes place – and we have said that this work will take place as quickly as possible, so that it will provide for good conditions in a time that is required. Fur nutrition has been controversial. Many of those who have been raised for fur nutrition have, after all, also seen the question mark as to whether a person has sufficiently taken the seriousness of the political orders that have been made. Now it is my job to ensure that the implementation of the controlled winding-up takes place in such a way that the fur farmers feel that the government is in line with what has been signaled in the platform, and we should do it in such a way that the loading of the fur farmers, who have to wind up by 2025, is as little as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e176	Pels is an item that is being translated internationally. The decline in nutrition in Norway means that production will take place in other countries with poorer animal welfare requirements. This has a cost. It is often said that there will be limited economic space in the years to come. We have to save. In such a situation, a large amount of money should be used to reduce the cost of feeding animals to countries with poorer animal welfare requirements. NILF has estimated a cost – I believe it was in 2014 – of 7.45 billion. kr. That's what this government wants to use the economic space for the future. My question to the Minister of Agriculture is – I guess he can give an answer: What kind of cost estimate has one made with the decision that one is for now?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e184	It's almost a pleasure to right that the Center Party is concerned that we're spending too little money in the agricultural sector. That's the first time I've experienced it. But we've made assessments of this. It is also in the pet message where we have assessed controlled liquidation. There is a report, so if the leader of the nutrition committee has read it, he sees that Menon Economics has gone through this and said that the cost is estimated to be between 300 and 500 million. kr with a liquidation period of three to five years. There are numbers that are some years old, and that there is a need to update. However, we have a relatively good overview of the economic impact of this decision – based on the figures contained in the fur notification. As a result, one must also look at how it will turn off when a longer period of closure is chosen, which will make it more conservative for the fur-farmers who are about to leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e191	Marit Knutsdatter Strand – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e196	This calculation that was made, and that we saw in November 2014, showed that it would be a cost of a total of 7.5 billion. Norwegian Krone to have a controlled closure of the fur animal nutrition and to compensate for the conversion. When the Council of State stands here today and guarantees this compensation, my question is brief and good: I am now thinking about the Progress Party and the Minister of Agriculture using the taxpayers' money and taking off the funds we have for, among other things. road and elderly care, to cover this bill?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e201	It would be an advantage if the supplementary question took over the answers I have given to the previous questions. It's easy that I don't assume 7.5 billion. the amount of the sum of kr-appropriation. I've shown you the figures that Menon Economics has given with a liquidation period of three to five years. I've said that the sum probably goes down if a well a longer liquidation period, which we've now signaled. We're going to make an up-to-date estimate of this, and we're going to set up compensation schemes for the fur farmers who have to wind up, so that they don't suffer unnecessary loads as a result of this decision. We've committed ourselves to that through this platform, and we're going to deliver on it. But it would be nice for everyone if the Center Party were a little sober when presenting numbers, so that they don't blow up the expectations of the fur farmers, who now initially have difficult days when they see that they're going to have to change the framework significantly. So I'm going to be clear, and we're going to follow this up as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e208	Terje Aasland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e213	I'm probably one of those who's now happy that the Minister of Agriculture will actually be in favour of a managed closure of the fur industry. This is a position the Labour Party has had for several years. But what's the main question here is whether it's going to be a conversion or a closure. We know that many of those who are involved in fur animals today are engaged in marginal farming, where fur animals are, we're going to say, a by-product of regular food production. If the fur animal population disappears, it will be a very demanding situation. Through our decisions, on the part of the Workers' Party, we are very clear that we need to transform the industry and strengthen the basis on which each farm is based, so that one ensures that one continues to develop food production on the farms that currently feed fur animals. I could imagine how the Council of State thinks he's actually going to make a transition and not a closure, and then especially related to the more marginal uses around the district of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e218	This clears up the government platform already. It says that, in addition to establishing a compensation scheme, we should consider whether other measures should be implemented in order to facilitate the conversion to other agricultural production of the producers for which it is relevant. It has not been stated that everyone, as the representative of Aasland says, is entitled to maintain some of these producers in traditionally economically poor areas where the potential for alternative agricultural production may be less. This also means that we in the government platform say that we should engage in dialogue with municipalities where this may be the case, and where a strong framework becomes, to look at other possibilities to deal with this in a good way. We don't all have answers to this in detail today, but we're going to work as fast as possible to get these solutions and present them to the Stortinget, both through a bill to have a controlled closure of fur nutrition and by coming back with compensation schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e223	Arne Nävra – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e228	It is a well-known case that the Centre Party and SV have stood in opposition to the Advance Party and the Government on many agricultural issues. But in the case of animals with fur on, animals with hair on, we in SV quite disagree with our partners in the Center Party. We want the reef out of the cages, and then we want some wolf in the wild, and the center part will the opposite. So today I welcome the Council of State of the Advancement Party in the case of fur animals. What's my question is, When does the Council of State see that the proposal comes to the Stortinget? Do you have some sort of progress plan, so that we can prepare for that debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e235	I'm not sure if it's within parliamentary terms and practices, but I think I can view this as a pretty damp embrace if it applies to all animals with hair on. If there is an agricultural understanding in SV, that only the fur animals are wearing hair, we will have significant challenges in these agricultural discussions in the future! [[Muntering in the Chamber.]] We're going to work on this as quickly as possible, with a view to ensuring that the fur farmers are cleared as quickly as possible. This means that we both want to work with legislative proposals, we want to work with the compensation scheme, and we want to discuss with the parties in the agricultural settlement for 2019 how to best extend the transition period until the liquidation at the end of 2024. I am set to work as quickly as possible. Someone's closer to schedule because it's not ready.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e240	Steinar Reitan – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e246	The councils are from Volda, and he has a good knowledge of the world-class fur environment, which through generations has provided the basis for housing and industrial activities in the small community of Eyes in the neighbouring municipality of Ørsta. In the middle of Hjørundfjord, the mountain sides go largely straight down into the fjord, and it is very economical with arable soil that is not already in use. Two years ago, I was delighted to visit skilled businessmen in that fur environment, along with representatives from the Mure bench. We visited fur farms where everything was well maintained, with good animal welfare, which was also confirmed by the Food Safety Authority. Yesterday, one of the fur farms that was hosting us stood out at the NRK More and Romesdal. He called it a disaster for their village that the blue-green government is now going to wind up the fur industry. With its knowledge of business life and topography in the innermost part of Hjørundfjord, does the Council of State see that it is possible to convert into a new business that can replace the income from the fur industry in Eye?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e253	I visited the fur farmers on the Eye last year. There is no doubt that there are good people who are concerned about animal welfare, and so we had a different starting point than what is now the conclusion. I'm going to do my part to make sure that we can get a conversion that they're also coming out of. But if there's anything that healthy babies can do, it's changing. So if there's any fur farmers I'm not worried about -- or at least worried about, at least -- it's those who live in a fjord with big, new possibilities. Hjørundfjorden is the new Geirangerfjord on Sunnmøre. The connection to tourism is great, the growth around the hotel is formidable, there are a huge number of angry people who are able to find new legs to stand on – and we're going to do what we can to facilitate the transition.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e258	Per Espen Stoknes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e263	I would like to congratulate the Council of State on a new government statement. I would also like to congratulate myself on the agreement to wind up fur farming, although this is not the policy of the Progress Party. In the view of the Greens, settlement will have a major and positive impact on animal welfare in Norway, but the importance will be even greater if we simultaneously prohibit imports of products from fur farming. A ban in Norway will legally open the possibility of imposing a ban on imports of similar products from fur production, often produced with poor — perhaps even worse — animal welfare elsewhere. So our question is, will the Council of State investigate and use this opportunity?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e270	The answer to that is no. I don't think it's possible to close Norwegian imported fur borders. When it applies to the production of fur animals we have in Norway, it is initially approx. 99 pst. calculated on the export market. It is always assumed that we should not be able to translate fur into Norwegian stores, but to check all the suitcases for people who enter Norway, to see if there can be a fur up, would in practice be unwise and inappropriate. Therefore, it is not an option.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e275	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e280	My question goes to the Council of State Sanner. No government has had so much money to go with like this, and the government has been very fussy about taxes to those with big fortunes. At the same time, there are many who are struggling with income and with their bout poisons. In the last five to six years, there have been 16 000 fewer people receiving housing support in Norway. At the same time, the boute fees have increased by NOK 18 000 and the average income of those receiving housing support has fallen by NOK 7 000 – according to the House Bank. Yes, they even say that housing support rules are now such that minimum pensioners are considered a high-income group. SV believes that the housing support needs to be greatly increased. It's necessary, because the government has also let go of regulating the spending limits for many years. The government says that families with children will get more. The budget for next year announces that fewer will receive. That families of children have more is good, but when the government is going to target housing more, one has to ask: Who is going to get less? Targeting the housing support more, as the government warns in the government statement, must mean that there is someone who is getting today, who will no longer get it. So now we spend less money on housing support than we did six or seven or eight years ago. What is it that the government believes will no longer receive housing support, as it is today?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e291	I agree with what Andersen says about housing support, that it may be – no, I would say it is – our main housing social tool. This is the background to the fact that, over the previous four-year period, we have improved housing support. It has improved by now ensuring that housing aid is regulated according to price developments in the housing market. It was subjugated over many years. We have corrected the errors that SV made in the government. We've made sure that housing support has improved for families with children, that housing can be supported even if you live in a book collection, and we've made sure that housing support is based on last month's income and not on what you earned two years ago. It's targeting. It's making the housing better. Then we now warn in the government statement that we will make housing support even better for families with children. That doesn't mean that others are going to get less. We believe that housing support is the most important housing social instrument. For four years now, we have been lifting the residential social area so that today there are far fewer homeless people. It was 6,000 homeless. Now it's 4,000. Our goal is that there should not be anyone who needs to be homeless in Norway. We will continue to help more people go from renting a dwelling to owning a dwelling. It's a great value that most people have the opportunity to own their own homes, and we're going to continue to make sure that people have a safe and good place to live through different housing arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e298	It can only be inside the head of a government council from the Right it is possible to think that the housing support has improved, when there are fewer who get, and when those who get are covered a much smaller part of their boute poison than before. In the next year's budget, the housing support has been cut, so the housing support has not improved, it has become worse. And then there's reason to ask, "Better for who?" I guess it's gotten better for the Treasury, because we're paying a lot less in housing now than we did before. But I miss that the Council of State can now explain why the richest of us need tax havens for their big palace, while ordinary people, pensioners and disabled people won't get housing support – why it's a more important thing for the Right to give tax credits to those who can afford large cottage palaces, and no more housing support for those who just need a normal dwelling.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e305	I fully acknowledge Andersen's strong social policy commitment. But it's not like there are no minimum pensioners sitting in a big house paying property taxes. In fact, there are quite a number of low incomes who have to pay a high property tax and who experience it as unsocial. There was an SV in the government that failed to ensure that housing support was adapted to the under-privileged reform. Government SV did not contribute to the regulation of housing aid according to price developments but was sub-delegated. We've fixed this up. I believe that there is still a need to improve housing support, so that those who have the most needs get it as well. That's why we're raising children's families in the Jeleya platform. And of course, there's room for also discussing other changes. We want to provide a good housing support for those who need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e314	Follow-up questions are raised – first Kari Elisabeth Kaski.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e320	It's impossible to see that there's a red thread going through the government platform. A gives relief that benefits most those with the highest wealth, while at the same time the contractions hit those who have the least. The housing stock is an example of this. It now goes to fewer than before, despite an increased need, and the government has not corrected the lag. And the platform announces further tightening, or "targeting", as we hear that the right-hand side calls it. Then the Council of State will have us believe that the property tax in Norway, which goes to greater well-being for everyone, is unsocial. Because there is certainly no connection between a large and expensive house, inheritance and how much money you have. I wonder – it is a claim that needs to be made more thoroughly by the Council of State. However, the question is whether the Council of State sees that it is fundamentally unfair — and probably also feels so — that property taxes are reduced most for those who have the most, while at the same time reducing housing support for those who have the least.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e327	It's obvious that you can read the Jeleia statement differently. I have been sitting with the Left and the Advance Party discussing how we can lift vulnerable groups, how we can help families with low incomes, how we can get to a inclusion rate so that several of those with disabilities or holes in the CV can get into the working life, and how we can pursue a better integration policy. That's the questions we've been discussing on Jelaua, and that's the questions we're raising on the platform. So we can disagree about property taxes. I believe that there is a local question that has to be decided locally, but we believe that the Storting has to set a limit on how high it should be, because the property tax may be unsocial to many individuals. As far as housing support is concerned, we have made sure that it becomes more targeted, and targeting means that those who need it get it, and I think that's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e334	Siri Gassemyr Staalese – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e339	In the new platform, it is very nice that the government aims to have ‘a society with small differences’. It also states that the government wants to achieve a ‘targeted response to poverty’. Here they also say that they want to ‘enhance housing social work’. My question is, how poor does a family of children have to be in order to receive housing support, and does the government see itself as increasing the framework for housing support and thus strengthening housing social work?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e346	The housing aid is the most important housing social measure and is too many crucial to have a safe and good place to live. That is why, as I have also explained in previous answers, we have made sure that housing support has improved by no longer getting housing support measured against the income you had two years ago, but against the income you have today, and by the fact that the families of children also get better. And we want to strengthen housing for families with children also in the years to come. We're going to be proud to live in a society of small differences. It is a value that does not belong to the left or right side; it is a Norwegian value. The fact that there is a short distance between voters and politicians, that there are not too many differences, is important in our society. The Government Declaration has many good measures that will help us to lift vulnerable groups and allow more people to come to work and live on their own income.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e353	Willfred Nordlund – to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e358	The number of beneficiaries of housing aid is decreasing. I record the government's commitment to housing-social work, but when you hear the answers to the questions here, you can wonder if you're in the same world. At least I have to say that neither the undersigned, the Leaseboerforeningen nor the Poor Network Norway share the opinion of the Council of State that the housing aid scheme has become more targeted and thus better targeted. There's not necessarily any context here – that if you target, a system gets better. This could also mean limiting the possibility of more people getting, because you want to reduce costs. That was to the extent that others referred to earlier here. My questions are: Does the Council of State believe that there are increasing numbers of low incomes who lose the right to housing support, and will he look at the possibility of correcting the imbalances that occurred when we introduced the underprivileged reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e365	I believe that we need an open mind in order to make various improvements in housing support. It is a reality that housing support has been subjugated over many years. It caused fewer people to get. This has been corrected by the fact that housing aid is now adapted to the development of the housing market. It is an important system improvement that makes housing support follow developments and that makes it possible to meet those who need it. The fact that the housing support was previously measured against income that could be one–two years old meant that many people had to pay back housing because they had too much. We have made some system changes that I believe make housing support better. Then we're going to discuss with Stortinget, with our cooperation party the Christian People's Party, what changes we're going to make, and we've raised the children's families, especially in the Yelau Declaration.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e370	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e375	My question goes to the Minister of Agriculture and Food. Since the presentation of the new government platform, there has been a lot of attention on different issues, and in the agricultural chapter there has been the closure of the fur animal industry that has received the most attention. But of course, I have read the platform carefully, and notice that the government will have liberalisation of the concession law, investigated the consequences of abolishing the odel law and the fundamental law protection of the odels, pooling agricultural legislation into fewer laws and abolishing the concession obligation and the obligation to reside in forest properties. The platform was not well received by the agricultural trade unions, and it must also be said to be well known that the Christian People's Party and the government have disagreed on many and many aspects of liberalisation in the agricultural sector in the previous period. What I think many people are asking about now is what kind of agricultural policy a new, enlarged government will lead forward. So my question to the Council of State is: is this government statement to be read as if liberalisation were the main instrument of the government's agricultural policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e386	The size is going to see a good agricultural policy, as it has been in the period we've been behind, which has allowed us to increase the value creation from the forest, develop infrastructure that has made it possible to chop more, and facilitate good agricultural development. But this government is also going to be busy with private ownership, and I also thought that the Christian People's Party was. I think that's why we're going to find good solutions in the future. The size has shown, as late as June, and in a further note in December, that there may still be a need for amendments to the concession law, for example: to ensure that people who currently run agricultural estates are more capable of owning their property. There is a work going on which the government will decide, but as a principle clears up, and where one looks at such changes in the platform. At the same time, you can't experience putting down a law selection to collect agricultural legislation in fewer laws as a threat. On the contrary, very much of the legislation we have in the agricultural sector is quite old and adapts to a completely different operating structure than we have today. For example, beitelova and gadelova, which have not been adjusted since the 1960s, are open laws that there is a need to look at. One of the things that is demanding in agriculture is to have an overview of all the places that are regulated. It would be appropriate, without going into the substance of the proposals, to bring this together in fewer laws than today, which would make it more transparent. This government is going to pursue a careful agricultural policy that will facilitate the use of our land resources to produce more food. That's why it seems to me that food production in Norway is bigger than ever, that the income growth of farmers in the last four years has been twice as high as that of other groups, that more and more people are investing, that many young people are looking at agriculture to create their new work there. So we're going to have this in common.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e400	In the answer, the Council of State is concerned with income growth for the farmers. The platform of the new extended government determines that the goal is to get the most of the farmer's income from the market, while the platform also says that the government should work to build down customs barriers. The specific cost level makes customs barriers a necessity to maintain opportunities for obtaining revenue from the market. At the same time, we know that in many agricultural products there is already little real customs protection left. Do the Council of State agree that it is challenging to bring revenue into the market if customs protection is reduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e409	Yes, it is, and that's why we have to work systematically to take care of both the development of costs in Norwegian agriculture and strengthen our competitiveness. In very many areas, we have the highest level of customs protection that we can have in accordance with international obligations, and also where we lose competitiveness if we constantly focus on customs protection rather than on how we strengthen our own competitiveness against imported goods. However, this government platform says above all that we should have reciprocal tariff reductions through trade agreements or bilateral agreements where appropriate for Norway. It's absolutely crucial for an industrial politician, almost whatever a party represents in the Stortinget, that we take care of Norwegian interests. Trade is entirely fundamental to Norway. Without trade in the world around us, agriculture would also have had too little resources to produce what we produce today. That is why we need to be able to balance this in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e416	It opens for follow-up questions – first Olaug V. Bollestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e421	In the budget of the Business Committee just before Christmas, a majority indicate that the Turnover Council has been given a mandate to review the market balance in agriculture. It is natural that the role and funding model of the Information Office should be included in this work. My question to the Council of State is: Has the government concluded in advance with regard to the investigation now taking place? It says on the platform that it will eliminate the possibility of using the turnover tax for the generic marketing of agricultural products.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e428	I will make sure that the size has been ordered. I have not concluded anything until it is finished. But what the government platform is clarifying is a fundamental resistance to the Norwegian farmers, for example. beef producers in Norway today pay a turnover tax to increase the generic marketing of beef that we have to import from abroad. Norwegian cattle farmers pay for the advertising of imported beef, while they think they themselves have too low income. One must sometimes have the ability to prioritize, and I do. Therefore, I have been honest with agriculture that if one thinks that generic marketing is important, I do not need to regulate the possibility of operating with it. But that the state, through the Ministry of Agriculture, is going to charge each farmer a certain rate of tax to advertise imported products, I am uncertain whether the Norwegian farmer is on fire.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e435	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e440	We have received a government platform to promote liberalisation, which points to the weight of customs protection, etc. But it also says that one should base itself on what the four parties were about in the agricultural report that was discussed in spring 2017. Since the message was processed in spring 2017, only one big thing has happened, and that is that the Right, the Progress Party and the Left have lost their majority in Stortinget. We're talking about advocacy conditions for business. Then is my question to the Council of State, which I hope he can answer yes: does the Minister of Agriculture feel obliged and bound by the attitude of this agricultural message, which is a clear direction for agricultural policy over the next few years? Will he base her on agricultural policy in the years to come, or will he freely shop between and take rematches where it suits him?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e449	The suggestion that the Council of State has not intended to follow up on the decision of the Storing at all times is not a basis for this. On the contrary, we say in this government platform that we will base the main lines of agricultural policy on the understanding behind the four non-socialist parties. The parties still have multiples. I realize that it is broken for the Centre Party to sit in opposition. I'm very happy that they're going to continue with it for four more years, because it'll provide the basis for growth and employment in the districts in the future, as well, it provides the basis for income growth for the farmers, which means that the agricultural area can still be maintained in claim, it can cause fewer farmers to decline than when the Senter party last ruled. So I'm absolutely sure that the four parties that went to make sure that Erna Solberg was still Prime Minister will manage that responsibility in a way that will keep us delivering good agricultural policy for years to come. And fortunately, in many ways it will affect the ability of the Center Party to stand firm in all the old solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e456	Nils Kristen Sandtrøen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e461	The Progress Party, Left and Right alerts to cut the Community's contribution to Norwegian food production by saying that the farmer's income should now be taken out of the market as far as possible, while maintaining a wise and sensible policy for stable prices. This will be particularly severe in terms of smaller and medium-sized use, of course because there is no possibility of producing such a large volume. We are deeply concerned about the opportunities for local business and, not least, the opportunities to produce food for small and medium-sized uses around our country where they depend on a scattered soil resource between fjords and mountains. We therefore wonder: Is this in practice a message from Jelaua that small and medium-sized uses should leave Norwegian agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e470	This is an extremely unlikely approach. Norwegian farmers are proud that they bring most of their income into the market. The peasant layer constantly boasted of that 70 pst. the income of Norwegian farmers is not taken into account in the State budget but in the market. The requirement for Norwegian farmers to succeed, not only in producing larger volumes, but more often, is that they target the market and see what opportunities the market offers both for product development and for increased ignition. The fact that the market is to be the peasant’s worst enemy is a very unlikely approach from the Labour Party – and fortunately an approach the Labour Party has never had once ruled. The Norwegian pawn does not have a chance if he is not on the market. And the Norwegian consumer is the Norwegian farmer's best friend, who buys Norwegian in most cases, as Norwegian product, and who wants to have agriculture throughout the country. Setting up a distinction between the consumer and the producer, as the Labour Party is trying to do here, is a very unlikely approach, which I hope the Storting hasn't thought to take.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e480	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e485	My question is to the Minister of Transport. Norway is a country with a lot of weather, and in the last few days there have been a lot of snowstorms in many places. Every year the same happens when the snow comes: foreign car combinations get stuck or run off the road and create major traffic problems. Today, the newspapers are full of reports of trucks — most of them foreign — that were stuck yesterday. Here I have today's look up in the magazine of Rome as an example. Here the East Police District says that only in the police district yesterday was 18 car trains stuck, and the police confirm that the vast majority of them are foreign. At my discretion, this is an increasing problem on Norwegian winter roads. There is more control, and there is a lot, yes – but obviously not enough. There are more and more foreign trucks — many of them unspoiled and equipped for Norwegian winter conditions at all. My question to the Minister for Transport is quite simply: why do the authorities allow this to happen, and why are these dangerous vehicles not stopped at the border before they travel around Norway and create major problems?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e496	It is a question that I asked myself many times when I was in opposition, and that is why this was one of the first things we seized when we came into government. We went in and tightened up the code, which means that where the Workers' Party government required winter tyres only on front wheels, we have demanded winter tyres on all wheels on a vehicle train. We have greatly increased control activities. When we travel around and talk to the controllers in the Road Administration now, they confirm that the number of unsolicited foreign vehicle combinations has fallen sharply because the rules are tightened. The means to stop the vehicle and to keep it under lockdown has now been introduced. In addition, there are several checks on the fact that the vehicle is chained. We are also actively working against our international friends to get a mutual rule in the driver's license that one should have winter competence to drive on the roads. It's a little longer canvas to bleach. It is important that we have an international driving licence code that allows Norwegian drivers to drive easily abroad, just as foreigners should be able to drive in Norway. But we have not given up that work, and a few weeks ago at the latest, one of my State Secretarys met a European colleague to discuss, among other things. this and the cabotage code. In addition, we have worked well against the Ministry of Justice to ensure that the police can order car combinations that drive, move, and that one cannot be allowed to sit and almost wait for the spring in the hope of avoiding the costs of it. When we also look at accident statistics and the frequency of accidents, one sees that the number of accidents involving vehicle combinations has fallen sharply in recent years. I have no research evidence to demonstrate that it has been tightened up in the legislation, increased control, etc. to do, but there's good reason to think it's happening at the same time. We also have a very good contact with the Norwegian Freight Car Association and others in the transport sector to see how we can get even more targeted controls to prevent poor handling of both Norwegian and non-resident car trains – not least the last ones – running on Norwegian roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e507	I think it certainly does a lot on the part of the authorities. This government does a lot, the previous government did a lot, but it obviously doesn't do enough. It must be stronger lye. Many of the foreign trucks do not make up for themselves in Norway. Therefore, a mandatory bombing mechanism has been established for all trucks. The problem is that it doesn't help, they don't pay their bills anyway. Therefore, it seems to be widely agreed, both in the transport industry and throughout the industry, that a system has to be set up in which money has to be paid in the bombardment before the vehicle enters Norway. That way, we can unplug some of the stanzas. Everyone says this is a good idea, but it's not yet come into force. My question is quite simply: When will it be required that money be paid on the bombers before foreign vehicles enter Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e516	Firstly, I understand that the Workers' Party wants to be part of and take credit for the policy of today's government, but it's actually that most of the improvements I've been talking about have been introduced because today's government is sitting. For eight years, we wanted many of the same things, for example. use of wheel locks, without implementation by the previous government. The working party may have a little bit of an eye for the arguments to come out, but it's still a complete fact. In the case of prepaid bombs, there's something the government wants, and we've also, through the Road Service, said that we want to have a new computer system for the toll system that allows one to include it in the system. We have also had a tender. Unfortunately, it ended up in a conflict with the supplier/manufacturer that means it has not come into force, but it is nevertheless a goal we should have. However, we have done a lot of work to ensure that the toll billing and the billing bills sent are actually paid, and we see that the payment percentage has risen sharply. Now it's about some percentage that doesn't make up separately, while there were tens of percent when we took over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e525	There will be follow-up questions – first Arild Grande.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e530	This concerns the safety of drivers and not least Norwegian drivers. I am surprised at how passive the government and the Council of State are in these matters. It refers to some proposals that have been implemented, but in general, we see that problems are increasing and spreading to more and more industries. What we have seen is that there is a picture that the opposition has been impatient in these matters and has promoted a number of proposals, but the government is voting it down. Not later than one month ago, we made proposals in Stortinget that the Labour Inspectorate and the State Road Administration should have the opportunity to require evidence that the pay and working conditions of truck and bus drivers are in line with general pay and working conditions. Why does the government feel that it is not important to check the pay and working conditions of drivers as well as to check the vehicles?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e535	I'm a little surprised by the strategy of the Workers' Party when you have so little to point to from the eight years a crash, and there's been so much happening in the last four years, and then later one that nothing has happened anyway. I listed a number of actions that today's government has initiated on its own initiative over the previous four years when the representative Myrli asked his question. In other words, much more controls have been carried out, there are stricter legislation, there are stronger instruments, and one demands more of those fines. The problem is not new, but it is being handled in a completely different and more offensive way now. It is also not right that a number of proposals from the Workers' Party have been put to the vote, but it is true that some of the proposals have been voted against, because they have come after the government has already started work. It is a little pointless for the Storting to adopt something that the government has already notified that one is working on. Cooperation between the Road Administration, the police, the Labour Inspectorate, etc. has also been strongly strengthened in recent years. I also see that Norway's Lastebileiier Association on its websites gives praise just for the better coordination that is now taking place and that was also presented in a big message not very long ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e544	Ivar Odnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e549	We must also note this year that we have had winters in Norway, with a lot of snow and weather conditions that make it challenging for those on the road. Our particular mountain crossings become bottlenecks that are often connected by weather, or by car combinations that have been stuck or have ended up outside the road. This has been discussed before, and the Minister for Transport has warned of various measures to reduce it, such as: the smooth running course for foreign drivers before they enter Norway. Arve Wangensteen in Vang Auto AS, which is after all large in car storage due to many assignments, especially on E16 through Valdres, can tell that the distribution between foreign and Norwegian companies that need car storage is about 70/30. A move that is now more common is that there are foreign drivers in Norwegian cars. However, the main challenge, as Wangenstein sees, is not the foreign drivers, but the E16 road width and road standard through Valdres – where it is said to be upgraded to 8.5 metres in width. The question is: will the Council of State now take effective action to reduce the number of accidents involving foreign drivers? And will the Council of State take up the force when it is due to the expansion of the remaining E16 through Valdres?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e558	The quality of our roads is obviously one of the issues when one talks about winter roads, not only in Valdres, but throughout the country. Therefore, today's government has increased the appropriations to build new roads heavily, and also more than doubled the appropriations to maintain the roads so that they no longer mature as they did when the Senter party crashed, but that they are actually getting better and better. The fact that you have a good roadside basis is an important part of ensuring that the bridge and so on. can function properly. With regard to the claim that almost nothing is happening in the case of foreign drivers, I just remind you that accident statistics say the opposite. I'm very happy about that. The fact that one has a marked decrease in the number of accidents — both fatal and severely damaged — where vehicle combinations are involved indicates that something is happening. I'm a little surprised that both the Labour Party and the Center Party give the opposite idea when the statistics show that it's going in the right direction. But we're not on target. That's why we're maintaining a high level of control. That is why we ensure that we continue to work with the legislation, to tighten up and ensure that the reactions are targeted and started quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e566	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e579	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this section. The changes were as follows: Question 5, from the representative Siv Mossleth to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Finance who directs him. Question 11, from the representative Per Olaf Lundtigen of the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Justice and Security, who will direct him.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e593	‘5. on December 2017, the EU economic and financial ministers adopted amendments to the VAT rules for electronic sales to consumers. Digital trading platforms are subject to this responsibility for the calculation and collection of VAT and registration in ‘One-stop-shop’. The decision provides for the exemption from VAT for consignments with a value of less than EUR 22 to be removed by 2021. Will the government propose that similar rules be applied in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e600	The EU is a tax union and therefore does not levy VAT or excise duties linked to the crossing of internal borders. Within the EU, mail order sales of goods from traders in another country are to be taxed at the rate applicable in the country where the seller is established. When importing goods from third countries, such as Norway, Member States must have a duty-free import limit of between EUR 10 and 22. Member States may, however, provide that sales in the context of mail order sales shall not be subject to the exemption. I am well aware that the Council of the European Union has unanimously adopted amendments to this legislation, with effect from 2021. These changes include, inter alia,: the exit of the free-of-charge limit for small consignments from third countries. From 2021 onwards, foreign sellers can register in a simplified registration solution and pay VAT on their mail order sales. Such products could then be introduced into the EU under a simplified border regime. This implies a simplification compared to today. The government is committed to facilitating the efficient trading of goods from abroad. The Norwegian exemption for small consignments from abroad is justified by the fact that consumers and customs authorities are not subject to unnecessary costs of such imports. At the same time, the government wants operators competing in the same market to have as much a level playing field as possible. This also applies to tax legislation. The government continuously assesses how the legislation can be improved. Most countries with a VAT system currently operate a free-of-charge limit on small consignments. The issues related to such exemptions are therefore discussed internationally, inter alia. in the OECD. Norway is taking an active part in these discussions. The adoption by the EU of amendments to its rules on small consignments from 2021 makes an important contribution to the government’s efforts to improve the regulatory environment. As I referred to in my reply to the representative, Mr Gülsvik's question to me in the Question Time on Wednesday 10 January, this government is committed to strengthening the framework conditions for business. It is the overall framework conditions that affect growth and jobs in this country. This government has reduced the total taxes and charges by more than 24 billion. kr when all proposals are fully phased in. Nearly 8.8 billion. kr is the relief of the business tax. Overall, government policies have contributed to a better framework for business, including: through tax reform and measures in the budgets of recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e615	Tonight, the Finance Committee is invited to the Council of State dinner. We still do not know for sure who is hosting, but what we know is that new fees increases are still on the government menu. One still signals an increased tax on travel, an increased charge on public transport and culture, an increase in fuel charges. One makes everyday life more difficult for people, while at the same time threatening jobs in Norway. Why does it make sense, on the basis of the Minister of Finance's assessment, that one should continue to spend billions of dollars on subsidising foreign players through the 350 SEK exemption on online commerce, while bringing ever-increasing taxes that threaten jobs in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e622	I totally disagree with the introduction to the representative Gælsvik. It is not that this government — or the new government that is in place — has the ambition to make it difficult for people or to threaten jobs, rather the opposite. It is about facilitating good framework conditions for Norwegian business, making competitiveness safe, strengthening opportunities, facilitating us to have more legs in the Norwegian economy in the transition we are about to undergo. It's also about continuing to work to reduce the overall tax burden, there's no doubt about it. Making adjustments and changes to tax legislation will have to continue, but under the heading: facilitating growth and value creation in business, safe jobs and, above all, continuing to simplify everyday life for ordinary people.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e627	When one increases the travel income – it has been increased by 50 pst, from 8 pst. to 12 p.m., in a few years, and in the government statement it signals that it will continue to do so – threatens jobs in the tourism industry in Norway. When one more smacks with a fee increase on chocolate and confectionery of over 80 pst. from one day to the next, it threatens jobs in that industry in Norway. The centre party is concerned that we should have an autonomous tax and tax policy in Norway, but that is in order to safeguard Norwegian interests, both the interests of Norwegian consumers and the interests of Norwegian business. Why is it reasonable that the person who goes to his local store – spends money shopping at the local store and contributes to jobs in Norway – should receive a tax return on chocolate and sugar products, while the person who shops online from abroad and contributes to jobs abroad should continue to receive a tax exemption? Where is the logic of that?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e636	A small clarification: not all online trade in Norway is linked to foreign trade. On the contrary, there are quite a number of companies that have gradually established themselves in Norway and are engaged in online solutions, but which are themselves a challenge to the traditional pattern of trade we know. There are many companies that find creative solutions to challenge it. That said, I think maybe it would be tricked by the representative Geelsvik to lift his eyes and look around a little bit. You get the impression that things are going very badly in this country. It's going pretty well. Travel life is a good thing. It goes well across large parts of the country. The growth is rising. The freedom goes down. Employment is increasing. Optimism is spreading from consumer teams, from business. It is a sign that the economic policy that has been – and is – run by this government is working. The centre party has made it a sport to blink out individual fees, while proposing to tighten the overall tax burden. I disagree with that approach.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e648	‘In the process of Innst. 52 S. Stortinget decided that no coercive action should be taken against municipalities to bring them together. [[2017-2018]] Can the Council of States confirm that he will respect this decision and that he will not take the initiative to re-examine the principle of volunteering?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e655	A broad majority of the Stortinget joined the main lines of the government's proposals for municipal reform in the last period. We want to take care of the Norwegian tradition with strong welfare municipalities that ensure good services where people live. In June 2017, Stortinget decided to merge 121 municipalities into 47 new municipalities. In December 2017, a majority in Stortinget rejected the opposition’s proposal on rematches in all respects. During this period, the government will continue to work on the municipal reform, in line with the agreement between the cooperation parties Right, the Progress Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party of 22 February 2017. But I can assure the representative Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum that in the same way as in the previous period, the work will of course take place within the framework of the Stortinget. I also confirmed that in the debate in Stortinget on 7 December 2017. Then I said, ‘I’m going to follow what the Storting has provided for the current period – of course.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e669	During the Rome Christmas, state councilman Jan Tore Sanner chose to give an interview where he talked about the time of the contests being over. We see in the same interview that Sanner is taking a rematch. He says he's going to use the income system as an element to stimulate community mergers. Then the Council of State Sanner should know that the Stortinget decided before Christmas not to use the income system as an element in the continuation of the municipal reform. It was adopted in the same debate that Mr Sanner referred to instead. Is it so to understand that Sanner believes that the income system should be actively used — and despite the Stortinge decision taken before Christmas?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e674	I totally disagree with the premise of the representative for violence against Vedum. It is true that we have implemented changes in the income system, but that is because the old income system was an obstacle to municipal mergers. It is clear that when a broad majority in the UK and many local central party rapporteurs want stronger municipalities, we cannot have an income system that has actually penalised many of the municipalities that have wanted to grow bigger and stronger in order to provide citizens with good services where they live. The income system adopted is more neutral than the previous one. The income system should ensure good services and the basis for good services in all municipalities, but we cannot have an income system that punishes municipalities that want to join. The income system is now in place. Of course, it will be evaluated and, of course, also considered whether adjustments should be made at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e681	Some of the strange things that happened to the income system in the previous period was the concept of ‘voluntary small’ and ‘involuntary small’ municipalities. If you start to look at how it turns out for individual municipalities, like my neighbouring municipality, Løten – which is a well-functioning, well-run municipality – they have lost huge financial resources because they are among the so-called voluntary small ones. There is no doubt that elements were included in the income system that had as its primary purpose the pressing of municipalities to join forces. What the Storting decided before Christmas was just two main principles, one being that there should not be any aggregations with coercion – against the Right's votes, but it was then a majority against the Right's line that has been where you can use coercion. And a principle was adopted that you should not use the income system as an element to force municipalities together. The government statement now states that the income system should be used as incentives and tools. Will Sanner once again promote this kind of proposal, or will Sanner take on the fact that you don't have the majority in Stortinget anymore?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e688	I will be careful to advise the representative of the Battle of Vedum. But the battle is lost. It is a fact that 119 municipalities now merge – and all of them, most of them according to good local processes and local decisions. They do it because they want to ensure good services to their inhabitants, where they live, in the years that come. That is why there will also be many mergers in the current period, because the local politicians see that this is absolutely necessary, including many from the Central Party. We're going to make sure that there's good incentives and good arrangements for those who want to go together. We can't have the income system the Senterpartiet put up with, that's to punish those who want to go together. The income system must be more neutral, and then we must make good arrangements for those who want to build stronger municipalities. It's also going to be the blue-green government in the years that are coming, and in good cooperation with the Christian People's Party and other parties in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e698	‘In Moss News on 4 January 2018 it appears that the State Road Service will once again widen to find the future route for Route 19 through Moss. Does the Council of State support the extension of the State Road Administration to that of the government's January 2015 draft elections, in order to find a future solution for Route 19 through Moss, and is such a broad approach compatible with construction start by 2024 at the latest?»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e705	I thank you for the question. I'm dedicated to helping solve the traffic challenges that are in Moss. On the one hand, there's amazing opportunities you're now seeing in that city. One wants to build a new rv. 19, so that one can relieve some of the centre areas of traffic, make sure that Jeleua and others do not experience the same traffic challenges as one has, and one is to build a new railway, not just for Moss, but throughout Eastfold. It means a much better collective offering, but the sum of these interventions is huge construction projects. We must avoid that Moss over a long period of time just becomes a single large building group. Therefore, coordination between Bane NOR and the State Road Service is very important here. Then we have come into the situation that government and big business have made decisions where a signal that this is the thing a few want to do. One has set aside money to start work on both planning and construction, but as the state road system last autumn went on to look more at how to build the solutions that one has adopted, so one that the basic conditions are far worse than one thought. So instead of being able to create a tunnel that will spare many from intervention, one would have to create a loose mass tunnel because of bad mountains. That means that we have to dig up more or less the entire distance where one could plan to build a tunnel, then create a coal host and fill up there again. Interventions in respect of houses, commercial buildings and other non-residential buildings had become enormously large. Then I think it is smart that a person goes back and makes wider assessments against the decisions that have been made. In the first round, the Vegvesenet looks at other good solutions within the concepts and decisions to which the Stortinget has signalled support. It is in order to ensure the cost framework and to ensure that a person is provided with the transport or traffic solutions that he or she has requested. But I'm not going to rule out that if the Road Administration comes to us, or even after contacting local authorities, we see that it might be necessary to go beyond the decisions that you have made, we have to assess, and be positive about it. I say it that way because we have to be sure that we are right about the decision of the Storting, so we don't here initiate actions like individual parties in the Storing, or others, would be going beyond the powers we've been given. But overall – we want to solve the transport challenges; we want to achieve the best possible coordination between road and rail. The best thing would have been if you could have done everything at the same time, but when one discovers that the assumptions of the Lord are different from that of the Lord, then there is something one cannot avoid having to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e718	I thank you for your answer. I share the view that coordinating and getting a broader assessment is important. We have a transport year here that has a high annual traffic, especially with heavy-duty cars. I am busy to what extent the Council of State sees it possible to secure both the environment and road safety in view of both road conditions and those living in Moss City, which have a close connection to the road. What measures does the Council of State see as necessary to be considered there, especially during the construction phase?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e723	Here are several time horizons that it is important to attend to. One is to have the best possible road safety in the short term for the traffic that is going there today, which has been strongly increasing because of much positive activity in Moss, and to ensure that it is not exacerbated by the fact that there is time to find out how to build the new one. Just creating a coal-host, a bulk tunnel, will be a much greater intervention and, in this way, will be worse for the environment and more difficult to ensure road safety. There are also moments that you have to bring here. Because there are so many x's and y's in play now, just because of new assumptions, at least my approach is that the Road Service is now going to do the job they've started. They shall coordinate well with Bane NOR. We're going to get involved from the Ministry of Transport to ensure that cooperation, but also to show that this is important for us to solve, even though it won't be exactly like we thought a relatively short time ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e728	It is one of the conceptual choices taken by the government, and it also contains a number of other roadside measures and measures to get more people to walk, ride bicycles and travel collectively. Will the Council of State contribute to the inclusion of the Moss-Rygge urban area in a State support system for urban capital issues, etc., so that these measures are also financed here?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e733	I don't think a reward scheme or anything. will be the right tool in terms of exactly the challenges we are facing right now. The size discussed the framework for urban growth rates, reward schemes, etc., and there are the nine largest urban areas to be covered. But the counties get considerable funding from the state over the framework, where the states can be involved and influence how one develops collective solutions. That's why I think this is best solved at local level, where one is closest to the problems and knows them. Now I have happened to be in the Moss region for a few weeks, and I'm sorry I couldn't be present in the Questionnaire last week. In some of the evening sessions or lunch breaks, I took the opportunity to cycle around on Jeløia and in Moss just to try to experience the traffic picture. Now it's not representative of what it's like the whole year or the whole day, but someone sees some places that traffic is pretty close, and I understand locally that I wanted to fix this. But the important thing for me is that a person is able to find solutions that can actually be implemented. Then the situation around the ground is one of the major factors we have to take over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e743	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘In the context of the rail reform, the Council of State has previously stated that the staff of the railway system should be treated well and in particular. not be deprived of accrued-to-date pension entitlements. Purity of trains is now being put at a competitive disadvantage. It affects more than 200 employees, most women. In practice, in the event of such a competitive outsourcing, all over 55 years lose the opportunity to dispose of the AFP. Does the Council of State consider such a deterioration in pension rights to be sustainable, and what will he do to correct this injustice?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e752	I thank you for the question and also regret to the representative Arnstad that I was prevented from attending the Questionnaire last week. Pension issues are complicated, and here are many rules of play that I think it is important that we follow. In connection with the railway reform and the general effort we have on the railways, we have had a lot of contact with the various trade unions and the different companies on the part of the government. When we have a strong commitment to rail with increased appropriations for investment and maintenance, better organisation so that a more appropriate structure and a clearer responsibility are created, and we need to compete to deliver the best possible services, it can – in such a situation – be that people feel some uncertainty about the future. It is then important to me that through the dialogue meetings and the contact points we have had, among other things. the trade-union movement has been engaged in the most orderly and predictable manner possible. So we've discussed the pension issue many times, and I've met with Norwegian Lokomotivemannsförbund, Norwegian Railway Federation, STAFO, NITO, Delta and others – among others. Taken – to hear your views and take care of them as best you can. It is therefore gratifying to note that the NSB group and trade unions agreed on how a new pension scheme should be before Christmas. It received overwhelmingly good support in a dissenting vote in the trade union movement. As far as the issue of traffic services is concerned, it is a company that was never taken up by trade unions because the companies directly affected by the railway reform, such as NSB and Bane NOR, have been their concern. Traffic service is a company owned by NSB and ISS together, i.e. a company that does not own the Ministry of Transport but is owned by both a private company and the NSB. We received a letter from Traffic Service just before Christmas, where they addressed their pension question for the first time. We have recently sent a reply to Traffic Service and referred to their owners being properly addressed for this, and I expect them to relate to the NSB administration and to the ISS. Of course, if the NSB contacts us about this, look at what work we're going to do together or what space of action the NSB has to solve this. As I said, it has been important to me that there is predictability, and that vested rights are respected. On the things we have had on our table, we find that good solutions have been found, or are good processes. The latter applies, inter alia, to: The Mantena, which has been allocated to the State budget just to facilitate this transition.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e773	The Council of State has said that he should ensure that the employees receive earned pension entitlements. Cleaners are now cleaners, they are workers on trains like everyone else and do that job, which may be characterized by both low pay and a lot of wear. It is a fact that if a company that wins the competition does not have a government pension scheme in the State pension fund, employees over 55 years of age will not be able to earn a contractual pension through a private pension scheme. It must be possible for the Council of State to answer whether he will take care of this group of elderly, tired women who have worked a long life with cleaning Norwegian trains.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e778	I have recently met with the Norwegian Railway Association in connection with the letter we received from Traffic Service, just to discuss this. The fact that you have worked a very long time does not mean that you should be considered to be tired. That they have done heroic work in their working environment, there is no doubt about it, and that is why we need to ensure that their interests are properly cared for. But I think the representative Arnstad, who has also been the Council of State in the Ministry of Transport, knows how the rules of the game are, and that the ownership of Traffic Service has not arisen as a result of the railway reform, but that the NSB and ISS have been organised in this way for a long time. Then I also think the representative knows that although I work well to get these good solutions, there are rules of play for who is responsible for which part of the functions. The NSB is the owner of Traffic Service with the ISS, and then it is not natural for a State Council to go in and override a government, which has not even asked the Ministry of Transport and the Minister of Transport for assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e783	As a former State Council, I know that the Council of State must deal with what the Council of State has said, and the Council of State has said that no one should lose pension rights on the railway reform. The cleaners of trains are part of the staff associated with this reform. The question then remains: is it possible to imagine a transitional scheme for workers from 55 years of age and up, so that they do not lose the right to a contractual pension?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e788	It is absolutely possible to envisage a transitional regime; it is absolutely possible to envisage many solutions. That's why it's natural that the NSB, which is the owner of the company, along with the ISS, which is a private company, find that solution. The representative Arnstad would like to shake his head of this, but I think if the representative Arnstad had gone into his memory, she would see that it's natural when you have a government, that it's the government that rules. It is not natural for governments to go in and take over the management of a company owned in cooperation with private individuals. I have no reason not to stand in favour of the words I have said. I mentioned in my first answer that the companies that had been directly affected by the reform, such as the NSB, have found solutions for their employees that the trade unions have accepted and that the employees have supported in a dissenting vote. To give the impression now that we're not standing by our words – there's nothing in history so far that provides the basis for that claim, even though I know that the Center Party would like them to attack the government at that point.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e798	This question, from the representative Siv Mossleth to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Finance who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e803	‘Turbus industries are characterised by considerable competition from foreign operators due to a rather free code of conduct for cabotage operations for passenger transport. In such a situation, it is very important that the raw material is the same. Even if a bus is foreign, VAT will be charged for the service production that takes place in Norway. How is this controlled today, and how will the Council of State ensure more uniform conditions of competition for this industry?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e810	Since I am responsible for VAT legislation, I am the one to answer this question. Under the VAT rules, passenger transport is subject to a charge of 12 pst. This applies regardless of whether the activity is carried out by carriers established in Norway or abroad. For cross-border transport services, there is a tax exemption for direct and continuous transport. For example, the exemption excludes a bus company offering a bus trip directly from Oslo to Gothenburg from calculating the VAT on tickets for the entire journey. Similarly, the other way would apply. The exemption does not apply to round trips and passenger transport operations where the part of the service provided in Norway is more than 24 hours. The VAT exemption for cross-border transport does not apply to cabotage operations carried out internally in Norway. The rules apply equally to both Norwegian and foreign operations, and the legislation is designed in accordance with the same principles as to major trading partners in the EU. Therefore, Norwegian establishments benefit from similar exemptions in several other countries. Under the EEA Agreement, Norway is obliged, under specified conditions, to authorise cabotage operations. Cabotage is domestic transport for consideration in a country other than where the carrier is resident. This applies only to carriers established in an EEA country. The government is actively working on cabotage issues and a level playing field. Through information to foreign operators providing services in Norway and control measures to detect illegal cabotage activities, we contribute to compliance with legislation and a level playing field in the industry. I am here pointing out that the government in the 2017 state budget gave a description of the VAT code and cabotage, on the basis of a request decision from Stortinget. It was pointed out that the Tax Administration was to be given a task to assess more targeted information measures and to implement measures that could provide better and more effective control of the transport industry. It is now being followed up. The tax office also participates in a cooperation forum with the various control settings, led by the Directorate of Roads. This targeted cooperation was launched in 2016. The government sees illegal cabotage as part of several complex labour crime challenges. This is why cabotage and other issues in the transport industry are included as part of the government’s overall work against labour-life crime. We have developed a strategy in this area that was revised in 2017. Cooperation with the social partners continues with a broad and joint effort to combat labour crime. The actions of the strategy cover different areas and will contribute to the strengthening and even more targeted response to the crime at work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e823	I talked about the driving between destinations within Norway's borders. Foreign tourist drivers may carry out such temporary cabotage operations. But the concept of temporaryity is not defined today, either by number of days or by number of trips. What will the government do to define the concept of temporaryity — what will the government do to make life easier for Norwegian transport companies, so that we can set limits when foreign tourist operators operate outside the law?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e828	The VAT legislation applies equally to both Norwegian and non-resident carriers. Violations of the VAT or cabotage legislation can, of course, provide a competitive advantage to non-regulatory actors so that they can offer services at a lower price than those in relation to Norwegian law and pay all charges. This is precisely why it is important to have targeted control measures. In 2017, the controls focused in particular on the control of the vehicle, and it is primarily about the safety of all those moving in traffic. However, it costs money to maintain and ensure that buses are in good condition for Norwegian driving conditions, and of course it also has an impact on the conditions of competition. This PCF is now working to identify the types of checks that are currently being carried out for 2018.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e833	The tourist industry says that they are plagued by too few checks — not technical checks, but other types of checks that can detect driving and rest periods, illegal diesel loading and tax law violations, as we are talking about now. Politicians from the Progress Party like to stress that the Progress Party is a party for law and order, but here there are some shortcomings in giving the Norwegian businessmen equal terms to foreign traders, who avoid the tax they actually have to pay to the Norwegian State. How can the State Council provide control stations with tools to determine whether foreign tourist companies pay VAT for the service production that takes place in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e840	I have actually responded to this in the two previous answers. Thus, operators operating in the same market have a level playing field. The problem is if you don't follow the rules. That is precisely why it is important that we carry out several checks, to which I explained quite thoroughly in my previous reply. There is therefore a cooperation forum between different control centres where the Tax Agency is also involved, and now they are working to identify what kind of controls it will be important to carry out in 2018. In any case, the point is that the best instrument we have to detect illegalities in this area is to carry out several checks – all the time the regulatory design of the actors is equal. But control is the most important tool we have, and the Minister of Transport, who has the primary responsibility for much of this, has explained it thoroughly in the Stortingen on several occasions, and I can assure you that the tax authorities are also following this up in cooperation with other control agencies.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e850	‘There is an ongoing conflict between the municipality of Health Bergen and Bergen when it concerns the development of the provision of maternity leave when the health care provider is to reduce the responsibility for the provision of maternity leave from five to two days, without this being compensated in the municipality by means. Can the Council of State respond to the cost of a day-to-day maternity leave, and what Health Bergen will annually save on cutting the responsibility with three days' sleep for women/children, and can the Council of State explain why the government does not intervene and secure its interests?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e857	Obstetrics are changing. Several women leave early after birth. This is mainly a desired development, supporting the link between the new child and the rest of the family. The Health Directorate has issued a national professional guideline on maternity care. The guideline recommends that the duration of hospitalisation be adapted to the needs of the woman and the newborn child, but does not limit the duration of maternity care to the responsibility of the specialist health service. The evaluation of the time of printing shall be carried out in consultation with the woman. Home travel requires organised maternity services at home and support from the woman’s partner or network. The interaction agreement between Health Bergen and the municipality in the mission area states that women can address the maternity department directly with questions about birth and childbirth both before birth and five days after. This limit is of no importance for bedtime but for the duration of the follow-up responsibility of the specialist health service for mother and child. The average postnatal lying time at the Haukeland Women’s Clinic is 2.8 days. It's pretty similar to the bedtime in other hospitals. By comparison, the lying time at Akershus University Hospital is 2.7 days and at Ullevål is 2.6–2.7 days. Health Bergen believes that a time limit of five days is of little use. Pregnant women who need it shall be assisted by specialist health services regardless of the number of days left after birth. A general requirement that the female clinic should be responsible for pregnant women and children during the first five days after birth does not provide the necessary flexibility in the offer according to Health Bergen. Through the cooperation project with other municipalities in the mission area, Health Bergen has contributed to raising the level of competence so that these municipalities can provide quality and continuity of maternity services more effectively than is possible in the specialist healthcare service. With regard to the funding of maternity care in municipalities, the government has strengthened the community midwife service by strengthening the health centre and the school health service. Most municipalities have all the midwives employed in the health centre. In 2017 it was granted over 1 billion. kr for this service through the free income of municipalities and earmarked grants. For 2018 it has continued 753.5 million. kr through the free revenues of municipalities for the health centre service and SEK 287.2 million. kr of the earmarked grant. That's a total of $1.04. kr. The budgetary agreement between the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left granted an additional 100 million. kr to the service above the municipal framework and 20 million. kr in earmarked grants for midwifery in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e876	I record that the Council of State does not answer the question, which Health Bergen actually saves on giving birth responsibility to the municipalities. There are many things in this case that the Council of State will not go into. The average time of lay today is 2.8 days, but the point is that Health Bergen is building a new hospital building where the women's clinic is going in, where they operate with a number of rooms that require 40 pst. of the midwives to return home between six and eight hours after birth, where today there is an average of more than 2.5 days. That's what worries the municipality of Bergen, that's what worries me, because you've gone to a completely different rate of output than today, without the municipalities getting extra funds to deal with the provision of maternity services in the municipalities. What is referred to by the strengthening of the health centre has gone most to the health centre itself and little to midwives. Does the Council of State have an explanation of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e883	The provision of birth and maternity services at the Haukeland Women’s Clinic is constantly developing. Until the move into the new children’s and youth clinic in 2023, the hospital will test different models to follow up women at home. Dialogue and interaction with municipalities on overall maternity care will therefore remain important. The content of the service in the new childhood and youth hospital will be developed in close dialogue with users, trust-elected and protection ombudsmen. The aim is to provide maternity services that are in line with national professional guidelines, which ensure quality and patient safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e888	I have to say, I'm surprised at the answer. I found it a pity that the Council of State would not go into the problem that is in Bergen. It concerns a lot of people. The supply that comes can be developed in close cooperation with midwives and the municipality, etc. But when the number of rooms that are built is 40 pst. without overnight in a hospital, lay the great limit on how the provision of maternity can be adapted to women in the future. In the case of the municipality, the Council of State should be more determined to ensure that a large part of what is currently the responsibility of the health care provider is now transferred to the municipalities without being given funds. Will the Council of State provide funds to the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e895	Since 2014, Health Bergen has had a project, Earthmother in the home, where healthy women with normal births have been offered early repatriation with follow-up from midwife at the women's clinic. It was clear from the outset that this would be an offer in a transitional phase until the municipality of Bergen had built up its own maternity offer. The women's clinic has proposed the cooperation project to help develop maternity care in the municipality of Bergen. There are good experiences from the type of projects in other municipalities, such as Ashøy, Os, Fjell, Sund and Eyegarden. However, the municipality of Bergen did not want to participate in the project. Women in need will be able to contact the women’s clinic directly after being outsourced, possibly also for appointment with the outpatient clinic. The municipality of Bergen also has a responsibility to carry out its mission in this area. I believe that the good solutions are primarily local, but of course it also depends on both parties wanting to cooperate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e903	«Injury, pain and discomfort in the oral cavity are to a small extent covered by the fear of the people. If you have oral cancer, the cancer will be irradiated, but the damaged spasms and subsequent plagues will not help you. Seabed syndrome gives dry mouth and dry eyes. You'll get help with dry eyes, but your mouth won't help you. Coin has become a hole in the welfare state. Either you have to live with the pain, or you have to pay for everything yourself. Differences are now increasing in Norway, and not everyone can afford them.’ We in SV believe that you should not get sick by being poor, and you should not become poor... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e910	The representative must deal with the question he has sent.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e915	‘Do the Council of State wish to include oral health in the system of partial participation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e920	The representative addresses an important theme. A number of diseases and treatment of diseases with irradiation or use of medicinal products provide dry mouth. Dry mouth increases the risk of tooth holes, which also cause severe pain, discomfort and damage. For many years there has been a social welfare scheme for dental treatment by mouth dryness. In the case of pain, discomfort and damage to mucous membranes, throat and other parts of the mouth, this is covered from 1 January 2018 by a new regulation on the bladder prescription system. Doctors may now apply to Helfo for individual benefit for medical treatment in the event of serious diseases, including severe oral dryness and severe oral discomfort due to this. The application applies to the individual patient and will be assessed in the same way as for other medicinal products based on the severity of the condition, the benefits of the treatment and the use of resources. Many products are used as salivating agents for oral dryness and are not medicinal products. It won't be an opening to provide benefit to this according to the prescription.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e929	Thank you for the answer – and then I must also congratulate the Council of States that he is likely to be allowed to continue, if we are to believe in rumors. However, I would like to tell the story to one of several people who have contacted me this year, when the Minister of Health claims that the legislation is so much better. There's one who says, "Yes, I'll call myself hit." I got 30 radiations and 6 cell poison cures in the autumn of 2015 after the surgeon had removed the left half of the lower jaw. I applied to Helfo for the right to receive saliva replacement on a blue prescription because of dry mouth, but was refused. This is one of very many who have made contact with me, and who must live with great pain in the mouth. Mouth dryness may sound a little bit, but when everything you eat becomes sand paper, it's very serious. I was wondering if the Council of State could provide some medical reason for dry eyes to be covered by the fear of the people, while the dry mouth should only exceptionally lead to your getting help.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e938	As I said in my previous answer, this is not about dry mouth or dry eyes, but about one having the opportunity to get individual social benefits for medications, also related to severe oral dryness, and it will then be assessed by Helfo on the basis of the criteria that are. Then, of course, I have no opportunity to go in and make an assessment of each patient or of a single story in such a context.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e943	But the whole problem here is that the individual application is not good enough. There's a big hole in the welfare state. When I, as just one representative, get an incredible number of enquiries, and we see in the media about more and more people with great pain in their mouths and big problems with oral health because it's not part of popular fear, I think it actually doesn't hold that the Council of State is now saying that there are some individual arrangements. SV proposed to the state budget to start a phase of dental health into the self-proclaim scheme, so no one would have to pay more than NOK 2 500 to go to the dentist. It will cost approx. 10 B.C.E. kr, i.e. well under half of the money today’s government has spent on tax cuts in Norway. Does the Minister of Health really think that people's dental health is worth less than half of the tax cuts to, among other things. the richest in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e950	The challenge with SV's proposal is that there are a number of parties that at different times have meant the same thing, but it has never happened. One of the main explanations I think is that SV here is trying to put in place a scheme that will essentially protect people with relatively good finances and low dental expenses. What is government policy, which is also part of the Jeløya platform, is that we should continue to develop and improve the dental coverage system, but then continuously improve it in areas with people with poor health and poor finances. The gradual improvement is the development we have followed over the four years that have passed and that we will continue to do. I think it's realistic to now, because I think, just like the representative, that here's the area where there's holes, but I think it's better step by step to close those holes than taking SV's model, which is essentially going to spend a lot of money on people who have relatively low expenses.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e958	I would like to ask the Minister of Health: ‘After several years of discussions on capacity and local hospital needs in the Oslo area, it was finally decided last year that a new local hospital should be built in the Aker hospital area. This is an important step, but the estimated population growth in the decades to come suggests that the next steps must also be planned. Therefore, plans for a new local hospital are discussed in addition to Aker. At the same time, Oslo offers university hospitals to shut down Ullevål Hospital and sell the plot to finance expansion at Gaustad. Does the Council agree that there may be grounds to consider whether the forthcoming new hospital could be a development of suitable parts of Ullevål?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e967	Future target for Oslo University Hospital was adopted in June 2016. It involves a complete regional hospital in Gaustad, an acute hospital in Aker and a specialised cancer hospital in the Radium Hospital. The future dimension and plans for the development of Aker and Gaustad will be important steps to address the capacity challenges in Oslo. Health South-East has suggested that Aker hospitals and the extension of Gaustad should be developed step by step and in parallel. Step-by-step developments will allow for a gradual increase in treatment capacity in Oslo, as the population base changes. The Diakonhemmet Hospital and Lovisenberg Diakonale Hospital are an integral part of the specialist healthcare service in Oslo. The hospitals have an agreement with Health South-East and are currently responsible for local health care for six parts of the city. Health South-East is concerned that the Diakon home and Lovisenberg should be an important part of the solution to the future capacity needs of the capital area. Health South-East has suggested that further work should be done on the division of tasks in Oslo, so that new tasks can be transferred to the Diakon home and Lovisenberg. The two hospitals will then take care of a greater proportion of their own patient base in addition to the growth of the population in their own areas of uptake. Both hospitals are currently lacking offers to the people for whom they are responsible and for which it would be natural that hospitals of this size have. Increased responsibility for its own population and the growth of its population represent a significant increase in activity and tasks for both these hospitals. Overall, four hospitals should therefore be developed in Oslo: Aker, Gaustad, Diakon home and Lovisenberg. In addition, the cancer hospital is located in the existing Radium Hospital. The groundwork for the first stage of the development of Aker and Gaustad is under way. Prediction of population growth and capacity needs up to 2035 is part of the planning process. Health South-East has informed that they are planning to apply for loans for the projects in the State budget for 2020, and the first stages of construction can then be carried out between 2021 and 2027. I'm not familiar with when they're going to start the next construction stage, but I'm assuming that Health South-East is assessing this against population growth and capacity needs. The future target for the development of hospitals in Oslo is set. The work is in progress. It involves large, complex expansions, precisely to cope with population growth over the next ten years. I think we now need to focus on realising these plans.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e980	I thank the Council of State for a thorough answer. I attended a discussion meeting with the Oslo Medical Association last night, which was very well visited, and it was a great commitment. It was documented here, by those working on this subject, that, in addition to the 2020–2030s, local hospital capacity will be lacking in the Oslo area of about 50 %. one and a half times the new Aker now being built. We also have a very expensive lesson from the process around Aker Hospital, which was adopted and which was an interaction arena, and which is now to be rebuilt. In my opinion, this was a ten-year lost time in terms of heavy, very demanding processes, which caused many resources to be used unnecessarily. So my question to the Council of State is: Isn't the Council of State not concerned that history can repeat itself, that we are now starting a heavy process – a lot of discussions about putting down Ullevål, which is now in this target image – and then in ten years finds out that parts of it could actually be a functioning local hospital?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e991	I believe that it was important to set a target for the development of Oslo University Hospital, and I also felt that the representative Bøhler was one of those who rejoiced on the June day of 2016. I don't know the calculations that Bohemia now refers to, but if there are employees at Oslo University Hospital who want to contribute to this process, it's the right place to take it with those who are now working on the projects for the development of Oslo University Hospital and Health South-East. I feel that there is a broad consensus that it is important that the Diakon home Hospital Hospital and the Lovisenberg Diakonale Hospital should continue to be a local hospital in the Oslo area. We see today that they have a low self-coverage in some important, central areas, which it is quite natural that hospitals of that size have an offer – while also having opportunities for development. So this has to be seen in a context, and I expect Health South-East and Oslo University Hospitals to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e1000	I also thank you for the additional reply. It's important that we don't let history repeat itself. Two of the lessons learned from the Aker process and how much it has cost us in many ways is that you exaggerate what you can achieve by selling hospital areas that the government will need in the future. One was to finance the expansion of the OUS by selling the Aker property, and it turned out that it was very far from what was in a possible sales sum. We see the same thing in Ullevål now: it has been analysed that there are large costs associated with clearing the grounds there, and the Riksantikvar will protect parts of the area, but nevertheless it is planned to finance part of that expansion in the sale of Ullevål. So I want to ask the Council of State: the experience of this and the experience that the analyses of the needs that have been built on have proved to be unrealistic in lying time, in population growth, and in the elderly with complex disorders. Will the Council of State take a thorough round in the light of those experiences?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e1009	I expect Health South-East and Oslo University Hospitals to always bring with them experiences from previous planning processes. So it's true that even if you can say afterwards that a decision at the time was wrong, it's not certain that all future decisions will also be wrong. Here one has to make a concrete assessment, and I believe that it is Health South-East and Oslo University Hospital that have the best conditions to do so. But it is also important now to stick to the target picture that is, which means that we are going to build a large emergency hospital on Aker. There will also be a need to have emergency hospital functions related to Gaustad, and the development of Lovisenberg Hospital and the Diakon home of Diakonale Hospital. But here we have a model where you're talking about a step-by-step development, and that means that all along the way has opportunities to evaluate the needs along the way, while one goes step-by-step. There was also some of what the government was concerned about and wanted with the future target picture, so that one does not lock up to one major hospital in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e1021	‘In the class struggle on 8 January, former vocational training director Erling Steen refers to the right of all young people to three to four years of secondary education, but that ‘the applicants for letters of practice are at risk of being fed by two years’. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the letter of practice does not become a two-year blindway, and that the right of the training law to secondary education for young people will apply in practice to all pupils, not only to students taking more theoretical education?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e1028	The government has put in place a system of letters of practice in all states. It's not an independent searchable system, but it's still a law-enforced offer that's closer to work, more practical, less theory. It is simply an offer for some of the students who may not — in fact — have the opportunity to complete secondary education, simply because high school is too theoretical for some, and that the drop-out thus becomes large. So there's a lot of work we have to do with the professional commons by making vocational training more relevant to the working life, but I don't have time to do it all over again. The representative of Moxnes is concerned that the practical letter should become a blindway. Then it is important to remember that a very important reason why we introduced the scheme – and as far as I remember, it was a total accumulation that in its time stood behind it, right before the party Red came in – was that it had been tried out in several states and had very good results. 70 pst. of those who participated, had either got a job or continued to study in the company. A final report was received from the evaluation of the trial scheme in 2011 and it notes that, without the practical letter scheme, many participants would probably fall completely off, and implementation is considered ‘surprisingly good’. The evaluation also shows that the majority continued to progress towards a diploma and learn after two years with practical letters. I allow myself to quote from the summary of the final report, where the researchers conclude: ‘The experiment must thus be considered to have contributed to a much lower drop-out rate and to a better implementation of vocational training for those who have taken part than would have been expected had they been in the ordinary course of secondary education. In addition, emphasis needs to be placed on the candidates’ own good targets for this way of conducting higher education. It is also very important that many have increased their ambitions during the trial period. Proportion of candidates with full degree letters as objectives have increased over the project period.’ I have to say that the only thing that is possible to undo in this case is that we have so far introduced it as a statutory offer in all counties, but we have not said anything about how many places you should have. I believe that something should not be abolished from the practical letter system that we have put in place – it is a very good, very sensible system for the students concerned – but it should be expanded so that more people actually get the opportunity to do some kind of higher education, and that most people eventually get a letter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e1042	The last one is very important. Alternative governments have both wanted to expand and also to legislate in part on the offer of letters of practice in all states, but what is limited is how many students actually get into the scheme. We know that many states have a very stressed economy, and that practice letters cost more money than just having students on the school bench, because of course they're going to have apprentice pay. We are therefore afraid that a number of states, in order to save money, do not take up the offer of practical letters to a large enough extent, because then they are able to save costs at the other end. This is the question of whether the Minister will consider contributing either earmarked government funds to the practical letter system or other financial measures to ensure that more actually receive offers of letters of practice in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e1051	Yes, we consider that on an ongoing basis – simply. It is quite right, as the representative of Moxnes says, that because we have not legalised how many people will have the opportunity to take practical letters, or in what programmes or directions – we have just said that all states will have an offer to do so – there may be great differences from state to state. It is also important to say that in advance of this scheme we had good discussions with both the employer's side and the employee's side, because we were also concerned that this should not compete with the professional letter or become a kind of letter 'light' with a lowered standard. But we got to a solution that I think is very good, and that we should definitely consider expanding. Then I perceive that from the original question, which I may have thought was a bit critical, the representative Moxnes has now become very positive to the practice letter system and wants to expand it in several states and pay for it. That's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e1058	The government recently showed record numbers in apprenticeship places, but still more than one out of four in professional subjects do not receive apprenticeship space. In Eastfold stands a total of 40 pst. no room for today. It is possible that the council has a chair with its name in the chair at the Castle later today, but 8 000 students in Norwegian school have not got the place they should – no matter how fast they run, there are too few chairs for them. Then the government will demand the public to take in apprentices, and that's Red, of course. But it doesn't look like the right to think that the public solves everything. The student organisation says that it is essential that private companies include more apprentices. What does the Council of State think of a spice layer according to the Danish model, where all private and public enterprises pay contributions proportionally, but only those who take in apprentices get money back from the pot?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e1065	It's very good that we have record scores that get apprentice space. And then it's very good that there's a record high share that gets apprenticeship space. But me and this government are not going to be satisfied until everyone gets the apprenticeship. What's good is the measures we've taken – we've increased the apprenticeship grant, we've introduced a trade mark scheme for apprentices, we've introduced an apprenticeship guarantee – which for some reason you haven't been able to implement before – that says that public demand for apprentices when they buy, we've put in place a state apprenticeship scheme, that is, a state apprenticeship plan, for the first time, also incredibly strange that it hasn't been done before. Together with the work done by the parties, it has been very effective. With regard to the specific question of the Danish scheme: In my spare time, I am active in the Right Party, and I have managed the Right Programme Committee. One of the proposals in the Right Programme Committee is to try such a scheme. The Danish system is very exciting. In Norway, for example, Both the employer and the employee sides of the building have been positive to try it out, and it could be a place to start.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e1076	It was nice that the Minister for Fisheries found time in the calendar to answer the following questions: ‘The Minister of Fisheries is aware of promises of growth in the farming industry and the corresponding payment to the host municipalities. The reality is that there has been little growth in recent years. Can growth be promised in 2018, and how has the Council of State intended to comply with the promises given?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e1085	It is true that there has not been any particular increase in production in recent years, but let me begin by saying a few words about the interaction between the granting of authorisation for farming and the actual production of farmed fish. It is the authorities that determine the production capacity of the Norwegian breeding industry. The production capacity is allocated in the form of maximum authorised biomass indicating a certain number of tonnes of fish that each breeder is authorised to keep at sea at a given time. In isolation, this does not say anything about how much fish is produced. It is for economic operators to use the allocated production capacity by producing fish as efficiently as possible in the way that economic operators consider to be as profitable as possible. Administrations allocate growth in production capacity but not growth in production as such. Therefore neither I nor Pollestad can guarantee without further delay growth in the production of farmed fish, either in 2018 or beyond. However, there is a link between production capacity and actual production, and I can say a few words about the government's plans for the allocation of production capacity and what it means for growth in the production of farmed fish. The allocation of production capacity has been done historically in the light of many reasons, but this government – and I know that the representative Pollestad is well aware of this – has introduced a new capacity adjustment system. On 15 October 2017, this system entered into force. The system implies that the coast is divided into production areas and that the production capacity in the industry is adjusted accordingly. At the end of October, the first capacity assessment was carried out with the new system, which means that there is already an offer out, of 2 pst. growth in green areas on existing biomass. Later this year, further growth will be offered through the auctioning principle, i.e. new permits. We've already offered two psts. the growth of established actors in these areas and new offers will be made later. The answer to the question to the representative Pollestad is that we have already followed up our promises by adding an offer for increased capacity in place. We have also followed up the promises by increasing the capacity offer later this year through the auctioning principle – in line with what the Stortinget has asked the government to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e1100	I wonder when I listened to the answer, but I was happy when the Council of State came to the fact that there is a certain connection between the production capacity and the actual production, or the production possibilities. Growth opportunities are important for the industry, but also for the host municipalities, there is considerable tension as to whether one will accept this growth, whether one will be able to see it, and what income it will give, which will be distributed among the municipalities. One is not so persistent when one is out as a representative from the Right and the Advance Party and talks about how much money the municipalities will get in 2018. Secretary of State Roy Angelvik promised to check the money of the times to the municipalities. For example, Hitra, Frøya and Snillfjord were to receive 118 million. in 2018 from the Maritime Fund. Then my question to the Council of State is: will the Council of State also tell these three municipalities that they will receive $118 million? kr in 2018?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e1109	I have to repeat again: whether or not the offer of increased production capacity is used, no one can guarantee it, it is primarily for the industry, based on the price that has been fixed. And whether this leads to increased production – as I said in my first answer – is entirely up to the industry now. But I already register, linked to the first offer of 2 pst. growth on existing biomass, there are many players who have already purchased increased capacity. This money is pure money that goes into the Marine Fund. That is why I can guarantee here that there will be payments from the Swedish Maritime Fund in 2018. But how much depends on how much of the capacity offered there is now being purchased. But if all capacity offers are purchased, there will be substantial funds on the Maritime Fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e1114	I think it would have been a good idea if both the State Councils, the State Secretarys and the State representatives from the Right and the Progress Party were just as moderate when they're out talking to the media about what's going to happen, which we belong to the Council of State is here today, which takes them away from me when it's presented later. It is such that the growth of the farming industry and the potential for growth will also be affected by the framework conditions for debt. We have now received a new government platform, which mentions the aquaculture industry, and one of the points where the new government will ‘set strict environmental requirements for the aquaculture industry’. My question to the Council of State is: Is strict environmental requirements for the aquaculture industry currently being imposed?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e1123	First of all, I think that in fact, most people understand that the industry has to buy an offer for increased capacity before there is money in the account. All of them, most of them understand. And when we say we're going to make strict demands on the farming industry, it's because the Storting has adopted it. One thing is that we have a growth regime now based on salmonnus, and the considerations to be taken into account there, but the Stortinget has also said that I should investigate and base criteria that go on the escape part, on the emission part, and that means that there are new regulations. And with regard to what's at risk of infection, there's a PD regulation that's going to be a control plan, going on the transport of live fish, etc., that we have to tighten up, and the industry is fully aware that we have to take some action in that direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e1133	This question, from Per Olaf Lundtigen to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Justice and Security, who will direct him.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e1138	‘I refer to the treatment of Innst by Stortingen. 15 S [[2017-2018]] After the recent opinions, does the Government now agree with the above proposals?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e1145	Effective action against labour crime requires good coordination, both between the different control modes and with the police and the prosecution authority. The government's strategy against crime at work is therefore aimed at strengthening coordination against this serious crime. The government’s strategy against labour crime was revised in February 2017. Several measures are relevant. Firstly, the establishment of a national interdisciplinary analysis and intelligence centre, NTAES, has resulted in the development of national threat and risk assessments and in the provision of comprehensive intelligence that provides an important basis for targeting the joint operational efforts of the police and control teams against the criminal actors. Furthermore, since 2015, we have established a total of seven co-located centres against labour-related crime, the a-crime centres. They aim to ensure that the police and control systems work more effectively, systematically and more effectively in the face of criminals in the workplace. The A-Crimen Centres and other operational cooperation in progress between the departments contribute greatly to coordinated supervisory and control efforts. Even from the start, we see that the results from the centres have shown a very positive development. I am therefore strengthened in the belief that this work has an effect. In order to further strengthen the shared efforts of the ETAs, a common governance model for cooperation against the crime of working life at the a-krim centres has now been decided. This will include, inter alia: guidelines on how matters are to be dealt with in cooperation and followed up in the line of each establishment and how the a-krim centres are to be manned for each establishment. It is now working on defining common objectives and governance parameters for this cooperation. They have also developed joint cooperation action plans.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e1156	I thank you for your answer. As the Council of State expresses itself, he is strengthened in the belief that this which has been done has an effect. Unfortunately, when we read the strategy against crime at work, the revised document of 13 February 2017, paragraph No. 8 refers to the fact that one has asked the Administrative Law Committee to assess the rules of the Administrative Law on professional secrecy against the need for information from other authorities in order to combat crime. That setting should only be issued in November 2018 – this year. Then we got NOU 2017:5 on March 2nd, and it says in Annex 1 that there is «defective coordination». So it came after government strategy. It's a failure of coordination. My question is, what is being done about what's in the NOU?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e1163	It is important to have good coordination. It is equally important to share information between public authorities in a good way. With regard to police access to information sharing with other public bodies, there is no need for legislative changes in the first place. The Police Register Act already provides sufficient resources for the provision of information both in criminal prevention and in specific criminal proceedings. In the case of the Tax Agency and the Customs Office, I am aware that the Ministry of Finance will send a proposal for legal remedies to allow the Tax Agency and the customs office to share information with the other agencies at the a-krim centres. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is now considering proposals for changes to the Nav Code to facilitate the increased sharing of information across borders — from Nav to the other departments participating in the A-Crime Cooperation. So here we are facilitating more sharing and better coordination.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e1168	Now I wonder if the various state councils that are responsible for this talk in particular. The newspaper had a big headline on December 24 where it said: ‘The tax administration knew that convicted paints the job in the municipality’s construction site – did not say from it.’ It was then taken up by the representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik in a written question, and the Minister of Finance Siv Jensen gave an answer on 9 January 2018 where she concluded with the following: ‘I will send, at the hearing, a note containing legislative proposals to improve the tax haven’s ability to share information with other public authorities.’ So it was the Minister of Finance's answer to this problem, namely that the municipality of Oslo had an agreement – in this case – it was that the agreement restricted the extent to which one could get information about which employees were in the business. And so the Council of State now says that there is no need for legislative changes – when the Council of State, Jensen, has told the Stortinget that one should present it in a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e1183	Now I think the representative Lundteg must listen to what I actually said. I did not say that there was no need for legislative changes. What I said was that there is no primary need for legislative changes. I believe that we need to look at legislative changes in all areas to ensure the sharing of information, to ensure that we have good cooperation that enables us to apprehend and persecute those who commit this type of crime. But it's a challenge. At least I encourage, and which I think we need to put further pressure on, is to sort out misunderstandings that probably exist in part of the floors, where you don't use the premises you have in the current law to share information, make sure that you cooperate. It is important to use the funds you already have, but then I have in no way excluded change in legislation. I believe that this also needs to be followed up and carefully considered.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e1193	‘The NRC has, after New Year’s, switched its district news broadcasts on TV from one 15-minute broadcast before the Dayrevy to three short news updates sent three times during the evening. This has caused strong reactions in many places in the country because the short shipments involve far fewer cases and much less content than the offer NRK had before the conversion. Does the Council of State consider that this conversion is in the public service remit of the NRK?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e1200	I want to thank you for the question. Like the representative Sem-Jacobsen, I have also registered that there is a huge commitment around the country. In particular, we who are from the district and know that everything that happens around Norway should not focus on just what is happening here in the Oslo pot, realize that people are engaged. I'm glad because it says something about how important the public broadcasting service we have in Norway is to people's everyday lives. According to the NRK poster, the NRK is to reflect the geographical diversity of Norway. They must have a good local offer, they must be present in all counties. Furthermore, it follows from the NRK’s Statute, which was last revised in December 2017, that the NRK’s obligation to produce a content based on districts. It also follows from the statutes that the NRC shall have district consignments every working day. Section 6-3 of the Broadcasting Act states that the broadcasting manager is the Executive Director of the NRK and is therefore responsible for the ongoing programme activities. This means that it is up to the NRK and the editorial freedom of the broadcaster to decide how best to fulfil the public broadcasting mission within the framework set by the public broadcasting mission. The media surveillance authority shall carry out an annual independent assessment of the fulfilment of that mission by the NRK. The report of the media inspectorate is transmitted to the Ministry of Culture and is then discussed in the general meeting of the NRK. I have put the question to the representative of Mr Sem-Jacobsen for the NRK. The NRK answers that they are constantly working on improving the provision of districts and how the content reaches the audience. In this context, the NRK indicates that total district TV coverage for the whole country now only reaches less than 50,000 Nordics under 50 years of age. For this reason, the NRC has chosen to launch several actions to increase the proportion of entries from district offices in the nationwide news transmissions and on other NRC platforms, such as: mobile and tablet. As of 2 January, the NRK has also transferred the district broadcasts on TV to strengthen the work of deepening journalism on radio, TV and mobile. The goal of the conversion, as NRK describes it to me, is to focus on the main issues and follow the development of them more closely. Instead of two district shipments 15 minutes before Dayrevyen and 5 minutes before Dayrevyen 21, the NRK’s intention has now been to update the population better through three district shipments in 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e1213	I thank the Council of State for the answer and am pleased that she has taken this up with the NRK. Yesterday, the family and culture committee visited the NRK and also raised this matter with them. Then the NRK leadership was very aware of the criticism, this was to be evaluated, and they were ready for a good dialogue with the politicians, and I see they have included the Council of State. Then I think maybe the Council of State should take a point, because yesterday the NRK defended itself a lot with regard to Section 24 of the NRK poster, which says that the NRK should be present on all important media platforms, including the Internet, to reach everyone. They are not so concerned about how many people watch TV broadcasts, but they want to bet more on the Internet. But all media – including TV, live images – are covered by that paragraph, and now there is very little TV being produced, i.e. district news material. They say it's almost as much, but that's not the case. I wonder if the council will take it up with them, for who is going to make district news on TV at least as much as before?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e1228	My starting point is that a public broadcaster who receives almost six billion dollars. kr of Community money, is engaged in mirroring the whole country, reaching out to the entire population, standing strong throughout the country, and also fulfilling its mandate in a way that cannot be called into question. That is why I am very pleased that the Committee has a good dialogue with the NRK. As I understand it, they're also busy getting to other platforms, especially because the younger generation, who might not see so much on near-TV, is also going to follow NRK's programming. That is why I am concerned that it is the Media Regulatory Authority that is now closely following developments and submitting its supervisory report.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e1233	On the visits we had to the various media houses yesterday, we also visited a number of newspaper houses that expressed concern that the conversion in the NRK to more bet on Internet news will reduce the willingness to pay for their services. They want more balance and maybe they want to complement each other more. In that picture there are perhaps few others who are as well rusted as the NRK to make TV from the districts, and while the newspapers are concerned about the violent Internet investment, I wonder if the council is interested in discussing it with the NRK. I would like to make a little comment: For a while the NRK received criticism that they were not good enough online. Now they've become, but it's clear you might have to adjust a little bit, because we all want to have the best possible diversity and distribution between the different media.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e1240	I fully agree with the representative Sem-Jacobsen's description of how the reality is perceived by all the others who are not close to receiving so much media support for their online offers. It is precisely the balance that is important for the authorities to maintain, because we want a media diversity across the country, and local press is very important for local democracy and for people around Norway. That's exactly why I took the initiative in the study where the media agency was now commissioned to look at the role of the NRK, especially on digital platforms, and how they affect the rest of the media diversity. The NRC is responsible for ensuring media pluralism in Norway. The report will be published during March. I look forward to seeing that we who work with media policy can go into it and provide a basis for further media support.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e1249	I allow myself to ask the following questions: ‘In a letter dated 10 November 2017 from the Ministry of Defence of Eirik Skarland in the organisation Bevar Andøya Flystation, the Ministry writes that ‘the Ministry will decide to publish information on the recommended solution of the draft selection inquiry — including the location of construction and cost estimates — as soon as the draft selection inquiry has been completed, and hopefully by 17 November 2017’. What is the reason why the Ministry has still not submitted the draft committee inquiry?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e1258	The Ministry of Defence has, as referred to here, carried out a draft selection investigation on how the Stortinge’s decision to extend the level of detail is to be implemented. The investigation is an internal work in the ministry, which is now being quality-guaranteed externally. It is only when the external quality assurance is clear and we have received and evaluated the report that the detailed requirements for Evens are available. I've been aware that I want the most openness possible in this process. At the same time, I am busy giving the Storting the most up-to-date and correct picture possible. That is why we have now chosen a solution by publishing the recommended solution for Evenes when the external quality assurance is completed. This is a matter in which we have been clear that the Stortinget will be properly informed about the results in the spring 2018 session. The main conclusions of the external quality insurer are expected to be available in March and the final report will be sent to the ministry thereafter. There are two drafts of representatives for discussion in Stortinget, Document 8:53 S for 2017-2018 and Document 8:55 S for 2017-2018, both of which deal in their own way with the decision on Evenes. Consultations were held on yesterday's drafts of representatives, and they are scheduled to be discussed in the Stortinget on 1 March. In the light of the timetable for external quality assurance in the form of letters before Christmas, I contacted the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee and asked the Committee to consider postponing the debate on the proposals for the last half of April – this in order to ensure that, when the matter is to be debated, the Stortinget has access to the most up-to-date information, based on the government's plan for further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e1269	I thank you for the answer and must commend the Council of State for asking him to put the debate to the external quality assurance service. In the new government statement, the Right, the Advance Party and the Left state that the government will: ‘based on the ongoing external quality assurance of the concept selection investigation of the Evenes Aviation Station, carry out an updated review of the basis for the closure of Andeya Aviation Station and its establishment on Evenes’. Thus, the government is not only to make an assessment of the costs of Evens, but also, as they say, to ‘make an up-to-date review of the basis’. A few hours after this was presented, it seemed that the council tried to run away from the government's promise, among other things. in NRK. Now, the Council of State will have to answer in an understandable manner: will the government carry out an updated review of the basis for the closure of Andeya Air Station, or is there only a review of the calculations that the government intends to make?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e1283	I replied to this several times during the hearing yesterday, and I did not perceive that I was unclear. I also realized that what I said was actually understood. But I can repeat what I said yesterday: in the government statement, we have a wording called ‘based on external quality assurance’. [[...]] If we have big deviations in numbers from the plans and budgets we have for Evenes, if there's a big deviation when the external quality assurance comes, there's a reason to put a foot in the ground and review the numbers we're operating with. That would also imply the numbers for Andeya. It is behind the wording of the government statement, and that is also what I said in the hearing yesterday.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e1288	If that's what the Council of State is now explaining, which is behind the wording, I would like that to be what was written in the government statement, so that it is understandable to the Storting which direction the government intends to take on this question. It is clear that if there are specific economic changes, an overall review should be carried out. But that's not necessarily the question. The question that has been asked for answers, including: by means of the proposals of the representatives, are concerned with looking at and taking an overall review of more matters than only the economic accounts, which have, to a large extent, also raised major questions. The quality assurance to be carried out takes into account, inter alia: the investment budget, if I've got it right. Can the Council of State guarantee that the investment budget presented in the decision-making basis for the choice of Evens is provided with sufficient resources to ensure a professionally recommended fuel capacity, which has been raised by several as a new moment in the following weeks?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e1295	When the wording is ‘based on external quality assurance’, I think a lot of people will see it as the results of the external quality assurance will be decisive for what assessment we are continuing to make. [[...]] I do not think that is unclear to most people who hear and read the wording. I think that is a good wording. We have said that in the draft committee investigation we will answer a lot of the questions that are asked, but both of respect for those who are affected by the decisions we have made, and of respect for the fact that we have put it into external quality assurance, I do not want to pre-empt the results. I say that I have no indication now that we have miscalculated, but that is a reason why we use external quality assurance. This is in order for the decision-making basis we have to be as fundamental as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e1305	‘Two new border police cars shall be stationed in Eastfold and Finnmark. It is positive, but I record that the bet once again happens without Hedmark. There is one of Norway’s most trafficked border crossing points, at Magnor, and a total of 38 crossing points. The police in Kongswinger and the surrounding area use a lot of capacity on border crimps and have for a while their entire field service on Magnor. Where has it been made by the deployment of border crimps in Hedmark, and how will the Council of State provide enough resources and good cooperation between the police and customs in Hedmark?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e1312	The presence of police at the border shall cover several purposes. It concerns the fight against crime, border and foreign controls, social security and assistance to other authorities in their performance of their duties. The Directorate of Police is responsible for allocating resources to the police districts. The budget itself must give priority to different actions within the allocated framework, including: funds for new frontier vehicles. Since the question is of an operational nature, I have obtained opinions from the Directorate of Police, which provide the following information: It is important to distinguish between two different reasons for the acquisition of frontier vehicles. The first reason is an immediate response to an acutely demanding development in the migration field, where East police districts and Finnmark police districts have been allocated funds for the acquisition of cars equipped with equipment to carry out border control in the territory. Since the arrivals of asylum have been highest in these two police districts, it was decided that cars should be deployed as an emergency element in East Police District and Finnmark Police District. In the inland police district, arrival rates have never shown the same high level of development. The second reason for funds for the acquisition of frontier cars is a stronger commitment to the control of the Schengen external border, in particular the maritime border. Inland police districts are, as you know, the only police district without an external border at sea. As part of capacity building, the Police Directorate has allocated some police district funds for the acquisition of border cars. This allocation responds in addition to the observations of the Schengen evaluation carried out in the autumn of 2017, which identified the need for a concept of mobility in border control. Combating cross-border crime is an important part of the overall task portfolio of the police. In the context of the near-police reform, a new office has been set up at Magnormoen. The Police Directorate informs that the cooperation between the Norwegian and Swedish police forces and the police and customs services has thus been better placed through the future possibility of a joint service. The Police Directorate also points out that cooperation between the Inland Police District and the Police Region of Bergslagen was positively highlighted in the Schengen evaluation of police cooperation in 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e1325	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I do not feel that he answered the question of how the Council of State will combat border crime in Hedmark. We are talking about a region that has major challenges with cross-border crime, such as smuggling, drugs and organised crime. The Council of State referred to a newly established office at Magnormoen. It's not established yet, so I'm wondering if the Council of State can say anything about when we can expect it to come. It has been notified for a long time, but it has been running out in time for the time being. We also know that the police coverage in Hedmark is lower than the national average. We know that when the government was to bet heavily on the border in 2016, which they continued in 2017, 120 new posts were created for border crime, but none of them came to Hedmark, 52 came to Eastfold. How will the Council of State strengthen the work of border crime in Hedmark?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e1330	My responsibility is to strengthen the fight against border crime. In this case, funds must be allocated according to which the need is considered to be greatest. As the Council of State, I have a responsibility for allocating budgetary resources to the entire police operation through the Directorate of Police. Dissemination of budgets between 12 police districts is a professional assessment carried out at directorate level, and the Police Directorate informs me that priorities within the allocated framework of the Inland Police District are a central theme of the governance dialogue between the Directorate and the Inland Police District. I assume that there is a good dialogue between the Police Directorate and the police district, and that there is a good process to ensure that the district is cared for in the allocation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e1335	The Council of State cannot disclaim all responsibility for cross-border crime in Hedmark, for it is about budgetary resources, it is about resources. You can leave responsibility for priorities to a police officer, but you have to give enough resources to make it possible to make different priorities. Among other things, it was assumed that the main seat of the geographical holding east of the Inland was actually to be located on Kongsvinger, coordinated with the customs office. There were many positive ones, including: Minister of Justice and POD. But at the last moment, the decision was changed by the chief of police that it would be in Elverum instead. Some of the reasons were that he was afraid that there would be too much focus on border crime, which would overshadow other police work if it were on Kongswinger. Doesn't it say a little about the resource situation when a police officer is afraid you can't handle other police work because you have to deal with too much border crime?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e1340	Once again, it is very difficult to recognise in the Central Party's description of the situation in the Norwegian police. We've had a historic structure of the police, in the billion-dollar class. Only this year have we added more than half a thousand new police-trained people. There's a strong commitment to the police in Norway. But it is a challenge to have a tendency, especially from the Stortings, to engage at a level of detail that goes well in depth – when you get involved in the distribution of cars between different police districts. I think that's a challenge. It also helps to make it harder for the police officers around our twelve police districts to make the right assessments, deploy the resources where they are most needed. As I have explained, there are some overall considerations taken into account in the allocation of these resources. It is about Schengen's external border, and it is about migration control.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e1348	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice and Defence the following questions: ‘New requirements of the DSB sent on a hearing will result in centralisation of the rental of the fire and rescue services in large parts of the country. Are not other challenges more important to fire and rescue preparedness in the future than poor rental?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e1357	First of all, I would like to make it clear that the legislation to which it refers has not yet been consulted but is at the discretion of the Ministry of Justice and Defence. The government will facilitate the provision of a professional, powerful fire and rescue service to municipalities, and more measures will be taken to achieve it. Several investigations and experience of events in recent years show that several fire and rescue services face challenges in dealing with major and/or complex incidents. Challenges related to the competence of prevention have also been identified. The government is therefore considering more measures to ensure an even better fire and rescue service than we have today and to facilitate greater fire cooperation. As one of the measures, the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness, DSB, was asked to submit proposals for revision of the Fire Service Regulation. DSB submitted a new draft regulation to the Ministry of Justice and Defence on 1 November 2017. Full-time management requirements in the fire and rescue services are one of the proposals contained in the draft. The proposals will now be carefully reviewed and evaluated before they may be sent to a wide public consultation. The DSB has stressed the broad involvement of the municipalities and the fire and rescue services themselves in the work on a new regulation. I want to make it clear that the government will not propose to shut down any of today's 620 fire stations. Firefighters and resources shall be present in the community also in the future. The strength of the fire and rescue services is just local. Fire and rescue services are present where people live and where people move. They shall provide rapid assistance when people need help, regardless of when a fire or an accident occurs on a day-to-day basis. They're going to keep doing that in the years that come.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e1366	I want to thank you for your answer. The fires in Lærdal, Flatanger and Frøya were swallowed in a good way, without loss of life and without serious personal injury. People locally made a great effort, for which they excite praise. Help needs to be quickly received. Life and property are feared by people in both small part-time and fractional settings. This must be the case in our far-reaching country, and I am glad that the Council of State is very clear that there should not be a centralisation of local fire preparedness. So if you're going to be effective, you have to do something about what's most important, first. Keeping paper and perms in order and people in permanent leadership settings doesn't help if the help comes too late, i.e. after the house has burned down, or life has ended abruptly. The following question is: Does the government not agree that it is more important to get more resources into the first line service than to use more resources on the lead?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e1379	I don't see that one excludes the other. It is very important that municipalities prioritise fire and rescue services – it is important for our preparedness; it is important for the security of most people. So I don't believe that it excludes that we need to do some work to modernise the fire and rescue service – we also have to do that in the time to come – but I want to be absolutely clear that this is not about centralisation. This is about facilitating a better fire and rescue service, facilitating even more security in people’s lives – across the country – and not about centralisation. I hope the Center Party can put it aside and rather lift its head and be there looking forward, to make sure that we have the best possible starting point for delivering a good fire and rescue service across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e1384	Governments stressed, most recently in the answer to previous questions, that it was important to prioritise among scarce resources. Of course, this is also the case in the case of fire and rescue preparedness. I'm impressed by the efforts of many who work in the fire department when it comes to saving lives. They often have small job fractions, which are natural, and they do a great job. These people would like to have better equipment, and they would have had training in the use of equipment, for example. to release people trapped in cars. Then the question is again: if one is to be effective and do the most important thing first, which government wants to target its efforts within this field in the years to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e1391	There are many conditions to be maintained and lifted in the coming time to provide an even better fire and rescue service. However, we do not exclude that it is a municipal responsibility to prioritize the resources to the fire and rescue services, and it is a responsibility that I assume also the Center Party share that the municipalities will also have in the continuation. This is about the fact that local politicians actually give priority to the most important thing first. Another thing is about strengthening fire education. The Government has therefore decided to establish a public two-year vocational school for the training of fire and rescue personnel in the municipality of Tjeldsund. The new technical school is also an important part of the government’s work to facilitate the provision of a professional and professionally competent fire and rescue service to municipalities. However, like the representative, I believe that there is a great deal of effort across the country in the Norwegian fire and rescue services. This is what we are going to do to ensure that we can also continue to do without any kind of centralisation reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e1398	Thus, Minister of Justice and Defence Per-Willy Amundsen received the last words of today's Question Time, and Case No. 2 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-01-17.ana.ud312e1412	There is no record available. Thus, the map is currently processed. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
