ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e74	A number of permit applications are available: from representatives Kari Elisabeth Kaski and Eirik Sivertsen on leave from 7 May to 9 May, both to take part in travel with the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Norway from the Left Group on the Permit of the Representative Abid Q. Raja from 7 May to 9 May to take part in the Conferences of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly in Lisbon and Rome from the representative of Ingunn Foss on leave from 7 May to 9 May, from the representatives of Sigbjørn Gælsvik and Svein Roald Hansen on leave on 7 and 8 May, and from the representative of Heidi Nordby Lunde on leave on 8 and 9 May, all to attend meetings of the EEA Joint Parliamentary Committee in Stavanger from the Socialist Left Group on welfare leave of the representative Solfrid Lerbreck for the period from 7 May to 9 May from the Workers' Group on the leave of the representative Jorod Asphjell on 8 and 9 May to attend the meeting of the Nordic Council in Malmö From the first deputy representative of the Akershus County, Martha Tärud, there is an application for exemption from meeting in Stortinget under the leave of the representative Sigbjørn Gælsvik due to illness. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the West-Agder counties: Mathias Bernander For Akershus County: Solveig Schytz and Oddvar Igland For the Nordic region: Kjell-Idar Juvik For Oslo: Mats A. Kirkebirkeland and Olivia Corso Salles For Rogaland County: Eirik Faret Sakariassen For South-Trundellag County: Kristian Torve For Eastfold County: Arve Sigmundstad Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16 until today's map has been processed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e193	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e209	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Green Party 5 minutes, Red 5 minutes and 5 minutes to members of the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, a sequence change be made by up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of the parties and up to six lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e222	Let me first thank you for the cooperation in the committee. It is gratifying that the minority has come to the conclusion that the majority has promoted a number of good proposals, for which they have subsequently chosen to support. Climate change is real and dangerous. I think we have a moral obligation to do something about it, because it goes most far beyond already poor people in already poor countries. As a conservative, I also see that climate change can change everything, turn its back on local communities, nations and global society. I can't accept that, with the conservative ideas I have in my spinal cord. Climate change must be combated. That's why we work in Norway, and we work internationally. Local politicians work to find good local solutions, in terms of both climate adaptation and public transport. The government is making more money for public transport in big cities than any other government has ever done. At Stortingen some of us come together about the good climate solutions. This is why Enova is more resource-intensive than ever, precisely because there is an important tool in the conversion of Norway. By the majority of the four parties, we have become world leaders in river ferries, we have clear objectives for the transport sector, where we have started a revolution, and we are working together with the parties in agriculture and fisheries. Norway has clear objectives, and we have had a majority in the last five years who are willing to work for the goals set – almost new in Norwegian policy. Never has our country been closer to achieving the 2020 targets, and it doesn't come of itself. Emissions are declining, both in the quota and non-quota sectors. So what are we doing today? Today, we are adopting what will be the framework for the agreement Norway will have with the EU in the context of climate policy. When you say that, it might not sound so exciting, it might not seem so juicy, but it is. It's not like what we're doing today is completely new. The basis for what we are doing today has been laid between the four cooperation parties in the previous period. Today, we agree on the framework for the agreement with the EU, we agree on the strategy for achieving our climate objectives. Once we are connected to climate policy in the EU, it may be the most important thing that has happened to Norwegian climate policy for many, many years. Behind the memory are the red-green failures: the moon landing project, the admission that they expected to push on the climate targets. These are the red-green modes operating: up like a bear, down like a skin trap – it never fails. With the four games, we've moved on. We want offensive targets, and we want commitments to those targets. The majority today agree on a number of things. Let me mention some of them. We lay the basis for a stepped-up work on biogas. We need to work better with the biogas industry to establish an industry standard for biogas, so that climate change is documented. We shall try to achieve combined heating and electricity supply, in particular for small biogas plants and solar panels aimed at agriculture. We're putting a stronger spotlight on hydrogen. The Government will now present a hydrogen strategy and Norway will initiate cooperation with other countries for a possible Nordic hydrogen strategy. We will continue the maritime work that has made Norway lie ahead of us. This concerns the farming industry and how we can get the passenger transport on a fast boat free of emission. We say that the government should further develop the green shipping programme to include zero-emission and hybrid concepts and to cover different vessel categories by 2030. It has become, as we know, a debate on our fjords, and then there are three things that are important to our parties. One is that we should take care of our world heritage. Of course, we have a responsibility for our world heritage. These are our common fjords, and we're going to make sure that the generations of the future can enjoy them in the same way that we've had the opportunity to do. The second is that we should be able to have a cruise industry in Norway. It's an important asset in our travel life. The third is that we should still be able to show our fjords to people from other countries. Everyone deserves more than just seeing pictures of our amazing nature. All these considerations are borne out by the proposals we have with regard to fjords. One is that we want to work out stricter regulations for black water and gray water emissions from ships. It is a nature protection issue and is important, among other things, for biodiversity. The second is the emissions. World heritage fjords shall be required to emit zero emissions from tourist ships and ferries as soon as it is technically feasible and no later than 2026. We will implement requirements and regulations for emissions from cruise ships and other maritime traffic in tourist fjords as well as use other good instruments to ensure phase-in of low- and zero-emission solutions in shipping by 2030. These things are not specific about European cooperation, but we agreed that we could include this in the communication, although it is not really meant to address such issues. These are important things, and therefore I take up the proposals from the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party. We are voting against a number of proposals from the minority, and there are several reasons for that. Firstly, some of the proposals have a questionable climate impact. Secondly, it is a proposal that needs to be properly investigated. Think about it, the investigation is almost something that has become a shell word in Norwegian political debate. What does it say about the level of seriousness we've been given in the public conversation lately? That's really weird. It's important that we know well what the consequences of something are before we do it, and how to implement it in the best possible way. This message is about the strategy we're going to have to cut our emissions by 2030. In the debate that has taken place, we have heard that we have no climate objectives in Norway. It's wrong, it's a distortion of truth. Norway shall cut 40 pst. in the non-quota sector by 2030, and we will work to meet that target. Then we come to the main point in the communication, and that is European cooperation. That is absolutely crucial, because climate policy is not a national issue. Climate policy requires national action, yes, but we are also totally dependent on international cooperation. That is why I am so pleased with the consensus that we are going to work with Europe to ensure that, yes, each country is cut off in its emissions, but that Europe's overall emissions are also going to fall. It's important, and with this framework that we're now going into, we have the opportunity to cut where it monks the most. I am disappointed that the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Greens are opposed to these principles of climate policy today. All in all, I believe that we have received a good message. This shows that we have an offensive climate policy. We are now talking about the framework for the agreement we are going to have with the EU. It's important. Then, of course, there will also come several things after this about how we follow this up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e258	The representative Stefan Heggelund has addressed the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e265	The Climate Communication says that a target for agricultural emissions should be quantified. The centre party is also in order for agriculture to take part in the emission cuts, but not in the case of Norwegian food production. A technical estimation committee for the agricultural sector has now been set up. The aim is to provide a better basis for accounting for actual emissions from the industry. Why does the Right want to quantify a target for emissions in this sector, when we do not have a system of measurement that is good enough today and which is most likely to go beyond just Norwegian food production?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e270	This is a so-called strawman, simply – it's nothing but that. The four majority parties are quite clear – which is also the former cooperation parties of the Centre Party – that we should have sectoral ambitions for cuts in the non-quota sector. It's important. And that's right: we have a technical calculation sample, which we also mention in our notes, where it says that the calculations for emissions, of course, have to be as good as possible. For us to have sectoral ambitions for emissions, there can be no surprise for the Centre Party – or for agriculture. Agriculture knows that well, and agriculture is involved. That's why we have a party-based sample where we're discussing how we're going to get this done, with the agricultural industry and, besides, with the fishing industry. So I think it's important to remember one thing: this isn't the first period in the history of Great Britain. We also laid down some important principles for agricultural policy in the previous period, including: increased food production.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e279	In a debate with our colleague Åsmund Aukrust in Political Quarter last week, the representative Heggelund said that one of the arguments to commit to the European Union was that the EU had more control over us than we had – that it was more committed to cooperation with the European Union than to making its own decisions. Is it the general opinion of the representative Heggelund on climate policy that we are unable to achieve our own objectives if we do not commit ourselves together with others?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e284	What I said in that debate -- maybe a little spooky -- was that I think all countries need to be careful about each other, because the world has been altogether too bad to achieve the emission targets. I am now in a line-up with a representative from a party that has not been able to achieve one single climate goal they have set. If there is one person who needs obligations, it is precisely this representative and the party he represents. I am pleased that we have binding emission targets, and I must say that I am quite disappointed – disappointed in the Workers' Party – because the Workers' Party no longer has its own climate policy. They've left everything they've stood for. They have left a system they have been involved in creating, which would help to take large, effective emission reductions in Europe as well. The alternative to the representative Barth Eide is that he has to go on a boy tour to Poland to ask them to be so kind as to cut their carbon emissions. We want to be part of a framework where we can push Europe to bring emissions down.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e293	When the climate announcement gets unisoned slaughter by a global environmental movement, and today's government party Left was also very critical of the climate announcement when it was presented on 16 June last year, it must be good to be as self-sufficient as the representative Heggelund was in his post, and so very pleased with his own efforts. It is a distortion of the debate to say that we do not have a target for Norway's emissions by 2030. Then I have a simple question for the representative Heggelund: How many tonnes of CO 2 will be Norway's emissions in 2030 with this message?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e303	I do not think anyone should be self-sufficient in climate policy. But I believe that the framework we are now setting up is absolutely crucial, and that it is important that we have European cooperation, which I record that the representative Haltbrecken is opposed, both in terms of the Acer issue, and in terms of this. He won't cooperate internationally. I understand that he is a little hurt, because he did not get an impact on his climate policy as SV was part of the red-green government, and they are not getting an impact on their climate policy now. SV does not get an impact on climate policy, and that is good. The emission targets - we're going to cut 40 pst. by 2030. We will do so in cooperation with Europe. The notification contains a number of tonnes, 20 million tonnes to 25 million tonnes by 2030. This can be scaled up. Most of it – a total of 30 million tonnes – will be taken in Norway, but we will also contribute to offensive emissions cuts in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e312	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e318	The climate challenge is our greatest challenge. There's a sentence we say so often that it can almost sound like a cliché. But it's not a cliché – it's bloody serious. It's the greatest challenge in our time. All the policies we pursue must withstand the challenge of climate change. The Labour Party believes that we should do what we learned from Gro Harlem Brundtland, when she was the world's environmental director at the beginning of the 1990s – we should think globally, act locally. Let's imagine the big picture – the typhoons that strike over the Philippines, endangered island states, starvation disasters on the Horn of Africa and how we ourselves encounter a wilder and wetter weather. But we're going to do the job ourselves. Every country has to go on its own and think, what can be our contribution? The size must mobilise all good forces – in the municipalities, in the business community and by individuals. The climate problem shall not be solved by anyone else — elsewhere at a different time. We have to act on our own. In Norwegian policy, the government has been at the forefront. Hardly a single initiative was taken under Erna Solberg's leadership in the last period. Everything that happened came at the initiative of Stortinget – either the Right Party and the Advance Party had to be dragged and dragged to join, or they voted against it in the last round. Therefore, our expectations for the climate announcement that came a year ago were very small. But even with little expectations, we were disappointed, because we received a message that was completely without any new policy. It is not my words, it was the climate minister himself who said that when he presented it – that these are no new measures – it is a summary of what we are doing. The best question he got at that press conference was from a journalist who asked why he had actually submitted this message. The message we are dealing with today does not come up with any new proposals, and it cancels national climate targets. It's a message that's just going to be about the non-quota sector, by definition, what we're going to do at home in Norway. Nevertheless, the government proposes to buy allowances for up to one third of our commitments. We thus get a climate policy that will be totally impossible for people to understand. One might suspect that the Right, the Advance Party and now the Left too will misjudge the debate in the absence of a good climate policy. It's a shame, but we're going to be able to mobilize the entire people in a Norwegian climate dew. The Labour Party believes that Norway must have a clear national target in climate policy, also because it is a trick to Norway. This is the transition that we have to go through anyway. If we are to become a low-carbon society, we should invest now. We should invest in new, climate-friendly technologies that can create jobs across the country. And it is also true that the use of these so-called flexible mechanisms does not necessarily result in greenhouse gas emissions in other countries. Therefore, the proposals of the government parties are both poor use of money and poor climate policies. Today, the working party is behind 35 proposals to improve the climate communication. Unfortunately, it does not seem that any of them will be adopted. We are proposing measures in the areas of transport, agriculture and industry and fossil-free construction sites. We also propose that Norway should step up its international climate assistance. All will be voted down by the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian Party. The Left and Christian People's Party has obviously chosen to prioritize the cooperation climate with the Advance Party in front of the planet's climate. It's a shame, because then it'll probably be a lost opportunity for the Storting to do something about this. Now there will be new postponements, as we heard from the President-in-Office. It doesn't have the planet's climate time. When the message was submitted before the election, we in the Workers' Party said exactly the same as what we are going to vote for today. Another person who said the same thing was Ola Elvestuen. He shared our criticism and said that this message had significant weaknesses, in which the Left would now settle. Well, now he has become a climate minister and has every opportunity to sort it out. But although he has been given the ministerial position, he has obviously lost the internal negotiations and barely made any changes. I think Ola Elvestuen believes the same thing now as what he did before the elections, and that he should wish today that he could actually vote for many of the proposals that the Labour Party and the other opposition parties have put forward. Now he sees the price you have to pay for the cooperation with the Right and the Advance Party. He has had the same experience as his two predecessors – how difficult it is to get through to that government. That's what Prime Minister Erna Solberg said when she was supposed to defend her climate ministers in the attack from the environmental movement. She said that it is “ready tougher to stand on for the climate in a government where someone is not so busy about it”. The Labour Party will take climate policy home, pursue offensive policies to reduce emissions, make air cleaner and invest in new jobs in Norway. I will end by thanking the Centre Party, the Swedish Environment Party and the Greens for their good cooperation and for the number of points on which we are today united. Then I would also say to the Christian People's Party that the door is open. They can show in environmental policy that they are a real opposition party. With the government we have today, we really need an opposition that takes control of climate policy. I bring up the proposals on which the Workers' Party is alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e341	The representative of Åsmund Aukrust has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e348	I think it is a pity when we discuss such an important message, and the Workers' Party is making its contribution, and then there are no arguments. It's zero substance. It's just an interpretation of what you think about different parties, taken from some debate folder written by some communication advisor. There are no substantive arguments for the huge turnaround that the Workers' Party is now doing in climate policy, away from a responsible climate policy in which we cooperate with Europe. For one of the things the August representative says no to today, the possibility is that Norway itself can delete allowances in Europe, that Norway can contribute entirely on its own to the rise of the quota price and the carbon price, and that emissions in Europe are becoming more expensive. That's what the Workers' Party says no. They don't want to be in it. Then I wonder why.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e353	It's amazing to hear the case rapporteur. I have never heard such a confident case rapporteur in a matter that thus contains zero new policies. The working party has not turned around - on the contrary. I started talking about how we stand for the same thing now as what we did when Gro Harlem Brundtland was the world's climate leader. She said: think globally, act locally – the job we're going to do here, no one else is going to do the climate action for us. Nor is it true that we cannot buy allowances and delete them. We all have the opportunity to do that. What the Labour Party is saying is that in the non-quota sector, we're going to do the cuts ourselves. We're not going to buy allowances as a replacement for cut here at home in Norway. That's what the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have joined in today, and that's what the Labour Party says no. On the contrary, the Labour Party says that we should step up our international assistance. We say we're going to spend more money on climate action in developing countries. There is no right and the Progress Party today, so if they were so concerned about what we should do out there in the world, they should rather vote in favour of the Workers' Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e360	The government commits to meeting the 2030 targets with emphasis on domestic emission reductions with the necessary use of flexibility and the possibility of direct agreements between EU Framework countries, in order to meet our commitments in the non-quota sector. International trade in climate quotas was initially a Norwegian initiative and launched by the Workers' Party. The problem was, of course, that Norway, unlike many other countries, had a different starting point because we did not have cutting capabilities in the power sector because of our use of the power of the foot. As a result, Norway has been an international driver of what was referred to as cost-effective agreements. As much environment as possible for the money was the slogan. This no longer wants the Labour Party to participate and asks the government not to make use of flexibility mechanisms between countries nor between the quota and non-quota sectors. What's changed?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e365	It sounds like we're about to end all trading of quotas. Half of Norwegian emissions are part of the quota market. They still have to be. What we are now discussing is the non-quota sector. Listen to the word: non-quota sector. Then we're saying that it's just going to be: not allowances in the non-quota sector. Then they ask what is cost-effective. Well, the most cost-effective thing is to prevent the man-made climate change. That is the serious threat we are facing. It's if we don't make it that we're really going to have problems on the expenditure side.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e370	Both the forest industry and the food industry fear that a new EU legislation will weaken the value creation of primary industries. The climate rules are aligned to increase the recorded carbon emissions from soil and forest. In practice, it may give rise to more stringent emission obligations for, inter alia: these industries. If forestry increases its yield by 2030, it can be penalised by the EU. The center part looks at the forest as part of the green shift in Norway. I have noticed that the Workers' Party is now moving away from the previous view of using flexible mechanisms between the quota and non-quota sectors. Does the Labour Party see the challenges this can pose for forestry in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e377	The reason we don't want to do that is because we want to have national obligations, a national target for what we're going to do here in Norway. However, the Workers' Party shares with the Centre Party a concern for the EU's forestry policy. In our notes, we agree on that, at least in a good part of them. Today, we are promoting a proposal that gives an order – or would have given an order if it had been adopted, it is unfortunately not adopted – where we are asking that the government in the negotiations with the EU ensure that the full potential of the forest can be used in the green shift. The working party has a lot of faith in the forest as a renewable industry in Norway – we want it in wood, biofuels and a number of areas – and there the Workers' Party will work with the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e382	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e387	I would also like to thank the rapporteur for a good presentation at the beginning of this debate, and then I would like to thank the Committee for good cooperation. I look forward to a good debate today. Most of us here are members of the Energy and Environment Committee, and there are some things that have amazed me in this debate. These include: all the words and expressions we use that most people don't recognize or know what is. It may include carbon capture, carbon storage, greenhouse gases, climate allowances, non-quota sector, the Paris Agreement, 2-degree target, COP23, green certificates, LNG, CCS, NO X, CO 2, CO 2 fund, CO 2 management, IPCC, etc., etc. The list is certainly not complementary. I am very pleased with the new climate communication and the offensive initiative that Norway has. In a world where more and more focus is placed on man-made climate change, it is important that policies are implemented that work and address the major challenges. That's exactly what we're doing on Stortinget today. I am pleased that the parties on the Stortinget are involved in this climate promise, and there is no doubt that the Progress Party also has an offensive climate policy. But then it's important to pursue a climate policy that works and that is based on facts, and not a symbolism policy guided by emotions. There are many people who think that if you turn off the light or sort the trash in five different booths instead of three, that's what saves the climate. This is all right, but we are responsible for getting the most money back when we are going to have a climate cut. That's why I'm happy that we buy climate quotas and use flexibility mechanisms – when I say flexibility mechanisms, that means that we get the most back for the citizens' tax money. It's actually the people's tax dollars we spend in this room. The globe does not care whether the climate cuts come in Stavanger or Shanghai – for the globe it is important to cut as much as possible, not to spend as much money on cuts as possible. That's what's the difference in substance, because while the Progress Party cuts a lot and uses little, the left-hand parts will use a lot and cut little. I am also pleased that we have an offensive business life in the country, which is eager and motivated to join in this effort. Then it's important not to hit the legs under the industries that actually do. For example, can we get electric planes in the country if we destroy the market for airplanes? Who will invest in an electric plane if no one still flies in the future? It's through the market we get climate gains, and that's why I'm proud to be able to say that this government is the one that cuts the most. But private individuals and businesses also need help. Therefore, a number of public support schemes are in place to promote zero and low-emission solutions, such as: Enova, Climate change rate, schemes under Innovation Norway, etc. The government has further pointed to five areas of activity, which are: transport, where we have the world's largest investment in electric car and biofuels strengthening the role of Norway as a renewable energy supplier; development of low-emission technologies, including: clean production technology green shipping CO 2 management I am pleased that there will soon be a plan for CO 2 management, and I look forward to the treatment of it. But CO 2 management becomes a blow in the air without Norway's main industry: oil and gas. It's an industry we have to play along with to achieve the desired climate effect, not an industry that we talk down as yesterday's industry. We know that Europe is screaming for Norwegian gas and that Europe can cut its greenhouse gas emissions by six times Norway’s total emissions by switching from coal to gas. It goes without saying that Norwegian gas is Norway’s main contribution to climate change. I also want to remind you that this is an overall plan, which looks at the long lines and staggers out the course towards 2030 and 2050. The next step is negotiations with the EU. EU legislation has been adopted and a formal agreement is now to be negotiated. It is then important that Norway is able to go in broadly and not bound. The goal is to reduce global greenhouse gas emissions, and it will help Norway, both by cutting greenhouse gas emissions in Norway and by helping other countries cut their greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e443	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e449	A few days ago, we heard that the Progress Party will be the new environmental party. The Land Meeting of the Advance Party does not mention climate in one word. How should people in rural and urban areas feel that the Progress Party is coming up with new measures, when the national meeting does not mention the climate in one word? Or in another way: how is the Progress Party to become the new environmental party?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e454	Thank you for the question. Now it is important to distinguish between environment and climate. When the country meeting says we're going to be the best environmental party, it's just to show the good environmental policy we have – to clean up plastics in the sea, etc. But when we talk about climate policy, it's something I addressed here today – I had many good examples of the pulpit. It is only to present the good examples in the transport sector, electric car charging, etc. It is a pleasure to have an electric car kit that leads to even fewer cars paying tolls and that is free of charge in this country. This is an example of good climate policy on which the Progress Party is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e461	This weekend, the Progress Party had national meetings, and we could read in the media that the Vice-President of the Progress Party would not respond to whether he believes that climate change is man-made. What is the representative Meininger Saudland's view on this question?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e466	Thank you for a good question. I understand that it is the national meeting of the Progress Party that is the most interesting in this Chamber. I'm glad. To make it clear: in terms of climate, there is no doubt in my mind that there are man-made climate change, and that CO 2 contributes to it. Then I hope we can have many exciting debates on the climate policy of the Progress Party and on what we adopt at the country meeting in the future. I'm glad.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e480	The representative of Meininger Saudland believes that Norway’s main climate action is the export of the fossil energy source gas. Does the representative then believe that our second most important climate action is to export oil?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e485	I'm glad I didn't get another question about what the Progress Party decided at the national meeting. There I can tell you that we adopted an opinion that supports Norwegian oil and gas industries. It is absolutely true that Norway’s main contribution to a better climate is to export gas. It is also clear that oil has a much better climate effect than coal. This is why the Progress Party is concerned that we can replace coal production in Europe with solutions in Norway that have less emissions. I would have liked the representative from SV to participate in such a policy. I remember that when he and I were in Germany last year, it was among other things. the environmental party in Germany screaming for Norwegian gas, and it at least enjoys a Progress Party heart.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e494	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e499	The world has enormous climate challenges. There's no doubt about it. And we're late. I'm worried about how I'm going to be able to see my kids aged 12 and 10 in my eyes in 20 years. The Climate Communication should draw up a strategy, it is claimed, but it points to little of the solutions and measures. It's disappointing. Strategy is based on the views of the Centre Party on three things: establishing a common understanding of the situation, finding a goal and pointing the way forward. In climate change, the situation and objectives are good, they are ambitious enough, and they are broadly anchored nationally and internationally. That's the way to the goal that's the challenge. It is the concrete measures and instruments that are lacking to realise a climate-friendly society. It does not meet ambitious objectives; we must also be involved in vigorous conversion measures. As a rich oil producing country, the Centre Party believes that Norway has a special responsibility to take the lead in climate change. Therefore, the Centre Party is impatient to put in place a good system and a good infrastructure for industrial carbon capture and storage. Surprisingly, this does not respond to the message. The centre party is concerned that all Norwegian production should be as environmentally friendly and climate friendly as possible. Many measures need to be taken to develop the Norwegian society into a low-carbon society. Sustainable conversion offers great opportunities for the development of new Norwegian industry, technology and competences. We believe that much can and should be done in Norway, but are sceptical about implementing measures that in practice only shift the problem to another location, with higher emissions and fewer Norwegian jobs as a result. The centre party is in favour of international agreements and cooperation to implement climate change, but we also believe that we need a policy that means that we also need to take real climate responsibility at home. Both parts - there is no difference. The centre party has therefore been in favour of coordinating Norway’s and EU climate policy, but a negotiated outcome between Norway and the EU must be made known to the Stortinget, and the Stortinget must be free to assess whether Norway has earned an agreement on the basis of this. Nor does the Climate Communication take into account the need for a fundamental change of attitude to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Climate change is about reducing the total consumption of energy and materials, i.e. more economy and accuracy. Secondly, what we then need from energy and carbon must be renewable. The definition and recipe of the Centre Party is briefly summarised in order to achieve the climate objectives. This does not contradict the objective of maintaining value creation and well-being, but requires transformation and strong political leadership. Norway has a advantage in this transition as a rich forest country. All products produced on the basis of black carbon — the oil — may also be produced on the basis of the green renewable carbon. If we use the green carbon in the sea and forest, the net emissions of greenhouse gases will be reduced and stopped. The photosynthesis is amazing. It captures and stores CO 2 in trees and plants – and in the products we get from them. Norway’s potential lies in taking a leading position in the bioeconomy and in developing green carbon. At the same time, through EU legislation on greenhouse gas emissions and uptake from forestry and land use, Norway is at risk of having to reduce its yield. It worries the Center Party because it's the wrong climate policy. Forest is a fantastic resource. Forest is part of the climate solution – the better growth, the greater CO 2 uptake. Moreover, we are talking about circular economy in the correct sense of the word. Norway should therefore ensure that the action space is used in the design of the forest reference path — an action space created to avoid restrictions on the exploitation of forest resources. The centre party is also concerned that climate objectives should not be at the expense of the targets set by the Stortinget last year for increased food production. In a world with ever more mouths to saturation, all countries have a responsibility to ensure the greatest possible level of self-sufficiency. This does not conflict with the objectives of reducing climate emissions, for example: Norwegian meat production is among the world’s most climate-smart, and the Norwegian cow has become 40 pst. more climate friendly. The centre batch is concerned with the implementation of active measures to prevent carbon leakage from agriculture. One-sided Norwegian measures that reduce food production in Norway directly or indirectly by reducing the profitability of the primary industry will lead to increased import needs and decrease value creation. It's a policy the Center Party can't support. Furthermore, on a proposal from all the parties in the Chamber, the Centre Party is present. We believe that the climate noise requires interaction and that we pull this together. The centre party also hopes to support its proposals today. I'll bring it up to you with the proposals No. 37 to 43 and 70 to 71.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e530	The representative Ole André Myhrvold has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e537	We notice that the Center Party follows the plurality of the committee in order to reduce emissions by at least 40 pst. by 2030, an action we implement with the EU. This makes sense, it's good, and it's a wise approximation. At the same time, we find that the Central Party expresses skepticism to the EU several times. The natural question is: does the Centre see that the EU has a role that can be good for climate cooperation? And as a follow-up, we feel that the Workers' Party, through its comments, should not use the flexibility mechanisms, which the Centre Party wisely wants. Does the Central Party still see itself engaged in government cooperation with the Workers' Party, which in the event would significantly change our forestry policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e542	As I said in my introduction, the centre party for international cooperation is to resolve climate cooperation, including with the EU. But that doesn't mean it's not a dialogue. It's about reciprocity, and we look forward to a negotiated outcome with the EU before the Storting, and then we'll decide on the different measures there. A common objective of achieving the climate goals must be shared with the EU, and we must have that with the rest of the global society, if we do not achieve the climate goals. All countries must both implement measures and have ambitious targets.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e548	I'd like to start by commending the Center Party. I see them as constructive, especially as regards the ambitions of using biomass to reduce climate change emissions. It has a lot to do, and we have a lot of opportunities. Then it's okay that the Center Party is more impatient, and also that you're internationally oriented. That's good. We feel that the Center Party has really been in climate policy all the way. The centre parties the Left, Christian People's Party and the Center Party have been involved in all climate agreements so far, supported by climate laws and will use the opportunities, including cost-effective measures. But now a new situation has arisen on the red-green side, as the Labour Party makes a salty and will not participate in the international commitment cooperation, especially in Europe. The question is whether the Central Party really sees itself as most useful in cooperating with the blue-green parties in order to ensure also food production and the representative is concerned about putting the forest's opportunities into practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e553	The centre party is committed to cooperating with all parties engaged in the achievement of the climate objectives. In this case, we see that we have found together with the government parties in relation to forest and food. But as the Aukrust representative said in advance, the Workers' Party also supports a part of this forestry policy. So now you're going to have to negotiate, and then we're going to see what the result is going to be. We have to exploit the space of action as much as we can, and the centre party is concerned with flexibility in that regard.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e558	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e563	Today, for the first time, we are dealing with a climate notification totally out of touch with concrete national targets and ambitions and without a single new measure or instrument to reduce emissions. The government claims that most of the emission reductions up to 2030 are to be taken in Norway. Without new measures and instruments, I am afraid this will be the climate change policy disaster of the time. What will remain after this government is ambitious ambitions, beautiful words and countless promises of emission cuts. It won't save the climate. At the same time as the government delivers the Climate Communication to the Stortinget with no goal and no meaning, heavy oil expansions are fired with gas power and redundancy of greenhouse gases – now the last time Johan Castberg has been developed in the Barents Sea. The expansion has not been approved by Stortinget, but the oil directors have already signed contracts for several billion kroner. Report. St. 41 for 2016–2017 on climate policy is certainly the answer. Then I wonder what questions the government asked itself. Perhaps it was: How can Norway continue to appear ambitious without doing anything? Previous climate announcements and climate settlements have also not been perfect, and I have criticised them myself. But most people have given the environment important insights. They have given Norway rainforest bets, bans on oil fires, stepping-up plan for renewable energy research, as well as agreement that private cars in the large urban areas will not grow. They have had concrete consequences for subsequent decisions in Norwegian policy. It was the national climate targets for 2020 that enabled the Stortinget to intervene in the oil expansion in Utsira. The environment was apparently a topic of discussion at the recent National Meeting of the Right. Unfortunately, the proposals that could have further fluctuated the electric car sales and ensured that we had phased out the sale of new fossil cars were not adopted. Right-hand drive short-term policy and planning and leave the job to the government partner Left. On its side, the Left has incomprehensiblely chosen to adopt the Contentless Climate Communication of the Right Party Government. In order to prevent several lost years in climate policy, SV has proposed a series of measures to reduce Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions in the coming years – a series of measures that will all contribute to meeting our climate objectives. Here's a clever suggestion SV challenges the government parties to join the Stortinget today. Norway has been the world leader in the development of an electric car policy that works. 37 pst. of all new passenger cars sold in Norway in March were electric cars. We have not received a corresponding switch in the van market. If we are to move ahead with the sale of electric goods cars, we should introduce a full CO 2 tax into the purchase fee for light goods cars that run on fossil fuels. The principle can be adopted in the current treatment and implemented in the State budget for 2019. The hearing would set out a plan for Norwegian public transport to be fossil-free by 2025, but that plan called for the Stortinget already in 2016. Plans without concrete instruments are unfortunately not worth much. Here we can make demands in public tenders. In industry, we can phase out fossil oil firing for heating purposes by notifying a future ban, according to the model of the work we have done in connection with construction, which is being crowned with victory. And where did the demands of the oil industry — Norway’s biggest climate sins come from? Soon, the Stortinget will deal with Johan Castberg. Development will increase Norwegian emissions by more than 300000 tonnes of CO 2 per year, well over 100 000 private cars emit annually. The oil from expansion will generate large emissions when burned abroad. So practical, then, that the climate communication has no concrete climate ambitions for the oil industry. If you really want to look for concrete targets in the climate communication, it is to have an agreement with the EU on the purchase of climate cuts elsewhere — rather than to convert Norway. Purchases of foreign emissions have been the king’s idea of Norwegian climate policy for several years. Few other positions illustrate the power of oil over Norwegian climate policy like this. My expectations for the Progress Party are, unfortunately, limited, but the Right and Left actually have to tighten up. With this I address the proposals No. 44 to 58 and 65 to 69.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e599	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e606	The representative Haltbrecken is happy to use large words, such as today’s “unisoned slaughter” and “havari”. He has also used large words in the past, such as: ‘temporal gastric lavage’ and ‘total lack of clear commitments to implement the necessary climate action’. When are the last two quotes from? Well, it was in 2007, when his own party participated in presenting a climate announcement. The representative repeated the same in 2012 when, as head of the Swedish Union for the Protection of Nature, the second climate communication from the Red-Greens. So this is pretty common to hear from Lars Haltbrecken. But what has happened since then? Well, we've got a measure of halving emissions from transport. We have an electric car share of 30 pst. We're now using 18 billion. kr more, in addition to the ambition of the climate agreement, to Enova. We're using 3 billion. kr annually on the climate and forest activity. Does the representative at all have it to say that things are now at least better than when his own party was in government?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e613	It is quite correct – and I also said that in my post – that I have criticised previous climate announcements and past climate settlements, but by reviewing them, we see that at the time a number of new measures were actually put in place to cut emissions. I would also like to remind the representative Bru that under the red-green government emissions went down by over 1.5 million tonnes after all. Over the period of government, emissions fell by less than 100000 tonnes. It says something about the difference in where you actually rate in the political parties. The representative, Bru, says that there is a target in the communication of halving emissions from the transport sector. Yes, then I hope Right-wing votes for our proposal today to actually confirm this in the form of a set target.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e620	We know that SV will cut domestically as much as possible, with high costs and lean effect. It's to the point of being honest, I really have more sense of it than of the Labour Party approach, which is in a way that you want to have in bag and bag. At the same time, SV will cut oil and gas production, which can send a bill of up to $50,000 to each of the inhabitants of this country. So with SV's scheme, we have a non-hosted bill. Who in the country does SV want to send their climate bill to?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e625	The world is facing very serious challenges. We know that we have to change. Those who are early out and convert their industry will also be the ones who serve on this in the long run. By focusing only on quota purchases and paying other countries to get a clean and efficient industry, we will get an industry in our own country that is going to go after, and that will have major problems on the world market in a few years' time, when the world is asking for zero-emission goods. Therefore, we believe it is important to shift Norwegian industry away from the oil and gas industry, so that we ensure good income for this country also in the future, and that we do not have an industry that hangs behind and loses competition internationally, as the Progress Party unfortunately points out.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e630	The representative halter talks about countless blue-green promises, but no goals. What's right is not so easy to explain. I am concerned about the practicalities of the policy. When SV put in government, a Norwegian biofuel business was taken out of production — really on the upstream side, on the finish line — by changing the user fee, so that there was no profitability in that production. By doing so, we have undergone a major transformation, such as: The stoppage is called for, within public transport. Then I want to go to a domestic, simple example: in Uppland, enough biogas is produced to fill in all buses operating on a route. SV has been in position in Uppland and Hedmark for 15 years without having managed to get biogas on a single bus. Can the Haltbreak explain what it takes for a local to get to what you want?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e639	Now it's the Storting climate announcement we're going to discuss today. What is important is that the Storting actually facilitates a biogas investment and makes it more profitable than for example. the use of natural gas. SV has made proposals in Stortinget about a biogas bet that allows us to put it into use around the country, including in bus services in Oppland and Trundelag. In Trøndelag, a larger biogas plant is now being built – and with SV’s support – that will be able to supply biogas to the entire Nordlandsbahn and reduce emissions from diesel traffic there.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e645	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e650	As a representative of the Left, I am very proud that we have participated in all climate agreements that have taken place in this Chamber – even today. We have also participated in the adoption of a climate law in this room, which requires 40 pst. cut in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, the same as we are now facilitating: to conclude an agreement with the EU that we should cut 40 pst in cooperation. of climate emissions up to 2030. The international commitments are important, but we also suggest that we take as much as possible in Norway. And speaking of being offensive, through the Jeleya negotiations and after the Left has come into government, we have therefore promised this message further to have ambitions to cut 50 pst. in the transport sector in Norway by 2030. Transport represents the largest share of emissions in the non-quota sector. In fact, no other country in the world has such offensive and big ambitions in transport. Norway has also said through this message that we should take a leading role internationally in cutting, but also in converting, about the contribution from the representative Haltbrecken. It's important to go in the green direction. Norway is the world leader in switching passenger car traffic. It has so far taken 15 years, from the Minister of Transport of the Left in Bondevik II government, Torild Skogsholm, established the electric car policy we have today. Now we see that the green shift in shipping can bring us down to ten years – in terms of the decisions we are making here today, that we will have emission-free world heritage fjords by 2026. So we get those shifts down to shorter and shorter intervals, and that's very important to drive that technology. Bioenergy is important, but also hydrogen. The fact that today we're saying we're going to have a Nordic hydrogen strategy is also a long step forward. It's strategically very important because we in the Nordic region have comparative advantages that we can take advantage of to actually become the leading hydrogen region around the world – but we can start with being it in Europe first. Then we can also go on to talk about carbon capture, storage and transport, and this is where, in transport and storage, large Norwegian contributions can lie. Fortum and other Nordic actors need to convert steel and aluminium production and can use hydrogen, but Fortum also takes out that technology in Europe related to the waste industry, which also needs to be cut. And it's just these point emissions that are the great opportunity to cut. It also states that we should have sectorial plans and ambitions, and the Green Competitiveness Report, which was presented six months ago, is also a long step on the way to demonstrating the opportunities to cut but also to convert an increasingly greener Norwegian industry. When the Workers' Party is talking about bloody seriousness and we are going to take climate policy home, it can just be a blood-red affair for Norwegian industry, and that is what we have to take care of. We are not going to charge the industry too quickly, with too high charges — just in fear of pushing it out of Norway. This is what we have seen in the solar industry, which disappeared a little too quickly out of Norway, and there is also a challenge in moving forward. We're also going to use CO 2 charges. It is an important levy to put in place in relation to the non-quota sector. This is also where we need to establish a CO 2 fund. As far as fossil-free public transport is concerned, it is important in the future to ensure that we get the fuels that we can put on, but also the competences of the public purchasers at different levels. This applies to bus offers, and to home nurses, who must also switch to emission-free cars and other means of transport. With regard to the flexibility associated with participating in cooperation with Europe, the Mongstad gas power plant is an example of the major challenge of taking too much risk and paying too much for it, without getting a single emission cut. Together with other countries, we can make bilateral agreements to contribute to our technology, competence and research in other European countries, in order to take effective emission reductions there as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e677	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e682	The left hand side used a string shift with another game instead of attacking the Working Party. It was said that the Workers' Party had done a salto in climate policy. Well, by itself, you know others – if there are anyone who has done a salto in this policy, it's left. Under the heading that all emissions must be ‘taken at home’ — on the Left’s website — they stated at the time of the submission of the Climate Change Communication that it is fully feasible to achieve the 2030 climate objectives without the use of allowances. They have now joined the government with the forefront of Norwegian climate policy. We see what it's done to the left. We in the Workers' Party, however, say the same thing as we did before the election. In the light of the violent attacks by the Right and the Advance Party against the Workers' Party in this matter: How do the Left think they stand, considering what they themselves promised the voters in September 2017?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e689	At least the left has not made a salt. We've set up a floor to cut. There's no contradiction between that and doing more, and we have absolute possibilities to do that. It is surprising that the Labour Party, which is for the EU – we had a debate before Easter on contributing to renewable energy in Europe – will not be involved in the commitments towards the EU now. It is difficult to understand why the Workers' Party is doing this salt in relation to these objectives, and what obligations one then imposes on an industry – but also on its citizens – that is to participate in a transformation. We see in the electric car policy: it has taken 15 years to get there that we have a new car sale where there are soon several electric cars being sold. It takes time, but it also does the conversion of charges. And here's the big question of the Labour Party's policy: when you put so much domestic commitment, what are the taxes that have to be set up, and what technology is there to trigger, that's going to take the big leaps?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e698	The Norwegian authorities have signed the Paris Agreement, which commits us to CO 2 emissions that will limit global warming to well below 2 degrees. CCS is the only technology we know that can provide a significant cut in industrial emissions. Before the Left joined the government, the big ambitions were to complete the CCS projects started in Norway. Last year's budget put projects more or less on hold, and in the climate communication, CCS is almost not mentioned in a word. Has the Left given up getting a pass to complete the projects that can significantly cut emissions from the industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e706	The left has certainly not done so. This notification is mainly about the non-quota sector. CCS technology is not so relevant for the transport sector, for example: – neither for the construction sector. On the other hand, it is very relevant for the waste sector. There are very many pipes from combustion plants around Europe that need CCS technology, i.e. for carbon capture and storage. There will be other messages in the future and other ways in which we will have the opportunity to discuss how much money we will spend, for what purposes, in order to realise a Norwegian, great industrial opportunity for carbon capture and storage. The revised national budget will be the first opportunity to address it. We are also going to negotiate the state budget for 2019 and look at the possibilities ahead to put on, so we have not given up our ambitions for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e713	The left and SV have had very good cooperation on climate policy for many years. I believe that I heard from the representative, Mr. Kjeseth, some indications that the Left would like a climate settlement this time as well. I have to say, I've passed a little bit of a house. I have not received such invitations before, but we are very happy to sit down at the negotiating table with the Left to get a better – and responsible – climate policy for this country. That is why I would challenge the representative, Mr Kjeseth, to vote in favour of two of the SV's loose proposals today, namely the one where we are asking the government to take the initiative for a new climate communication and a new climate settlement, and – the other – the one where we are asking the government to set up a national climate target to cut emissions from the transport sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e720	When it comes to cooperation with SV, I think we should continue it – and have great ambitions. And there's also a lot of possibilities. I feel that SV is now on the move to the left in talking about green conversion and about taking on a technology that offers opportunities for a green industry in Norway. Therefore, I am surprised that SV will not be involved in international commitments and cooperation, particularly in relation to the EU. With regard to the concrete challenges of SV, I believe there is an ambitious goal here to cut 50 pst. in the transport sector by 2030. It's extremely offensive. We see that the electric car policy has taken 15 years in the case of passenger cars. Now we're going to phase in the heavy-duty vehicles. We're going to get all of the buses on zero-emission fuel. It's offensive. I encourage the representative Haltbrecken to knock on the door. [[The President clubs.]] There was no one who prevented SV from joining in on any conciliation here. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e731	The President must knock on the table [[muttering in the hall]] The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e738	Let me start by thanking the case spokesperson and everyone else for the work done with this message. It's quite a lot of work, quite a lot of comments and a lot of suggestions, and it's a work we've spent quite a lot of time on, with both committee missions and mini-seminars, so we feel it's quite thoroughly debated. It's important, all the time the climate change target is something that we're all a few about is one of the greatest challenges of our time. There are things that happen to us all -- changing the weather, more flooding, more race, crops that hit wrong other places in the world, species that disappear. We have a common responsibility to minimize those changes, and it's also about the responsibility we have for each other in the global community. But let's go to what this message really is about. This climate communication follows the work we are doing to meet the Paris obligation in cooperation with the EU. We are connected to the quota market, and now we also say that we want to work with the EU to achieve the common objectives we have in the non-quota sector. This message is a mandate for negotiations with the EU on how to achieve the Paris objectives and that we can achieve them. It's important, all the time we have a global climate work that's at stake, and where we need someone who's taking on the ladder to be with us and make sure that we get a commitment to bring down the Norwegian and the common greenhouse gas emissions. In recent years, there has been a great deal in climate policy. Much has been done in the negotiations on the state budget, where things have been drawn in a more climate-friendly direction. A lot has happened in the national transport plan, and a lot has happened by putting in place a climate law. Emissions go down. Sales of zero emission solutions go up. This is about getting a good foothold in climate policy, where it costs to pollute, where one has a price of emissions that pays off taking the environmentally friendly choices, where Norway has gone to the front to focus on technology development by putting in place more and better zero emission solutions and, in particular, by strengthening Enova. Instead of being like big politicians who point to the project, we can make sure that this is done in a professional and good way, and that we are strengthened in the work on better climate solutions. These are the main lines of this big message, and that's from the Christian People's Party staring at her and mine she's good. This is a floor, and it builds on the climate promise. There are many who have spent time in today's debate on a part of the issue of flexibility mechanisms. To that I would say two things. First, we're going to connect to a system and to a European regulatory framework based on the ability to contribute, and where the different countries' resources are included in that calculation. Norway is a country with large resources. We have a lot to contribute. At the same time, we are a long-term country with important primary industries, and it is important that we can build on those values, as other national targets also establish, when we are to achieve the national climate targets and reduce our emissions in cooperation with the EU. I would also like to point out that both in comments and in all the work that has been done with this message, it is clear that as much as possible of greenhouse gas emissions should be cut in Norway. The other opposition party can both believe and not believe in that goal, but it is something that one stands firm on, and as the Christian People's Party has shown, we are willing to take action to do in the work that happens every day – not just in this message. It's something I'm ready to follow up. There are many things you could spend more time in this message – switching in the maritime sector, where we have everything to do with the Norwegian players who are world leaders, how the CO 2 tax is an important tool, but where a carbon leak in primary industries, fisheries and agriculture needs to be taken care of, or that Norway needs to use the space for action with our neighbouring countries in the LULUCF negotiations when they are working to get this in place in the EU. I'm not going to spend time on it right now, but I'm going to end up with a quotation from a Swedish social democrat that I think has come with a good rule in politics. Days of foreigners said: ‘Our task as politicians is to build the dance floors so that individuals can dance their own lives.’ He didn't say it in bookcases, but that's what I found when I was going to introduce myself to the debate today. I think it is a good principle, and it also applies in climate policy. Our task is not to tell the single actors how to dance their lives, how to create jobs in a long country. Our job is to make a good floor where it pays to dance the environmentally friendly dance. That's what the Christian People's Party has done in the last four years. It is a policy that the Christian People's Party has been responsible for since we were the first government to take care of the environment in the government platform many years ago. That is the work we have continued in this message, and I am proud of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e762	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e767	The representative well ended up in a discussion with himself on the platform, that one was still an opposition party, but one has also said that one is a climate party, and not least an aid party. The Christian People's Party has now been supporting one third of the cuts in climate aid, so it may not seem very credible, but they have also been in agreement with the government for less ambitious measures than the rest of the opposition. So I'm actually going to have a very simple question: What is the Christian People's Party's most important climate issue this spring? We have now dealt with waste reporting, we have dealt with climate strategy, and we are waiting for revision, which is due on 15 May. What is the main Norwegian policy going to see from the climate effort for the Christian People's Party this spring?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e774	There are two things about this debate that I think are quite alarming. First of all, this is a debate that reminds me a little of the fairy tale of the man who sat and did not listen to what the man who came to visit said, and called out «Axe shaft» because he was sure that it was the question that was going to be asked. Now it's a little bit like that, that everyone sits together and comes up with their loose proposals, and throws them out, because the individual measures that they think are the most important. And then there will be some kind of competition in that the number of proposals, which are not distributed, is the same as ambitions. I don't think that's a good climate policy. Somebody thinks this is going to be a big spring cleaning of a good one, but that skill we're forced to take on every single thing, in every single committee, and not only we're on the Energy and Environment Committee. This big message, which we are now discussing, is about how, together with the European Union, we are going to achieve our climate commitments. That's what we're going to answer, and that's what I've been doing in the processing of this message, and I want to follow it up through many actions – not just through one important action.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e781	We are several who have noticed a new direction at the Christian People's Party, which has traditionally been concerned with Norwegian food production. It surprises me, therefore, that the Christian People's Party no longer agrees with the proposals of the Centre Party that reduced climate emissions should not be at the expense of the agricultural sector and Norwegian food production. Is this a new direction from the Christian People's Party in agricultural policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e786	If I have understood correctly how the Stortinget works, it is that the current decision in Stortinget, it is in the Stortinget, regardless of whether a well not to enter open doors with rambows in all the staging messages that come after it. I feel that the objective that global climate policy should not go beyond primary industries and food production is something that is established in Norwegian policy, that is something that the Christian People's Party insists on, that is something that is even stated in the Paris Declaration, and that is also a basis for the relationship we want to have with the EU. That's one of the reasons why we have flexibility mechanisms. That's also why I think this message is good, and that the job that the Christian People's Party has done to strengthen her, among other things. When it comes to forest, to ensure that people can work and bow in our entire country, is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e793	If the Christian People's Party is willing to ensure concrete measures for emissions reduction, as Mr Storhaug says, why do they vote against virtually all the concrete proposals for emissions reduction?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e798	I believe that I and the representative Haltbrecken have had a quite different setting for what this message should be. He has put in a premise that this should be the big spring cleaner where one would vote for the most possible new measures, where it was about making the competition for specific measures, while I have thought that this is rather about determining what is the floor of Norwegian climate policy, where we can ensure the transition that we are doing. The most important thing then is to ensure that there is a proper pricing of carbon, so it costs to defile and pay to choose environmentally friendly, and that one contributes to the good transition that is taking place — among others. when one works well with Enova and secures good promises, so that one gets a real change and a technology development. These are things that the Christian People's Party has followed up in every single state budget where we have our hands on the wheel. It has contributed to the fact that there has been a change in the pace of Norwegian climate policy since the centre again had an influence on him. I'm proud of that, because it's been a change of pace from the things that happened when SV put in the government offices, and things happened too late – and too little.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e805	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e810	Climate policy is rapidly abstract and complicated. It is about emission targets in relation to some reference path, allowances and non-quota sectors, transfer of allowances and an emission target in 2030 that no one knows what meaning for tonnes of emissions from the territory of Norway. This makes a lot of people shut down. This linguistic fog covers an unpleasant truth. The climate notification and setting reveals that Norway should do everything in its power not to cut emissions. We really want to cut as much as possible in Norway. The government is doing everything it can to escape. Politics is wanting, but politicians don't want to, and that's what they've done. Then congratulates the Right and the Labour Party on a fabulously successful policy for the past 10-20 years. But in addition to all the bad, i.e. the absence of concrete measures by the government, there are some good signs in today's setting, and that is that we are beginning to see some new notes from the Workers' Party. It may indicate that Norway’s traditional largest party is finally starting to leave the Stoltenberg line. If a 50-year-old historian reads the Storting climate strategy, as described in this setting, I think he will ask himself: ‘How and why did Norwegian politicians succeed in making such a simple theme so complicated and foolish that they didn’t get the people with them?’ For the climate problem is really very simple: Any child – alive, and especially unborn – will understand that it’s stupid to change the chemical composition of the air we breathe in. The little child will also understand that it is stupid to change the water in the sea, which covers 70 pst. of the earth, and that everyone has to do their part of the job. Now that we know that fossil fuels change the composition of the air and the ocean, we should just pick better alternatives. Just as it is fundamentally wrong to empty a bag of plastic garbage or a barrel of arsenic right in the sea, it is fundamentally wrong to fill the atmosphere and sea with greenhouse gases, which are poisoned for the future of our children. Therefore, the Green Party, in part with other parties, promotes a number of proposals that could be addressed in Norwegian climate policy. In particular, I would like to make five proposals which could rapidly change this: Norwegian CO2 emissions shall be only 21 million tonnes by 2030. That's 60 pst. from 1990, the same as in Sweden. Such a level of ambition is necessary for all countries to comply with the Paris Agreement, which we have signed. If the proposal had been adopted, Norway would have received a clear and simple emission budget to which all sectors and actors could relate. Norway shall be completely fossil-free by 2040. It means, in practice, that even the Greens are so realistic and pragmatic that they accept destroying our children's future with dangerous greenhouse gas emissions for 21 more years. We will have stopped in the 4th concession round and allocation of new exploration areas on Norwegian base by starting a gradual and profitable phase-out of Norwegian petroleum activity, which is the largest polluter. We demand that all large point emissions of greenhouse gases be cleaned by 2030. By providing these enterprises with a twelve-year deadline, we take good account of predictability. We want to reduce meat consumption in Norway. It is high time that the Storting acknowledged that this is a problem and took action. The historian who will be digging through Norwegian climate policy in 2080 in 2018 will see that the majority of this room unfortunately used the left hand to cut emissions and the right hand to create them. But it is fully possible to create a Norwegian economy that has a genuine green growth, where we turn investment and innovation towards more value creation and more well-being, while at the same time reducing emissions rapidly in all sectors. Denmark, Finland and Sweden — especially Sweden — are doing this now, and have done so every year since the 2000s. Norway is going the opposite way of its neighbours. That's because the majority in this hall will, work for it and vote for it. This clearly underlines that Norway is now part of the problem, not part of the solution of the global climate change fight. Unfortunately, the climate strategy we are adopting here today does not give any real new direction. With that, I still take up all our suggestions today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e843	The representative Per Espen Stoknes has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e850	It would have been interesting to know – but we might know that later in the debate – whether the Workers' Party shares the reality description The Green Party came with Norwegian climate policy. Most of all, it probably hit the Workers' Party. Red-green politicians have even admitted that some of their problems have been that you set goals and then push them as the goal approaches. Therefore, I wonder whether the representative Stoknes agrees that commitments are good and that obligations that can be met with sanctions are good, which is part of the framework we are entering into with the EU. Does the representative agree that this is good?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e858	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e863	The Green Party takes on the job of cleaning up Norwegian climate policy, and will, as I understand it, lay down both the car and the cows. However, the main contribution to emissions is – again – Norwegian oil and gas. The industry is often being hanged out to be the problem, and the Greens have, of course, been calling for the closure of the industry in a few years. One job in this industry must have been replaced by 13 jobs in e.g. Travel life in order to maintain the same income of society. The Green Party chooses all its top shelf cuts – not in terms of results, but very high in terms of costs. How will the Green Party finance this, and can the representative tell us what kind of welfare state we will live in in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e870	There were big questions and many themes in 1 minute. I'll do my best. If we look closely at our neighbouring countries, we see prosperous countries with high well-being, well-functioning democracy and good economy, but they work very well without an oil and gas sector. In fact, they are more innovative, more innovative, in areas that improve resource productivity in the economy in such a way that they bring both resource consumption and emissions down and create greater values in the economy. Norwegian oil and gas industries are important for the next 15 years by continuing to supply gas, among others. to England and Germany. When we look a little bit further forward than 2030, we'll see that England, which has already cut its gas consumption by 30 pst, is going to cut it by another 70 pst. during a 20-year period. Germany is also going to cut it. Therefore, that gas is not needed beyond the 2030s.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e879	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e884	Today, we will probably be discussing a climate report. It is not the first time such a document is created. Since 1990, changing governments have been delivering plans, and the Stortinget has discussed and adopted strategies, messages and settlements in response to climate change. But despite all these decisions, strategies, comparisons and reports, Norway is releasing more CO2 today than we did in 1990. Then there's something that doesn't work. When the first action plan arrived in 1990, targets for 2010 were discussed. Large emissions were to be cut and major measures taken by 2010. Then came the 2000s and the red-green government. Suddenly the year was no longer 2010, but 2020. Also, the ambitions were high, and the deadline was ready. Now we are in 2018. We're not talking about 2020 anymore, now it's 2030. The goals and ambitions are constantly being pushed on, just enough for the deadline to work far enough away. This kind of climate policy threatens our planet. The global temperature can increase by five degrees if we continue to burn as much fossil energy as today. Five degrees is a lot. It means a future that climate models cannot predict what will look like. What we know is that species eradication will escalate, sea levels will increase, there will be more extreme weather and drought, large rural areas will become uninhabitable, and the flow of climate refugees will increase. So we're running out of time to stop climate change, minus 20 years, roughly. At best, what we can do is limit climate change and avoid temperature rising by more than two degrees. If we are to ensure this, there is a need for major measures — including emissions reductions in Norway, not just cut-offs. It requires an enormous transformation of the oil industry, that we use the skills of the skilled workers and engineers, in the new, renewable industry. We must also stop subsidising oil exploration. Only through that can we get 12 billion. kr to create new, environmentally friendly industry. Red will today support many good opposition proposals. At the same time, we must note that the greatest force for real change outside the walls of the Great Britain is by today's majority on the Bigton. Today the NRK arranges the large plastic cleaning day, on Saturday it is the national beach cleaning day. Most people will do a lot to save the planet, both from watershed and from climate change, but unfortunately the government is following and making it impossible for us to reach the Paris agreement. It's disappointing in our view. We don't lack knowledge of what to do, not technology or will out there among the people most. What we lack is the political power to act on the really big issues. We can't build the railways on good days, we can't let the NRK arrange the big land-flow day, we can't convert the Norwegian industry to hard work, or we can't wait for the oil companies themselves to decide to leave the oil. Nor can we allow sports teams and associations to take care of the overall upgrading of Norwegian hydropower plants, which would be the country’s largest ever action. It is this type of major project that we must jointly implement, which must be given priority, and which must be adopted by the people elected here in the United Kingdom. And it has to follow money and resources, not just goals, ambitions and deadlines that are pushed year after year, further into a climate-threatening future. What we see, fortunately, is that most people want to contribute everything they can in their everyday lives. Then the question is whether the elected representatives will follow with necessary decisions, money and action. That's the target.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e909	The government – at that time from the Right and the Advance Party – presented last year the Climate Strategy Communication, which showed how Norway will meet the 2030 target in cooperation with the EU. In retrospect – and I am pleased – the blue-green government parties today, together with the Christian People's Party, have strengthened the strategy, among others. by including climatic points from the Jeløya platform. The blue-green government is pursuing an offensive and targeted climate policy. The starting point for the notification was to cut non-quota emissions by 40 pst. by 2030. In line with the Jeleia platform, the government's clear ambition is to take as much of this commitment as possible nationally. This is a clear strengthening compared to previous commitments. At the same time, we want to have the opportunities of the EU ETS and the possibility of direct agreement with EU Framework countries. The Climate Strategy Communication shows that if we were to use the access to use allowances from the EU ETS, we would have an emission gap of 20-25 million tonnes. At the same time, it shows a greater potential for cuts. The actions of the Directorate-General for the Environment have been investigated can provide a cut of around 35 million tonnes. In March 2015, the Storting agreed to work for joint fulfilment with the EU. This is an important and correct step for Norway. The climate problem cannot be resolved without international cooperation, and an EU agreement does not prevent us from over-achieving commitments or setting their own, more ambitious, national targets. A key instrument of the Climate Strategy Communication is the CO 2 fee for all non-quota emissions. In the Jeløya platform, we state that we want a fee of 500 kroner, which should gradually be escalated. Where fees are not sufficient or appropriate, we will use other instruments. The government will use public acquisitions to stimulate demand for products produced by low-emission technologies and continue Enova to support low-emission technology conversion in all sectors. In the Jeleya platform, the government is raising ambitions. We're going to halve the emissions from the transport sector, i.e. a significant increase from what was in the climate communication, where the ambition was 35 pst. Now it's going to be raised to 50 pst. We are going to have sectoral ambitions in other areas, and it is not just about taking responsibility for our own emissions, it is also about moving ahead and developing the low-carbon technologies and green businesses of the future. Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions shall decrease. The climate strategy shows how we can fulfil a commitment in cooperation with the EU. It ensures that we get emissions down in line with the agreement, while not imposing any restrictions on how much cut we can implement nationally. The whole purpose of this case is that we now need an agreement with the EU. It gives us a commitment – although we have our own, more ambitious goals, it is that if we do not achieve them, we will still have a guarantee that we will have to participate in emissions cuts elsewhere in Europe. There is a lot of talk about buying allowances from the ETS sector. Now we need an agreement with the EU. Then we have to find out if we're going to be able to buy allowances from the quota sector, and then there's going to be a decision by 2020 to make use of it. As the government adds up to this, we now get this decision with the climate communication. Then we have hopes of reaching an agreement with the EU in the course of the year, and then the government will present a new plan for how to achieve our climate goals. At that time, the level of ambition is that we should take as much of the emissions cuts in Norway as possible, but it is nevertheless important to have that flexibility – both that we have the opportunity to buy from the quota-based sector and that we have the obligation to contribute elsewhere if we were not to achieve our own objectives in line with the agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e933	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e938	Ola Elvesuen says this is a strengthening of past commitments. It is with respect not to report, it is a weakening of our obligations – it is even so that we do not now have a clear and clear commitment, and that is what happens under Ola Elvestuen as climate minister. It must be painful for the Elvesu to see an overall environmental movement rage against what Left has achieved, and it is clear that the Left has signed up to a competition to be an environmental party in Norway. They were in that competition before the elections, when Ola Elvestuen said: ‘It is important that all those who are going to take part in the green shift know the target to which they are going to relate and how much they are going to cut in time. That the government has not been clear about this is a significant weakness in the notification. This must be corrected by the Left.’ Now Ola Elvestuen is the State Council itself. Does he think that the Left has managed to correct all the'significant weaknesses' he pointed out before the election?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e948	I can refer to the Jeleya platform. We need 50 pst. reduction in the transport sector, it is a significant strengthening of the level of ambition we have had in the past. When we've said we're going to maintain the benefits of a zero-emission vehicle until 2021, it's a significant reinforcement of what's been in the past. With the efforts to develop for green shipping, there is a significant strengthening of what has been done in the past, and with the efforts on both public transport and rail that the government is behind, it is. In addition, we've increased the Enova bet by over 1 billion. kr in the last few years. I can go into area by area. Then there's the system strategy at work. As pointed out earlier, we have had many objectives in Norway that have not been followed up. Now, with the commitment and agreement with the European Union, we must implement what we agree on. There's nothing wrong with having our own, more ambitious, national targets. It has several countries within the EU, and Norway may also have it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e955	That's the new talk we're hearing from the Left. The summary of the answer is that no, the message has not been significantly better than it was when the government presented it. Now Ola Elvestuen says we'll take as much as we can at home. But ‘as much as possible’ is not a scientific objective. Now it's up to Siv Jensen to decide what the government can do. It would have been easier if the left said it as it was; that they said something else now than before the election. Then Ola Elvesuen can admit that what he said before the election is something other than what he is now saying in Stortinget, and that it is because he has lost internal negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e961	No parties on the Stortinget in recent years have driven climate policy more forward in Norway than the Left has done, and we continue to do so in government. I referred to the additions that are agreed on, and I pointed out how to get a commitment by agreeing with the EU. It guarantees that, even if the Workers' Party should once again be in government in the future, they must also follow the same commitment, and we are in a common European good. Then I and others are going to work to get us to go further, and it has to be defined forward towards 2020. There's a plan about how we're going to achieve our own commitments. But there is no doubt that there has been a strengthening of climate policy, that there is a strengthening of climate policy, and that we are about to have a completely different systematic approach than we have had in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e968	There have been many great words in the hall today, and many will take credit. Self-crust should be listened to, it usually comes from the heart, and it indicates that there is an involvement in the matter at least. With regard to strategy, the State Council of Ola Elvesuen has previously pointed to the need for carbon capture and storage as part of the Norwegian commitments. The government of which Elvesuen is part has cut off the three CO2 capture and storage projects we have in Norway. The question is: why is CO2 capture and storage not mentioned in the Climate Action Communication as part of the strategy, and can the Council of State now say something about whether the government intends to continue financing the CCS projects available?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e977	Why it has not been mentioned, almost those who submitted the message have to respond to it. But I assume that it is primarily about the non-quota sector and the obligations we now want to have with the EU. Otherwise, there is a commitment in this budget to the climate programme and research on CCS. At TCM, the test center at Mongstad, there's a stake. Also for the three projects, funds have been transferred from last year, which is continuing this year. When it comes to the big question, the government will come back with a case about CCS and CCS in the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e984	I have to make a comment on Elvestuen's response to the representative Myhrvold on why CCS has been omitted. The electrician said that the people who sent the message must respond. The electrician could take responsibility and provide an additional message for this message and included it there. When the climate message was presented last year, the Left said the following in a press release: ‘Left will be the choice to strengthen the climate message when it is addressed in the Storting after the election.’ At the time, the Left was fully in line with the SV in the criticism of the climate communication. They also said, ‘We lack concrete action and targets for the various sectors, so that we can bring about a greener transition to Norway.’ [[...]] After all, it's emission cut that counts for the climate, so my question is, how much emission cut has Left got in place, as you promised the voters?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1001	Then I have to bring the numbers: 50 pst. reduction in the transport sector is one of them. It is difficult to quantify now what a commitment to green shipping can lead to, but action in the area by region will lead to a reduction in emissions. So to the question of an additional message: I thought it was not right to make an additional message now. Now this case lies in Stortinget, and we get a decision. So we need to get an agreement with the EU. Through the Jeløia platform, we agree that we will present a separate plan after agreement with the EU. Then we know what the framework is for what we're going to do, and we're going to have a separate plan on how we're going to achieve our goals by 2030.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1008	State Council Elvesuen is glittering to talk about ambitions and to investigate. In Oslo, we have a binding sectorial climate budget. That means we're counting CO2 as you count money, year after year. The measurement and reporting of non-conformities takes place and discrepancies have consequences. Cities around the world have noticed this and see that it can be a new way to pursue climate policy. When the government submits the notification and the government parties in the vote make proposals, one point is taken up and talks about ‘sectoral ambitions’ – not sectorial cuts or sectoral climate budgets. The question for Elvesuen is: why can't a sector-by-year climate budget be created that commits and is not just an ambition?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1017	The whole point of entering into the EU framework is, of course, that we have obligations to follow up. That is precisely why we are now conducting these negotiations. In addition, we have a climate law that says that it should be reported systematically. That's what we're going to start with in the autumn. We have to follow the emission trajectory towards 2030. If we can't do that, we'll get a penalty with an agreement, which we'll have to follow up. Finally, I know very well about the environmental and climate action in Oslo after being involved in laying the foundation for most of them. There is no doubt that Oslo now has a good starting point for pursuing a strong climate policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1024	An overall Norwegian environmental movement has criticised the absence of concrete national emission targets in this Communication and expressed great scepticism for taking the principle of quota trading from the ETS sector, all of which are agreed, into the non-quota sector as well. What is it the Left and the Government have understood that the climate and environmental movement has not yet understood?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1029	That there is no contradiction between having international obligations to ensure the implementation of measures – regardless of who has a majority, who sits on the Stortinget – and having their own, more ambitious and stronger objectives. So we're going to take steps in the work. First, we must have an agreement with the EU. I think it's right to have flexibility in that agreement, if we can get it with a one-off purchase of allowances. It's going to be a decision of our own whether to do it or not. That decision has not been taken. Then we have to put the plans for how we're going to achieve the targets by 2030. In today’s policy, climate reconciliation is a matter of concern. As far as the period to 2020 is concerned, both the commitments in the Paris Agreement and our own climate settlement require that we do what we can to strengthen our efforts towards 2020 as well and seek to achieve the 48.6 million tonnes emissions target.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1036	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1041	The theme we are discussing today is, as many have rightly said, the most important issues of the planet and the greatest and most demanding challenge we and our colleagues in all other countries have. The bad news – which has also been said many times, but which cannot be repeated too often – is that if we fail, we destroy the basis of life on the globe. The good news is that in recent years there has been a development of new technological solutions, new opportunities, which show that it is actually possible to meet the ambitious objectives of the Paris Agreement to limit the global warming to 2 degrees, at least 1.5 degrees. In this way, technology goes our way, but it requires a wise, ambitious policy in close contact with an ambitious business and an ambitious working life that wants to take advantage of the opportunities. The Workers' Party is a technology-optimistic, industry-friendly climate party. We believe that these things can work together. We want a comprehensive Norwegian policy, both at home and in cooperation with other countries, in order to achieve this. The working party is strongly in favour of international cooperation, and many of our predecessors have been at the heart of the international debate on the development of a quota trading system in the quota sector – as my colleague, Aukust, said earlier, is called the quota-free sector because it is the sector that is considered suitable for trading in cross-border allowances. So when our very offensive case rapporteur, Stefan Heggelund, says that we have now turned around and moved in to go on a boy tour to Poland to convince Poland that they have to change their coal policy on their own, it is completely wrong. This is definitely in the area of the quota-free sector – where we stand together globally, and where we work closely with the EU, which we strongly support. This has always been the case in our thinking – not now, but for many years – that in the non-quota sector strict national requirements must be imposed, one must set its own, national requirements which are in no way contrary to cooperation. There is no one from the Labour Party who has said that we should not cooperate with the European Union in this whole area. What we're saying is that we've gone against using flexibility mechanisms as a sleeping cushion, that's like a system that allows you to buy away from the necessary measures here at home. I need to stress that I think it is doing Norwegian industry and Norwegian business a bear service. There are a number of major changes that have to happen here with us and in many other countries. I'm convinced, even after visiting many exciting companies that are just thinking about this, that strong, strict, clear national requirements help to focus on a transition that has to happen in any case, and that doing what you have to do will actually pay off, early rather than late. It's better to go to the front, create industrial clusters, develop new technologies and share with others than to wait until you're slowed down. This is part of climate policy and has its main foundation in climate policy, but it is also important to think about how we create a business for the future that can create jobs as the oil and gas industries do not want to do it at the same level as it is today. I am therefore disappointed that parties that have had a very high profile in this field – the Left, who have joined the government, and the Christian People’s Party, who support the policy as it has now presented – do not want to make concrete, measurable national demands in the field of climate change. But it's not too late to turn around. We have specific proposals, including: on sectoral action plans with concrete emissions budgets, the introduction of climate budgets in all sectors, including including industry and others in the ETS into these climate budgets, and a number of other measures. There are 56 proposals that we believe will improve this strategy. This is a question that is so important that it is important to build broad consensus. I would like to see that we had even greater agreement on where we are going, but at the same time, I note that the commitment in this matter shows that there is a great deal of understanding that this topic is one of the most important in our time and for many years to come. We will build on that in the work of our committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1059	The debate on the climate communication has been the same as about all the climate debates I have followed on Stortinget in the next five years I have been here. The opposition thinks we're doing too little too late, we think things are on the right track. In other words, the discussion and discussion on this climate communication has been very predictable. However, the climate debate can be confusing and difficult to understand. It may be difficult enough for us who work on it every day, but in between I think it must be completely incomprehensible to most people. We surround ourselves with terms like non-quota sector, IPCC, carbon budget and climate neutrality with the greatest of course, but these are words that most people will have problems explaining or understanding the content of. In addition, the debate is too marked by the fact that we are forgetting the global perspective, because climate policy is not a Norwegian championship, nor is Norway a lag in climate policy. I have to admit, I'm a little tired of this debate. There is a kind of sport in overcoming each other – in drawing the opponent into a worst-case light and reducing what is actually important politics and important suggestions, to buttons and glossy images. That's too bad. One has to be almost Norwegian to think that Norway is not doing anything about climate policy. Reaching our 2030 climate targets is getting tough, it's not done overnight. Norway does not have much low-hanging fruit in emissions reduction policy, no simple emissions to reduce. We have no energy mix that we can phase out, like coal, with large emission gains. We have an industry that has already reduced its emissions by 40 pst. since 1990. We have plenty of clean, renewable power. Our most low-hanging fruit is the transport sector. A lot has happened here in the last few years. In this climate communication, we get a new, reinforced target of halving emissions. Our electric car share is now 30 pst. We're on the right track, but of course it's not done overnight. From 2016 to 2017, road traffic emissions decreased by 4 pst. It shows that this government's policy is working. The arrows are finally starting to point in the right direction. The goal cannot be to make it the hardest and the most expensive way to achieve our climate goals just because it looks better on paper. Some of the rhetoric that has been used in this debate, especially from the Workers' Party, worries me. In the past, we have agreed that cost-effectiveness is an important principle of climate policy, it is now leaving the Workers' Party. Now they will no longer take advantage of the flexibility available through climate cooperation with the EU. One can almost wonder why they have not said at the same time that they want Norway out of the EU ETS, i.e. the quota system. Why is it possible to cooperate on emissions reductions in, for example: the petroleum sector and industry, but not in agriculture and transport? And why do you use the false rhetoric that such a policy will lead to that we will not cut in Norway? That's directly wrong. The Climate Communication shows us how – that we can cut between 20 and 25 million in cost-effective terms. tonnes in Norway and make use of flexibility in the last, most expensive tonnes. This is a sensible policy. It'll make sure we get the biggest cut for the money. And then the Labour Party argues that there will be no conversion in Norway if we are to use flexibility. It's completely wrong, too. The transition is coming, it's in progress, it's not either – or. It is not just about using flexibility and not cutting in Norway, or vice versa. In other words, I look forward to following closely the Labour Party's alternative state budget in the future, because there is no doubt that there is a great deal of willingness to change in Norwegian business and society. If the Workers' Party believes that this comes of itself and is free of charge, they take a lot of mistakes. We spend a lot of money on conversion, and we're going to spend more. Why every day the Labour Party will make policy as costly as possible instead of as possible, I do not understand that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1076	Earlier in the debate I have been uncertain, but now I have to admit that I am even more in doubt. So we are nine parties present in this debate, all of which want to cut emissions, but we don't want to do it together. It's very unfortunate. The Labour Party, at Espen Barth Eide, is just saying from the pulpit that this is the most important topic. Nevertheless, they choose to go away from their established policies and come up with alternatives, and I have the impression that it is more important to disagree with the government than it is to be involved and get to reduce climate change emissions. Many talk about a smarter society and smarter solutions. Yes, within climate there is nothing different: it is very important, both for costs and not least for results. Then it's very unfortunate that we have a large minority who want to get away from the smart solutions, which provide both fairer and better solutions for the climate. I am pleased that the majority is building its policy on market-based solutions. Climate challenges are global, and then we need international agreements. Norway will take its emissions, but we know that it will be expensive emissions. The community has taken responsibility at an early stage, and we must not end up punishing it for it. Our community is so clean that no matter where we cut, it will be expensive. Therefore, it will have major consequences if we do not choose the smart solutions, the cost-effective solutions. CCS is a project that can have great positive consequences if one succeeds. What's the challenge with that project? Well, there's related costs. At that time, it is extremely unfortunate to prioritize expensive domestic cuts that help to prevent good solutions. So by refusing to use the smart solutions, we're punishing our own business, and we're not releasing capital to take the necessary investment to continue working with CCS or other research and technology development. The Progress Party is pleased with many of the measures included in the Communication that contribute precisely to technological development. The maritime package is an example of that, where we prioritise low- and zero-emission vessels, where we make a standard around shore-side electricity, and where we ask for investigations for emissions from the farming industry. We then give priority to areas where our business life is already well ahead, where it can have the opportunity to develop, and once again create jobs in Norway – not as it is now, that the large emissions cuts we achieve domestically imply technological developments abroad. One of the plans that now exists is smart and will deliver results.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1093	Norway is able to take the lead in the fight against climate change, combined with industrial development and new jobs around the country. We can take responsibility for setting the requirements needed to achieve the climate goals, and at the same time develop the maritime industry at home that can develop new solutions for the future, with the best available expertise in the world – it actually exists along our coast. In Norway, we have the whole maritime cluster well occupied by good seafarers, forward-looking suppliers, smart designers, skilled shipyards, finance industry and modern shipowners – all with great ambitions for the climate, because they see the potential for increased competitiveness compared to the solutions they have, and see that you can participate and contribute to an important path towards a better future and to secure our living conditions in the future. From Stortingen we have the power to influence this development in many different ways. These include: through public procurement. We can make important demands on tenders, and we have the opportunity to facilitate an instrument that supports the development of technology that is needed, both through the eco-technology system and not least through Enova. The industries are on this same layer. I want to swing into a bit of what the case rapporteur said instead of the ferries. It was an interesting story review. I remember that Ampere was the first battery ferry produced in Norway and the world, following the demands of the red-green government, supported by the eco-technology system established by the red-green government, and offers from counties that were not controlled by either the Right Party or the Progress Party. That's what we started, but we're going to keep going. What is interesting now is that already in 2022 we will be able to have 60 battery ferries in Norway – not thanks to the government, but despite the government. Right now, there are 24 new battery ferries for contracting, and the public purchasing goes ahead. The same is true of Trondelag County, which has run several rounds with different actors linked to the new speedboats. They have succeeded in finding zero-emission solutions, assisted only by Norwegian operators. As I said, the green shift to a renewable and zero-emission maritime sector is in full swing, and the ferry industry is leading the way in Norway and across the world, driven by good policy decisions on zero-emission requirements and a forward-looking industry that develops and deploys new emission-free solutions and new fuels. Norway has a world-leading maritime supplier industry for zero-emission solutions, and that is what we must use to be at the forefront and to be a role model for the world, which needs new and better solutions. Then it is a pity that the government repeatedly backs off and buys more time in all the necessary steps that need to be taken. We don't have time. We could get tougher demands for the timeframes for important actions today, it would not have been because the government has put the Christian People's Party into its pocket in this case, again. It doesn't help to say that you're a climate party, if you can't stand for it when it's really true and you're going to draw up the big lines for the future. Then you have to deliver. We also saw it in the autumn when we wanted to tighten the climate requirements for the coastal route offer. The same thing happened then: little ambitious from the government where in the opposition we would tighten up the climate requirements. But there is still an important matter to come to Stortinget on 15 May. That's the way forward for the CCS bet on the three important industrial projects, which we're now eagerly waiting to see what's going to happen in the future. The decision taken there is perhaps the most important of all related to achieving the climate objectives of the Paris Agreement. It will be a climate exam for both the Left in Government, the Christian People's Party as a supporting party and not least the government's commitment to future solutions. So an area we have in Norway today that really makes a difference for emissions cuts is the sea bet, and there are enormous opportunities to succeed. But I also warn – in the end – that confidence in the case rapporteur today can in many ways be self-destructive and unlucky for important initiatives in the future, because it serves to ensure that politicians are able to listen, learn and deliver what is important in order to achieve the best solutions for the future. Then it is not so constructive and trusting with the appearance that the rapporteur has shown today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1114	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1119	Climate problems cannot only be solved but must be solved. There are major challenges to address, but we also have good opportunities to cope with them if we implement concrete measures. That's what's important in a matter like this. It is good that a person gathers around concrete objectives, but one must also show willingness to take concrete action. I was reasonably surprised, for example, by the representative of the Christian People's Party, who used speaking time in this Chamber to argue against adopting concrete, binding measures today, when the Christian People's Party could just help to get a majority in this Chamber to move on, be concrete and not just on a general level say that we will come back to that later. In climate policy, concrete measures are urgently needed, practical approaches are needed and follow up. To the Council of State Elvesuen, who says to questions about the lack of mention of carbon capture and storage, that it gets those who made the notification to answer for: Such an attitude cannot be taken by a responsible State Council. It is Elvesuen who is now the responsible State Council and responsible for the follow-up. Unfortunately, the Left has failed in the budget for the current year. They're failing now. Then it remains to be seen what happens when the matter comes back to consideration later in ours. Norway has rich natural resources, which it is important that we use as part of the solution to climate problems. We have rich resources — soil resources, forest resources and marine resources. They can be used to solve climate problems, but also to create values and contribute to jobs across the country. We need to increase growth and increased logging in Norwegian forests. We need to increase food production. It is part of the solution to climate problems that we take responsibility by taking care of the food soil and producing more food in Norway. That is why it is also important to stress the proposals we have made in this context today. We must get ahead of the CO 2 fund for business transport, and real negotiations must begin. One of the things that really gets measured in terms of climate in the future, a third runway on the Gardermo, is that it's important to say a clear and clear no to – not just because of climate, but also to take care of food soil, to prevent communities from drowning in noise, and to use the capacity that already exists, instead of spending tens of billions on a runway we don't need.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1135	What we are putting on the table today is a climate communication and the committee's management of it, which, despite the harsh words and slaughter of some representatives in the Chamber, is offensive. Here I want to particularly draw the Greatness's attention to the direction we are going through this work now attracting the maritime industry. We see a level of ambition for the industry stretching to new heights. We dare to do it because, over the last few years, we have seen that the industry has delivered on our visions of zero-emission ferries and speedboats, but also because we see it as significant that the maritime industry is taking its share of the reductions in emissions. But I want to warn Stortinget against believing that the requirement for proposals for release-free fjords is an easy thing to solve. With respect to the long time horizons, for example: cruise ships have a 40-50-year perspective, with planning, financing, ordering and operation. What we're doing is we're making demands on the industry to turn so much faster than such horizons. And taking such grips, it's important that we jointly pull up these lines, and that we don't find it presumptuous to set other targets in the next magnification period. We have to trust us, as we say west. Now I feel that there is a broad consensus about the level of ambition on the table for the maritime sector. It's necessary, it's good, and it's decisive for us to close. The government's maritime strategy raised the ambition to be among the world's leading ports, and it also means that we must take the climate and environmental responsibility seriously – that we should be foremost in terms of environmental technology solutions, and that we should be among the nations that dare to demand that our unique nature remain pure and unspoiled. The decisions we have been invited to make today will challenge our maritime industry. But it can also form the basis for new technologies that we can industrialize in the next round. It may form the basis for new energy carriers such as hydrogen in the maritime fleet. It shows that we are technology optimists and that we have great faith in the innovativeness and creativity of our maritime industry. No, we can't in any way say that we don't have ambitions, as I feel that, for example, SV is in charge. What we are putting forward today shows the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1152	Transport represents almost 60 pst. of the emissions in the non-quota sector. That's why I think it's absolutely right that we should cut at least 50 pst. by 2030, greenhouse gases from the transport sector. Norway is among the most ambitious countries in terms of transport cuts. It's very important. The left has taken the lead in electric car policy, as we are now doing in shipping as well. In a country where we have almost 100 pst. renewable energy with our hydropower, which in addition has profits in normal years, we have a unique starting point for electrification, but also for the use of hydrogen where it is most appropriate. We've set an ambitious set of targets to reach the 50 pst goal in 2030. We're going to have fossil-free public transport by 2025. The examples are AtB in Trondheim, Ruter in Oslo and Columbus in Stavanger, which clearly have great ambitions. Today many gas buses – yes, in Trondheim there are only gas buses – with large amounts of biogas. Now we have e.g. Oslo ordered 70 electric buses, and in Trondheim 35 electric buses were delivered next spring. It's clear that the big ambitions are also local. All new passenger cars and light vans shall have zero emissions by 2025. We are on the way for the passenger cars, while for the vans we are looking for something. This is due, inter alia, to: VAT rules and lack of models with good enough characteristics. I believe that we will soon be able to speed up the sale of an electric car, but this is something the government and we at Stortinget must follow closely on ahead. If not enough zero-emission goods cars are sold, we need to do something to stimulate it. By 2030, the distribution of goods in the largest cities shall have virtually zero emissions. It's good not only for the climate, but also for the local environment. It will result in less air pollution of the smallest and most dangerous particles. By 2030 heavy goods vehicles, 75 pst. of new long-distance buses and 50 pst. of new trucks are zero-emission vehicles, and in 2030 we have an ambition that air traffic should use at least 30 pst. sustainable biofuels. Today's decision is ambitious and the objectives are clear. Now it has to be delivered.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1169	When you hear a former communications consultant and spin doctor – now a representative – Heggelund market and greenen the government's climate policy with a broad, bold brush, you almost have to stick to the chair to avoid your ears falling off – to mix some metaphors in your grip. He makes very serious government policies as both green and ambitious and as historically effective. But this is so bad. At the pace of the government, it will take approx. 2 018 years before we reach the low-emission society. If we are wondering if the government is ready to run up the speed – the speed – then we can only take a look at the wording of the setting for which the representative has been the case rapporteur. Here we find: The government should ‘assess’ — not implement anything, but ‘assess an action plan for biogas’. [[...]] Then the government will take the initiative – not implement anything, but ‘take the initiative for cooperation’, not to do anything, but ‘to document the benefits of the climate’. So the government is going to take the initiative for more documents. Then we find that the government is going to take the initiative to explore with the other Nordic countries in terms of – I am laughing at myself, I am sorry – ‘a common Nordic hydrogen strategy’. So you have to do some research into maybe making a strategy. Furthermore, we will have sectorial – not cut or budgeted – we will have ‘sectoral ambitions for cut’. Then we will also be asking for a climate policy ‘balancing the objectives of the Paris Agreement’ with food production, and we will ensure that capture technologies use zero-emission or low-emission technologies where appropriate. A concrete action is promoted with a clear milestone: cruise ship. It warms my heart, because I have a family cabin next to Geirangerfjord. Every year I've grown up with the diesel and inhaled it. But this is actually not a limited Document 8 proposal on cruise traffic in the World Heritage fjords – it’s great – this is a climate report on Norway’s entire emissions. Then it's very simple. It's not about out or at home. It's both/and. We need to do this both in Norway and outside – out of commitments and obligations at home. This is solved in the Greenhouse Gas protocol with Scope 1, 2 and 3. The most important thing is to take responsibility for what it operates, then purchasing power and finally eradicating, importing, trading, buying and exporting. The Government will maximise number three and not oblige with regard to number one. The call is very simple in the end: I answered yes to the question of obligations, but I also set a clear commitment target for emissions at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1184	The President would remind the representative that ‘svada’ is not a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1189	There are a lot of different areas that could have been discussed in a discussion and a debate on the climate communication. It says something about the breadth and complexity of what we're dealing with here today. I want to talk a little bit about the overall, a little bit about history, because there's reason to remember – as many people have done – the seriousness of what we debate and discuss. This is a matter that has been discussed for many years, but where the phase after 20–30 years of both national and international climate debate is that emissions are virtually on the ground resting. This means that the urgency of each time we actually discuss this is greater and greater. If we don't succeed in solving the climate problem, if we don't succeed in what we're doing here, it doesn't really have much to say, everything else we're doing. Therefore, there should perhaps be a little more seriousness about both the communication that was presented and the proposals that have been submitted in connection with it and which are a majority behind it. We see both that the emissions are on the ground resting and also that we have done little with the climate policy that has been in place in recent years. Then we'll hear here that it's never been easy to cut emissions in Norway. No, it doesn't. We have industry and we have a power mix that makes it difficult, we're a long country, and we're an expensive country. That's why we also came up with this idea of quota system, which is a Norwegian proposal and a Norwegian model that you've been with for many years, and which was very careful that we had just found the oil and were going to pick it up. But what the 20 years of quota gypsy have involved is that we have failed to cut emissions substantially in Norway. We can't get to the transition that we have to get through. Then it is said from the representative Tina Bru from the Right that the climate debate should be more engaging and understandable. Well, what this message implies is that unfortunately, the climate debate is being moved another step from the people most. For now we are no longer discussing the concrete emissions we are going to implement, we are discussing new mechanisms, new flexibility and no concrete objectives. The fact that the Norwegian people don't know what the emissions will be in 2030, I think, is deeply problematic and implies that most people are completely cut off from politics. We need to be able to conduct a climate policy in this country that means we're driving the transition forward, and that doesn't make us finally forced because it was too late. Then we have to be able to cut emissions, convert our industry, as we have demanded before, to the industry, which has made the world leader. Let's do that again. And then we also have to deal with that is the moral right thing to do. We are an oil nation that has made money in the climate. Let's cut emissions faster than other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1202	Both the Left and the Right boast in the debate on the objective of halving emissions from the transport sector by 2030. And the goal is fine, but it's not enough. We need clear commitments. Therefore, SV has done the job for the government and submitted a proposal establishing a clear target and a clear commitment to cut emissions in the transport sector down to a maximum of 7.45 million tonnes of CO 2 in 2030. That's the half of the government's party that boasts that they're going for. And then I expect the government parties to vote for what they say they are for. Then we hear that this Communication is a strategy for cooperation with the EU and not an Climate Action Communication in Norway. Well, as I said in my first post, it's the first time we're discussing climate policy in Stortinget where no new emission cuts are proposed. But the Minister for Climate and Environment said in his reply to me that he would draw up a plan to meet Norway's climate commitments. I take it as a signal that the Left will at least vote in favour of our proposal for a new climate communication and a new climate settlement with proposals for new emissions cut in Norway. We cannot continue a climate policy that makes us totally dependent on other countries cutting their emissions far more than they are obliged to, so that, as one of the world's richest countries, we can continue to pollute as before. In the past, the Right Party and the Advance Party were alone in this process of thinking on the civil side. Now, unfortunately, they have been followed by the Left. As I said in my first post – the right and left must sharpen. They can start by voting in favour of our proposal to halve emissions from the transport sector and come to Stortingen with a climate notification with new proposals on how Norway should cut its own emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1215	I think I should start with the representative Per Espen Stoknes. The representative forgot enough to take helium before he went to the pulpit, because that was probably just what was missing in a face-to-face post on symbol politics. This is about a reality where we're going to cut, and both the previous government and today's government have put on the table a lot of measures that are going to work in the future. Biofuel placing on the market, 20 pst. interference in 2020 was very controversial when it was adopted – several newspapers wrote on the front page that this was impossible to achieve. In 2018, we're going to mix in 10 pst. We're on the right track to meet that requirement. Electric car policy is stable until 2021, and it says something about long-term. It was established in 2003, and when we get to 2021, we are hopefully close to half of the cars being emission-free. It says something about the long-term we need, for those who have to pay these charges, people are most. We are now setting up a CO 2 fund, Enova is strengthened, there is a Process21 strategy, Renewable AS is established this year – a management capital of 400 million. kr. The ban on the use of fossil oil for heating in buildings from 2020 does something about the conversion. The message here also states that Avinor is to facilitate electric aircraft on the runway network. And we're not talking about long horizons, we're talking about 2025. These are the demanding shifts we're facing in society. There is a great demand both for business and for our citizens, both to change attitudes and habits and to contribute to the fissure layer, because Enova is mainly financed by the electricity charge paid by Norwegian households, while industry does not have an electricity charge. So this is a splinter layer and a trick, and we go hand in hand. To the representative Kaski, related to the EU allowance market: the EU will now systematically delete allowances in the next few years – ambitious – and they will also change the allowance factor from 1.74 pst. to 2.23 pst. It will also be a major challenge for Norway and Norwegian business to be involved, and Norway can choose from the share we get in the agreement with the EU to cut domestic quotas and further raise the requirement for EU contribution. So to Haltbrecken's wish for a new climate message. Yes, we would like to present that, but only when we have an agreement with the EU on Norwegian commitments, and when we have the forest reference path in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1235	Now when I take the word for the second time, it's because I want to stress the importance of the forest as part of the climate solution. It cannot be said strongly enough and often enough. Through active forestry, carbon uptake will be increased and the biomass extracted into renewable materials, energy and a number of other climate-neutral products – as said: circular economy in practice ensuring both the environment and value creation. The Paris Agreement states that in the second half of the century there will be a balance between anthropogenic emissions and greenhouse gas uptake. As a large forest country, we have a special responsibility to ensure carbon absorption on our own land. We should do it through industrial projects in carbon capture and storage, but we also need to exploit the natural and spatial conditions at the same time. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change also states that increased use of biomass is necessary to address climate challenges. All scenarios on which the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change is based require an increase in the maximum and global use of biomass. In the potential studies performed, the yield shall increase by between 51 and 200 pst. These are scenarios that are in line with the 2-degree target and involve a six-fold increase in the use of bioenergy. The importance and opportunities of the forest have been highlighted in both the fifth main report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and in the report of the Environment Directorate on the basis of knowledge on low-emission development. In spite of this, however, there is a high risk that EU accounting legislation on greenhouse gas emissions in forests will severely restrict the potential of countries to increase their greenhouse gas emissions within sustainable frameworks. This is particularly demanding for countries with unused forest resources, such as Norway. We cannot sit in this room and see that the opportunities offered by the forest to contribute to the green shift are weakened. We are facing a situation where Norwegian forests are accounted for with net emissions by complying with EU climate legislation, when the actual situation is that the forest in Norway has a large net uptake. I registered that the Council of State instead referred to those who made the notification. But it is the Council of State that is to negotiate, and I use the opportunity to ask the Council of State to ensure that in the negotiations we use the space for action in the reference paths, provide flexibility and, not least, provide compensation. The Central Party has also put forward proposals and hopes that these proposals will be accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1250	I would like to thank the previous speaker for a good report on the forest and on the importance of Norway following this up in the negotiations when we are going to link LULUCF up to Europe. There have been several speeches now that confirm, for example. that the Christian People's Party could vote in favour of more proposals; there is no new policy here; there is a lack of action. But I actually thought that the article was a good symbol of the same thing, because this is where the majority of all parties say that one should use the space that one has up against the EU. One determines that one should have compensation in place. In fact, we've got the important things that we're going to be able to do. And yet there are some who think that here we have to put forward another loose proposal, because the 70 proposals that are now there are not enough, clearly. It's going to be a bit of the same thing: there are some people who say that the Christian People's Party should now take a rematch on a third runway on the Gardermo, even though we've decided what we think of it in national transport plan. Well, what's going on with this big message that makes you think you should have changed your vision based on the processes we're in? We know that we need to cut greenhouse gas emissions, we know that we have targets by 2030. The size has an even stronger goal of being climate neutral towards it and having a climate law that will create a framework that will ensure that it becomes a continuity, and that this is not a bonanza of loose proposals that do not have a context, and how many of them are not open and open doors, or are things that are actually in the budget, and that should be in the budget negotiations. It's a little bit like this that sometimes the big debates can become a competition to misunderstand, and I hope that we can stop when it comes to what may be the most important area to be able to work with, our climate work. We will now have an important framework in place when it comes to a climate law that will define sectoral ambitions, and that these things will come to the state budget. There's going to be an exciting test piece in the state budget that's coming, that we can get the right framework to work on this. But then it's about being able to stand in a system and not believe that there are loose proposals without a context that takes us forward. I want to remind you of a quote that I was told by a slightly older man yesterday, a Finnish proverb that says that the fewer teeth one has in his mouth, the less loose his tongue. If there's something we need in climate policy, it's teeth that can bite, and not a tongue that's just loose.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1261	The Workers' Party is for international cooperation. We are in favour of an agreement with the EU – not only are we for it, we have called for it. It was three years since Stortinget decided that we should get an agreement in place. Then it was said that it could take up to one year. Now it's been three years – we've had three climate ministers that none of them have been able to deliver. And not only can they not deliver – that we do not have an agreement, is used as an excuse for us not to act. The working party believes that this is of course just nonsense, it is in the climate struggle just to get started. Now we will have a postponement, and Ola Elvesuen uses the same arguments as his predecessors from the Right: we have to wait for an agreement with the EU. In the climate fight, I'm weakly optimistic, because there's a lot going in the right direction. The critical thing is that we don't have time to wait. Today, the Storting is doing just that – we are saying that we are further postponing our actions. The working party has presented 56 proposals that the government could only jump on and accept with open arms, which could help to strengthen the climate communication. I get worried when I hear the speakers from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left – perhaps the most when I hear the rapporteur's enormous self-satisfaction. The climate threat is so serious that there is not one politician around the world who should be self-satisfied and knock himself on the chest and say that we have done enough. All countries, all politicians have to go further in order to achieve goals. So we're talking about the flexible mechanisms that kind of have to solve everything. But Norway will become a low-carbon society. It's not that we can buy ourselves free, this is the conversion that we have to go through anyway. We also know that these mechanisms do not necessarily result in emissions cuts in Europe. It is possible to lure the Left with these mechanisms, but you can't fool the planet's climate and get enough climate in place. The government has barely taken its own climate initiatives. When Utsira was electrified, they had to be tailed and dragged. When we were going to put in place a climate law, the Progress Party voted against it. When we were to get palm oil out of biofuels, the Right and Advance Party voted against it. When we were to have low-emission zones, the Right and the Advance Party voted against it. The Labour Party-led City Council here in Oslo has more ambitions for what to do in Oslo than the government has for the whole country. In the climate battle, there is a need for the opposition to take responsibility. Let me end by talking about the international perspective. So this government has cut one third of climate aid. That's what the Workers' Party says no. On the contrary, we believe that climate aid should be reinforced. There is a proposal on this in the Chamber today. I think it's surprising that it doesn't get a majority, perhaps especially that the Christian People's Party, which has a strong tradition of both aid and climate, votes against it. Finally, President, if I may make a explanation of vote: the Labour Party will vote in favour of the motions. 1-3, from the majority parties, subsidiary, when our own proposals fall. Then we will also vote in favour of the proposal No. 9–11 and 28–30 in the vote, even in a subsidiary way when our own proposals fall. And then we will also vote in favour of resolving the proposal by the MDG.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1278	I'll try to paint a slightly large picture in this post, and we'll see if I can get time for some details in the next one. Everyone knows what happened in Paris. We got a measure far ahead of time that we're trying to limit the heating to 1.5 degrees, at least to 2 degrees. One organisation after another warns: we can't reach the goal. Even though all the emissions that have been reported to the UN are being implemented, it is very likely that we will have a temperature increase of at least 3 degrees by the year 2100, the European Climate Foundation wrote in a press release not long ago. Some of the main findings of the UNEP report from last autumn, where our former SV manager Erik Solheim is chief, are as clear as they are serious. The world’s countries have notified the UN, accounting for only one third of what is necessary to achieve the 2-degree target. In June last year, the IEA wrote that cutting emissions to zero by 2060 would require an exceptionally strong political will and effort from all actors. And it's an unusually powerful language from that agency. In addition, they would require large-scale expansion of the capture and storage of CO 2. We don't have much time. Therefore, Norway, the world and the world need courageous politicians who look up and not just look at the day tomorrow or the next elections. We have to think longer than four years ahead. What about a generation ahead? A generation is only when our young children are adults, not to mention the future of our grandchildren. Then one would think that the majority here in the hall took some action, among other things. by cleaning up our own house and making a contribution to what we can do here at home. Climate change is now. They're happening now. We see it in every way -- not least in our part of the world, and especially in the Arctic, with Svalbard. I've said it several times from the pulpit here, because I know well about those conditions. I think the polar bear disappears as a permanent breeding species on Svalbard in 18-20 years. The Longyearbyen has to be rebuilt soon; otherwise it simply travels to sea, to say it a little brutally. It would have been okay to follow the policy of government and Heggelund's genius, with little grip on the EU track and with little ambitions here at home, if only we had time. The proposal to bring a new climate message will obviously fall here in the hall. This is why all representatives have the option of choosing and choosing among good climate proposals from SV's green self-service desk. Like and vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1298	The representative Per Espen Stoknes has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1303	The representative Halleland challenged me to be concerned about the welfare state. The representative Halleland believes that the Nordics are worse, stupider and slower than the Danes, Swedes and Finns. The Progress Party scares most people that our well-being is oil-dependent. The Greens have higher confidence in the competence, creativity and adaptability of the Nordics and in a responsible economic policy that also achieves climate objectives. Let me quickly reveal three secrets here from the pulpit: Our greatest value is not oil, but human capital – it represents approximately. 70 pst. of national wealth. We don't need more oil exports to maintain well-being. We solve the job challenges by becoming a normal Scandinavian country. There are two main approaches we can take: enough new jobs, especially in the tertiary industries, and enough new export revenues, especially from a variety of products from the sea – fish – and metals, etc. So over to today's most important thing, namely proposal No. 72, from the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European ‘The Government asks the Government to issue as soon as possible a ban on the sale of helium balloons and to return to Stortinget with this.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1326	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1331	Christian People's Party says we agree in this room that there is a need to cut. But it does not seem to agree that something has to be done. We actually have to do it too. It is also said that the proposals from, among others, SV is too poorly investigated. Since 1990, we have barely done anything else in this country than investigate proposals for climate change. Public reports total between 7 and 8 kilograms. We have a sea of suggestions to choose from. There are no new investigations and major reports with this weight we need now. Now we need agreement on action and concrete emission cuts. Let's not discuss ourselves in the middle of a warmer future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1336	Today it has been said that I have such good confidence and am so self-satisfied. Actually, I have never had very good self-confidence, which both friends and acquaintances can certainly confirm, so I do not know that quite again. But I believe that the climate policy of the four parties is absolutely right. The representative Stoknes had some critical remarks about our formulations, and yes, politicians can sometimes be a bit tense, but the fact is that as a country we have not been more offensive than what we are now. He also had some comments about my background. I worked in the hotel business before I got into Stortinget, but I was educated at the institution where Stokne works. When Stoknes has been co-responsible for my education, it may not be so strange that I have become as I have become. To the Workers' Party: We have more ambitious goals now than we had under the Red-Green government – more ambitious goals. They're criticising our goals, but the targets are downgraded under this government. Then it'll all be a little parochial. 40 pst. – at least – by 2030 and then we will cooperate with Europe and ensure that we also help to cut Europe, where it really does. That's what the Workers' Party today says no. Moreover, there is now some confusion about what the Workers' Party really thinks about fjords and forests, because the Workers' Party is part of the proposal for two fjord proposals that have quite different wording. One is to be ‘target’ and the other is to be ‘required’. What does the Workers' Party really think about fjord? We do not know, but then it is good that they vote subsidiaryly for the good fjord proposals of the four parties. In the case of forests, it is remarkable to see the Workers' Party's proposals, given that they do not want to use the flexibility mechanisms. Then they can't mean what they think about forest. In one area, they want to use something they're opposed to – and in the area as a whole, they won't use what they're against. They have to decide. You can't mean both of these things at the same time. It says something about the process that the batch has been through in the context of the work on this important message. It may also tell us something about how they have managed to land on the conclusions they have reached, where they turn down what has been their climate policy in the past, and say no to good European cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1349	The representative, Storehaug, pointed out that further suggestions had now been made on the table, including: from the centre party, and that one is now up to approx. 70 proposals. Yes, there are many loose proposals, and there are many proposals that have been put forward in the vote, but that should concern both the representative of Storehaug and other parties as well. The communication presented has far too few concrete measures. That's exactly why one of the Stortinges has tried to take responsibility by making concrete proposals, so that we can move on to climate action. Unfortunately, the representative Storehaug and the Christian People's Party have been on the wrong side in most of today's contexts. Then the representative also shows – when I took up a third runway on the Gardermoen in my previous post – that the Christian People's Party opposed it in the NTP. Well, then I'll ask the representative, Storehaug, to show us where it says it. Very familiar, there is not one word against a third runway on the part of the Christian People's Party in the NTP. On the other hand, the Christian People's Party and the Left could have used the NTP process and the negotiations there to stop a third runway on the Gardermo. It chose not to do so. Later in the spring of last year, when the Avinor message came up for treatment, the Christian People's Party even went along with – together with the Right, the Labour Party and the Advance Party – to continue planning a third runway on the Gardermoen along the eastern alternatives. I think it's very nice if it's such that the Christian People's Party has now become against a third runway on the Gardermo. I have recorded that their nutritionist spokesperson in a soil protection debate earlier addressed the issues related to soil protection and a third runway, but the Christian People's Party has not previously voted to stop a third runway. They are not behind any suggestions on that today either. Left's done it before. The left has previously been with us towards a third runway. Their towering representative from Akershus, Abid Q. Raja, jumps around at public meetings in the county and argues against a third runway. But when we make concrete proposals in Stortinget to stop a third runway – which I have registered that the Council of State has also had an involvement for the past – Left votes against in this case. As a result, people living in the area still have to live in uncertainty about a runway that Norway does not need. One already has two runways on the Gardermo. Heathrow, who has almost three times as many passengers and movements, has three runways. Gatwick, who has far more passengers than Gardermoen has, has only one runway. We need to use the capacity we have today. We can use Rygge, for example, which is almost abandoned today. We can use it for aerodrome operations instead of spending billions of dollars on a runway that will contribute to more greenhouse gas emissions, which will contribute to the degradation of food soils, which will contribute to increased noise in the neighbourhood – which is bad climate policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1363	To the last speaker: there is no doubt that the Left is against a third runway on the Gardermo, and no decision is made to get a third runway on the Gardermoen during this downhill period. Many are concerned about lifting their eyes. I think it's important to do that and look at what Norway is doing across borders. Only now in the spring are two important decisions taken. One is the agreement with Colombia that we should extend cooperation on the conservation of rainforests – a major and important decision. The second is that, in the very central role Norway has had within the International Maritime Organisation, we have finally established a Paris Agreement also for international shipping, with a reduction of 50 pst. towards 2050 – a major and important decision. Then I was challenged by the representative Geelsvik, who said that I answered too easily when I said that they were the ones who submitted this message, who have to answer why CCS is not part of it. Then he should have listened to the rest of the answer I gave. I replied that it might have been because it is about the relationship with the EU and the non-quota sector. I also replied as to why I thought there was no need for an additional message. And I replied to what we're doing today from the government to continue working with CCS, and that we're coming back to Stortinget with it in the spring. It was also about reference roads in the field of forest and forest management. Now, when we get an agreement with the EU, we get a common effort distribution, but in addition, the area becomes part of this. I think Norway needs to focus more on just the area. We also have deforestation in Norway, and we have managed forests. It's important, as it was said, that we look at the flexibility we can have when we're going to make our own emission path. The government fully agrees. Of course, we need to use the compensation we will have in common with the rest of the EU, and we will also see whether there is a basis for additional compensation, as Finland has received, even if they have received it primarily because of deforestation. So finally, it's not given that we get an agreement with the European Union. I think it is very important for the climate policy in Norway that we get it into, but it is when we have it, it would be right to make the decision whether to make use of the flexibility that an agreement will give.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1376	The representative Tore Storehaug has held the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1381	The representative, Gülsvik, has either been wrong or I have stated that I am unclear. The Christian People's Party has said that we want to come back to Stortinget with the question of a third runway, and there is something one must do to build a third runway. What I think is a bit symptomatic of how this debate has now become is that a job for actions that provide dual drug use, individual actions in sectors that are distributed, a point of single technology. One would like to move the climate change work done in Norwegian business, in the districts, out with those who create jobs, and out with those who live their lives in our country – that tool – into the Stortinge in the form of the ideas and measures that one can come up with, and then one is impressed by how many such measures one has been able to figure out. It's not a good way to run politics, and it's not a good way to run climate policy. We need the many climate measures, not the few. Then we need business and Norway as a whole to change, not just the size of a single decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1388	The representative Ketil Kjeseth has spoken the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1393	What I want to focus on is the system approach that we use – that we will have an agreement with the EU. What exactly the climate law and the agreement with the EU will give us are annual climate budgets – from 2019, according to the Climate Act, but also from 2021, according to the EU – the annual reporting obligation and also the penalties. It will put Norwegian climate policy in a completely different system, with greater commitments. And that's when we can talk about the ambitions that many people want here. Of the over 70 proposals, many are by 2020, and it is completely unrealistic to reach them. With regard to the proposal with which SV has gone high on the ground, on non-emissionary world heritage fjords by 2023, today there is a unanimous increase of by 2026, and when it is technically possible to achieve it. It shows that it is important to have the negotiations we have in Stortinget, and that is also the result of someone out there reporting that this is too ambitious. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1400	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1405	The last representative from the Left underlines the ambitions of this agreement with the European Union, but we also hear from the Council of State that it is still being reserved for it at all and we are getting this agreement into port. I have to say it gets exciting to see what happens if we don't, and what ambitions that will then come from this government. There is great dissatisfaction with the amount of proposals on the table in connection with this process, but there is a strong willingness in this process to implement climate change and to adopt concrete measures that we know will work both to convert the Norwegian economy and to cut emissions. The government should welcome that and not reject it in the way that it does. It is that one can disagree with the debate, but there is a real political disagreement between the opposition and the position on whether to take the bulk of the emission cuts here at home and actually take the responsibility that we as a nation have, or whether to continue to have these indefinable flexible arrangements and international agreements, which we have tried for 20 years without giving significant and significant emission cuts. There is talk that more ambitious objectives have now been achieved. So with respect to reporting, it's like every year there's got to be more ambitious goals. It's not like today's government can look back at the red-green government and say, look what they did. But in all days -- that's actually how we have to adopt more ambitious targets, we're going to zero. That's why every government and every single big thing is going to have it hanging over it in the foreseeable future. And every state budget must be better than the previous one in climate terms. 40 pst. into 2030 is the goal, but it's 40 pst. of Norwegian emissions? We don't know. We still don't know how much emissions we're going to have in Norway in 2030. There are no steering signals for Norwegian policy, for Norwegian business or for Norwegian people. Let's get concrete goals that say something about where we're going, what we're going to be able to achieve together. It would have been interesting. Where are we going to cut the emissions? What are we going to do? In what areas will Norway be the country that ensures that new technologies, which can also be used by the rest of the world, will have a market?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1420	I feel that this debate has shown that there is a clear and clear distinction between the position and the opposition here and that the opposition is more ambitious in climate policy. Everyone in this Chamber agrees on the importance of mandatory international cooperation. In addition, the opposition believes that we need to set strong, strict and clear national targets in the areas that are best suited to national targets, such as transport, waste management and the equivalent. It is an important distinction in Norwegian policy. That's not really new. The interesting thing is who belongs to the position and the opposition in this. I am pleased that the Workers' Party belongs to the environmentally ambitious side, and I am surprised that the Left and Christian People's Party has so clearly joined the more passive side, which wants to buy out of the most difficult cuts through international cooperation. When I took the floor again, it was because I want to point out once at a point that several people have tried to make, but obviously without the penetrating force of the case rapporteur, Mr Heggelund: it is not that the Workers' Party was previously a member of the use of flexibility schemes in the non-quota sector, and then suddenly decided not to be so anymore. That's not right. The working party was and is in favour of a quota system in the quota sector, of which the name, and when the climate notification came last year, we said that we disagreed that this system should also be extended to the non-quota sector, because it undermines much of the point with a distinction between the quota and non-quota sector. I notice that on a few occasions it has been warned by the Left that the Workers' Party is too ambitious in climate policy, for example. in the case of World Heritage fjords and cruise traffic. I think it's right to make strict demands, and I think it's very important to listen to the many people out there in business and industry who say that we can get more, but we need some clear and clear demands that we're going to stretch towards in order to be at the forefront of this development.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1431	The representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1436	State Council Elvesuen wondered if I had heard his entire reply earlier today. I do, and it didn't get any better by reproducing the rest of the answer -- that there was no need to say anything about CCS, because it's part of the quota sector. Well, just one of the major weaknesses of the climate communication is that it is far too poor on concrete measures in the quota sector. Long-term migration is important also in the quota sector, and concrete national measures. In the case of a third runway, State Council Elvesuen does not get away from the fact that there is a left making a ham change here. Last year, in connection with the Avinor message, the Left Party and the Centre Party met on the following note: ‘The members of the Committee of the Parties and the Left do not support further work on a third runway on the Gardermoen’.» When the same thing is being discussed here today, unfortunately, the Left no longer agrees with the Central Party, the SV and the Green Party; they vote against the proposal that comes up for consideration, together with their government partners – unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1449	I would like to comment on some areas in which I have been very engaged, and which I think are very important. This applies, inter alia, to: maritime industry, which was also the representative Else-May Botten within and underlined. We had a golden opportunity not long ago, but it was not taken. Then I think about the coast route offer. It tells a lot about the government's environmental ambition. It was added up to a 25 pst. the reduction of emissions in that tender, and the length of contracts we are talking about here is far too poor. Key actors want environmental requirements, emission requirements. The point is that Norwegian industry likes to win the tenders when the requirements are turned on. It was a pleasure that a Norwegian company got one of the packages, but they had probably got it – and perhaps several Norwegians had – if the requirements were more stringent. The same applies to technologies such as liquid wind power. In the case of conversion, there is a short distance for the oil and gas industry, for shipping, for our shipyards, even for hydropower and high technology such as: in Kongsberg Gruppe, for liquid wind power. That's exactly what's been going on abroad, in the United Kingdom, but we don't have any pilots here at home. Of course, there is also a very short physical distance between an oil platform and a liquid wind power plant, considering possibly electrifying the platform – not to mention the environments on both sides, which are so close to each other. Those who wish to take action may, as a start, support proposal No. 65, from SV, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Green Party, on zero emissions for tourist boats – which have sometimes been mentioned here – in important tourist fjords by 2025. Another important proposal is to transfer goods from rubber wheels to runways and boats. It is generally accepted here that economic instruments – in terms of taxes and incentives – work; that we charge what we do not want, and incentivise what we want. That is the background for proposal No. 45, from the Swedish Environment Party and the Greens, where we ask the government to propose a charge for goods by car, and a reward for the transport of goods by road or keel. It will work, but the majority does not dare. To the majority in the Chamber, I would say that it doesn't matter if they see SV and the other environmental parties in the eyes after the vote today – they can do that safely. But remember one thing: there are many who are also going to see grandchildren in their eyes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1464	I'll be brief. For the sake of formality, on behalf of the government parties: we are voting in favour of proposal No. 72, with the amended wording.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1469	I only have one explanation of vote: the centre party will also support the proposal to investigate a possible ban on helium balloons.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1474	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1490	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up for the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1499	In the previous debate, many people were talking about taking things home. For me, it becomes a little bit literal in this case, all the time I'm the son of a fisherman from Førdefjorden. This is the first thing that will be put forward here in Stortinget with me as a case spokesman. I have to start by thanking the rest of the Committee for a good cooperation. It's not the first time, and it won't be the last time, we're discussing this thing right here in this room. The Christian People's Party has chosen to support partially the SV's Document 8 proposal. This presented indicates that the mining project in Fördefjorden, in Engebøfjellet, has been tested, which has shown that there are quite considerable changes in this project. Among other things, one of the two products to be extracted – there is only one of two – has gone from being a rutile project to being a rutile and granite project. The number of jobs created is strongly adjusted. The operating time has been reduced, and the length of daybreak, i.e. the period that will create the most noise and pollution for people in the vicinity, is adjusted. This is critical for one reason and it is the history behind the permission given for fjord dumping in this area. The Directorate for the Environment first issued the environmental warnings against the project and warned of the planned fjord dumping. First, after an order to see the socio-economic benefits of the project, they would recommend it. When these socio-economic effects are now quite significantly changed and even changed what mineral one is looking for here, to rutile, for which there is national ownership, and granite, for which there is local ownership, there are quite significant changes in a project where there were initially quite a number of environmental reasons that speak against, among other things. the amount of waste to be disposed of in the fjord and the number of red-listed species with spawning and growing areas in the area. These are among the things the Institute of Marine Research has previously warned against. There is a generally high threshold for converting management decisions. I would like to remind you that one of the comments in the previous part of the story was in Stortinget, pointed out that the project should be closely followed, and when the central authorities are now changing, there is a test whether the Storting is doing it. When it comes to the cases in Kvalsund, the Christian People's Party has assessed that there has not been any new information that has changed sufficiently on the grounds that we want to ask for a new assessment in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1514	Would the representative like to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1519	That's right -- I want to bring up proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1524	The representative, Tore Storehaug, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1529	I would like to start by thanking the case rapporteur for a good cooperation in this matter and pointing out that the application for maritime landfill for Nordic Mining's mining project started in 2008. There has been a long and thorough handling of this matter, and the resistance has been great from different teams all the way, but it was landed in 2016. Entrepreneurs have a great responsibility to operate in a way that society around them can live with, and it is important that they do everything they can to have that confidence in their neighbourhood. But economic operators who invest heavily must also have a predictability of their investments and plans for activity. We also notice that the company has now adjusted something during the operating period and not least the number of employees, as the rapporteur pointed out. It's important that the government here follows closely what's going on. But the Workers' Party does not want to go new rounds of treatment. We believe it is important to follow closely that the operation is now carried out in a proper manner and in accordance with the requirements that are imposed. In the comments, we have referred to the job that was done in the big news of waste this winter, where we saw that there are also challenges related to plastics in the sea, not least by explosion work in the mountains, and are concerned that this too is something you have to start looking at – how to deal with it. In short, the Labour Party believes that there should be a high threshold to convert such administrative decisions. We are critical of any negative developments here, but do not support the proposers in resuming the proceedings.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1540	I would like to thank the President-in-Office for a good presentation. Then I would like to thank the previous speaker, the representative, Botten, for a good report. I agree with many of the assessments made. This is also about predictability for people who have made large investments. In the last period, there was no majority to move decisions in such cases to the Storting. The Jeløya platform states that no new permits will be granted for maritime landfill during this landfilling period and that the consequences of a ban on new maritime landfills will be investigated. It is important, it is offensive – we ensure both predictability and the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1547	The proposers call for a re-examination of the issue of the establishment of maritime landfill in Fördefjorden and Repparfjorden. The application for landfill in Fördefjorden was sent for the first time in 2008, and then Nordic Mining was granted an emission permit to establish marine landfills from 2015. The decision was also maintained in 2016, and the case is – as we see it – already dealt with several times and over a period of very many years. In other words, careful evaluations have been carried out in several stages by the professional authorities, and the question addressed by the proposal is, in reality, whether to withdraw the authorisation through another round of consideration of the case. The issue of the establishment of maritime landfills will always mean that important social interests need to be emphasised against each other, and that it will often also mean that environmental considerations are set up and assessed against other important societal considerations. The centre party has always believed that an impact assessment should have been carried out before authorisation was granted. However, authorisation has been granted on the basis of a lengthy, comprehensive and thorough examination of the professional issues relating to the establishment of maritime landfills, which are dealt with in these cases. In view of this, we believe that there should be a high threshold for the conversion of administrative decisions and therefore do not support the proposal to re-examine the issue of the establishment of maritime landfills in these fjords. We also refer to letters from the Ministry of Climate and Environment, at the Ola Elvestuen Council, to the Energy and Environment Committee, dated 16 February 2018, where it states: «There is a comprehensive knowledge base underpinning the assessment of the application for authorisation under the pollution law. The environmental impact has been investigated and evaluated. The Pollution Act provides for a broad discretionary balance of benefits and disadvantages. An overall assessment of the environmental handicaps of the action and its societal benefits was made. Under the terms of the authorisation, authorisation was granted for the proposed activity.’;» At the same time, we must also take into account that the government imposes strict environmental requirements on individual permits, that the government ensures that environmental and resource conditions are closely monitored where authorisation is granted, and that these permits are withdrawn if monitoring exceeds the established environmental and resource base limits. On the basis of this, the Central Party does not see that there are any new elements in the matter that will allow us to take a second fight. That is why we do not support the proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1565	I would like to start by thanking the case rapporteur for a good job and a good introduction. In these days, the Nordics walk along the beaches and pick the garbage – tastumps, q-tips, shrimp residues, small black balls from the artificial grass tracks and much more. People are making a big effort. The spaceval from Sotra outside the Bergen woke us up. Every week, there are examples of fish and seabirds that have died from littering. The government boasts that it grants more money than anyone else for clean-up work. That's good. But sometimes it can be good to see what the other hand is doing. For what does it do? Well, it throws millions of tons of mining waste into two of our finest fjords, Fördefjorden and Repparfjorden. This is a fine-tuned mass that the Marine Research Institute fears will spread over longer distances than the mining companies say. Important spawning areas for cod will be lost. In January, the Swedish Nature Conservation Association sent a letter to the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment, pointing out the dangers of plastic screening from the planned mining activity. Explosive plastic is a significant problem. In particular, the beaches along the Jären have experienced the road construction of the Vegvesen in the area. The Minister for Climate and Environment has asked for an overview from the mining companies of how much plastic waste can be expected. Nussir ASA, one of the mining companies that is going to run the Reparfjord mine, says they can't determine how much plastic trash they will generate before mining is started. It's legal late. Today, there are a few countries that use the sea as garbage disposal. Most people have realized that out of sight is not the same thing as out of mind, and they have taken the consequences of seascaping destroying all life on the seabed. Unfortunately, Norway is one of the very few countries that continue to do so, together with Turkey, Papua New Guinea and Indonesia. At the same time as we are going to take the initiative in a fight against the pollution of the sea internationally, we are launching a new navigability project nationally. It's hypocritical to keep it going. While the Minister for Climate and Environment is standing on a beach in Oslo soil and picking garbage and the Prime Minister is standing in front of a camera and talking nicely about how important it is to save the sea, two mining companies are preparing to dump several hundred million tons of mining waste in two of our fjords – with the government's blessing. It's time that government parties also realize what most people have seen: there's enough garbage in fjord and sea now. I bring this up with proposal No. 2, which SV and MDG are behind in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1590	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1596	I would like to join in the praise of the President-in-Office, the representative of the Christian People's Party. This is the first case he is the case rapporteur for. There's a lot of commitment in the committee, and as committee leader, I'm very happy for both the commitment and seeing that new forces are coming. The matter we are dealing with here today is a matter in which the Left and the SV have agreed on a ban on maritime landfills. We proposed in 2015 that the issues of Repparfjorden and Fördefjorden should be dealt with by downgrading before emission permits could be granted. Earlier today, we have spent several hours discussing climate change and the road to 2030. The thing we're discussing here is more about classical nature protection, and it's important that the Storting spends time on it, because the loss of nature and the loss of natural diversity is also one of the challenges we're facing. So today's SV proposal is really a rematch where a test out about the Left – in government – has the opportunity to stop a large majority in the Stortinget and take a rematch from within the government. The left has joined the government to take the fight for the future, and to a lesser extent for the past. At Jelaua, we have just negotiated this, and we accept – which is actually confirmed by a large majority in this Chamber today – that the administrative decision has been taken here, that it has been confirmed, and that these two fjords must relate to that decision. But the platform says that no new emission permits should be granted, and that we should get more knowledge of what mining waste does to our fjords. So this is the short version of our position right here. We're going to get more knowledge of what waste under the sea surface has to say for the natural diversity of the sea. The virtues that are happening today linked to picking up plastic from the sea had not happened without many of us having gone many trips on the shores along the coast – or where I have gone, along Mjösa – for many years and picked plastics and waste. I am very happy that so many thousands today are out there and seeing the challenges that we are creating with pollution in the marine areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1607	We have a system problem. We have created an economy and a policy that continues to throw away waste and pollute where it is simplest and cheapest – almost completely without regard to the consequences for the people, animals and nature of the future. We dump greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, our plastic in the sea, environmental poisons in our rivers and mining waste in our feathers. Today Stortinget has the opportunity to save two living fjords. Fördefjorden and Repparfjorden provide many jobs today and is a room for a rich marine life. Nevertheless, it appears that the consideration of short-term profitability and the withdrawal of a limited resource is once again higher than the consideration of the resources that have the potential to provide life-based, activity and food forever. The Green Party believes that we need metals and minerals, and that important renewable industries will need them in the future, but we cannot accept that this value creation takes place in ways that destroy nature. Green innovation and innovation, for example, need to be added here. circular economy and better operating modes. Since the permission to dump mining waste in Fördefjorden and Repparfjorden was granted, information has been received and weaknesses have been identified in the assessment made when the original permits were granted. Firstly, it has been found that in the Fördefjord case, the economic gains for the local population are lower than previously assumed. This should in itself be enough to give a new assessment – an assessment we expect to take the major environmental impacts much more seriously than the previous one. In addition, Vista Analysis has produced a report that concludes that the uncertainty is too great to even say that dumping will go socio-economicly in favour. The environmental impact is in any case too great for the permit to be granted, but environmental pests are becoming even more stupid and are not even profitable. The consequences of the release of explosives into the sea were otherwise never assessed when the permits were originally granted. Now that even the Progress Party is against microplastics, we hope that the other parties here can support the proposals for a new assessment. Now plastic pollution in the sea is on the agenda as never before, and that's why we expect the parties to also be able to see the problems with the other environmental problems that affect our oceans and our fjords. Nanoplastic particles, heavy metals and other chemicals are here to be dumped right in our food tray. That is why the Greens are saying yes to a new assessment and no to irresponsible dumping of Norwegian coastal nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1620	The Ministry of Climate and Environment granted permission under the pollution law to the Nordic Mining mining project in Naustdal in 2015. The Environment Directorate granted authorisation under the pollution law to the Nussir mining project in Kvalsund in 2016. Both decisions were maintained by the King of State Council and the Ministry of Climate and Environment respectively in 2016. The decision to authorise these two cases has already been taken, and there is generally a high threshold for converting administrative decisions. The environmental impact has been investigated and evaluated. There is a comprehensive knowledge base on which the assessment of the application for authorisation under the pollution law is based and no new information has emerged that provides the basis for a re-examination of the cases in their entirety. The adjustments to the mining waste figures, workplaces and operating period provided by Nordic Mining in a study are not significant enough to provide a basis for reconsidering the case. The application process took into account uncertainties about workplace figures, residual masses and operational time. The Nordic Mining adjustments do not change the prerequisites for authorisation. The Environment Directorate will follow up both permits and will adjust the permit conditions if necessary. I believe both my position and the position of the Left in these two cases were well known when the decisions were taken, and as mentioned earlier, this has also been thoroughly discussed in the negotiations that were held at Jeløya. In the case of new landfills, it is established in the Jeløya platform that the government will investigate the consequences of a ban on new maritime landfills and for the first time no new permits shall be granted for maritime landfills during that period. The Jeleia Platform further states that the Mineral Law should be evaluated in order to ensure sustainable resource development and to ensure that environmental considerations are adequately addressed. The relationship between environmental and mineral legislation shall be assessed. A specific assessment shall be made of the adequacy of the waste disposal legislation in the mining industry, and the government shall assess the impact of a ban on marine landfills. This is a new policy, with which I am well pleased.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1635	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1640	I have a simple question to the Council of State Elvesuen. Even after new information has been provided in the cases after the decision has been taken, you will not turn it around. So the question is, what is it that the Left and the Government turn around in the question of allowing the use of Fördefjorden and Repparfjorden as a garbage dump for the mining industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1645	As it is now, there has been no change in a magnitude that makes it possible to reopen the case. Should there be a basis for reconsidering the matter, it must be because there are such major changes that there is a basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1650	Then I would like to ask the Council of State to specify what he puts in ‘great changes’. What is he actually talking about?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1655	It must be found that the damage or environmental disadvantages are significantly greater or different from what was expected at the time the authorisation was granted. It's hard to be more specific about what that would mean.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1660	A lot of things happen in this case and that also happens locally now. Another company, called Arctic Mineral Resources, has said that they are interested in an alternative project at Engebøjellet that is to extract grenade and that is not to be dumped in the spring. What does the Minister think about that?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1667	Such issues are regulated by the Mineral Act, which regulates extraction rights, and the law is administered by the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries. So it's hard for me to go into that particular problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1672	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1690	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1699	In this case, the Workers' Party and the Centre have proposed that the Storting should ask the Government to vote against the proposal that Statoil should change the name of Equinor at the Statoil General Assembly on 15 May. A majority of the Committee believes that this is a bad idea, as it violates important principles of state ownership. The success of state ownership in Norway is not based on the fact that the Storting should govern the individual company in detail and review the strategic decisions of the individual company. Statoil is an important company for Norway. Norway is one of the very few countries in the world that has managed their oil resources in a way that has been at the best for the community and has been an important contribution to one of the world’s best welfare countries. An important premise for this success is that the State has provided good and predictable framework conditions for Statoil, and that the State is a predictable and good owner who knows its visitation time. The State cannot or must not enter and govern the details of Statoil according to the ideas of some politicians. There is broad political agreement on important principles for the State's behaviour as owner. Important elements in this context include: that the Board of Directors is responsible for the development of clear objectives and strategies for the company within the framework of the statutes, and that the State has expectations of the company's performance, and for example: that the management board has overall responsibility for the management of the company and must perform an independent control function towards the management of the company on behalf of the owners. These principles are based on the fact that the State exercises its influence primarily in the general meeting and leaves the board and management to take the strategic decisions of the company. These principles shall contribute to a sound management of ownership that ensures the values of the country and contributes to the value creation of the companies in which it is owned. The company's wish to change its name is not a decision that is required to be submitted to the Stortinget. Under the Constitution, the management of ownership has been delegated to the department of the company. It is in cases of changes in the State's ownership and capital injection decisions that consent must be obtained from the Stortinget. A decision to change the name of the company is not a change that requires the consent of Stortinget. The size shall not interfere with business decisions of such a nature as the present wish to change their names. The requested change of name is justified for commercial and strategic reasons, and as the State exercises its ownership, such decisions shall be taken by the Board of Directors and not by the Stortinge. We believe it can create an unfortunate precedent if it becomes up to Stortingen to review the strategic and business decisions of Statoil's board. I am therefore pleased that the proposal from the Labour Party and the Central Party does not get a majority here today. Finally, this is not about whether you like the name Equinor or not. This is about how the state should act as owner.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1716	The Norwegian State oil company, later Statoil, was established by Stortinget on 14 June 1972, and later the statutes were also adopted in Stortinget, 1974. There was a definite reason why, in the very early oil age, a strong national company wanted to be built. One should have clear and clear public rules, but one should also have a Norwegian trader on the business side who would build skills and become a good competitor to and partner with international business. There was a political dispute about how oil policy was to be governed, but we came up with a model that, as also case rapporteur Bru mentioned, is probably the most successful way in the world to become a rich country based on raw materials, namely by avoiding extreme differences, avoiding over-consumption and corruption – things that many countries have seen. In the big story, which is a pretty great story of strong national control over a new opportunity, Statoil belongs at home. These are actually two debates. A debate is about ownership management principles, and the other is about what you think about the name. In principle, there are all possible combinations of those views. You can, for example: believe that the name suggestion is bad, but it is not up to the Storting to mean anything about it. Or you might think it's up to the Storting to think something about it, but the name is still okay. First of all, we believe that this is a matter of ownership. Me and the Workers' Party fully agree that there are some important administrative principles on the basis of which the Storting should interfere and not interfere, and there I believe there has gradually become quite a consensus in Norway. But the company's name is not a detail, it's not a trifle. It is not a purely commercial assessment when the company has a name that has just been created for very specific reasons here in this Chamber. That's why it belongs with the owner. The Management Board has itself notified this matter to the general meeting. And in the general assembly it is then the council of Søviknes, who sits here, but also sits in the general assembly, who has a decisive majority of 67 p.m. So that government – at the Søviknes Council – decides the outcome. We believe that in such a case, and not least when you have a minority government, it might be wise, in such an important question, to find a way to ensure that the majority of the majority of the population agrees. Then I'm going to acknowledge Søviknes for coming to the committee quickly when we asked about it, and I'm going to express his view, and out of it comes a position where we go in with the Center Party so that the Storting will decide to ask the government to vote against at the General Assembly, as Statoil is a company we are so happy that we think it should continue to be called Statoil. Then I will address the proposal that we are promoting with the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1733	The representative Espen Barth Eide has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1738	Statoil has been – and is – an important company and brand in order to safeguard the interests of the community in the oil and gas resources on Norwegian soil since its establishment in 1972. The name represents an important part of Norwegian oil and industrial history and is also one of the country’s most famous brands. There's no doubt that Statoil is more than just a company. It is also an institution that tells the story of how Norway managed large gas and oil resources for the benefit of the community and that has contributed to the welfare state we know today. The centre party believes that the need for a change of name is too poorly investigated and justified. There is no doubt that it would have been more fortunate if the Council of State had provided a better and wider anchoring in elected bodies for the process and new names. The proposal for a new name shall be promoted at the General Assembly of Statoil on 15 May. The Norwegian Government has stated that it supports the proposal and will vote in favour of it at the General Assembly. What the company should be called is a clear matter of ownership and not a matter for the board and the department to decide. I find it strange that Statoil chose to publish this only two months before it is to be adopted at the general meeting. This has meant that there has been no political process around the matter, which should have been quite obvious since the state is the largest owner. I also think it is regrettable that it has been said in several debates in the media that the trade union in Statoil is behind a name change. We do not know that is correct, and it is clear that the Council of State here is misinformed, which testifies to the fact that the matter should have been better resolved and informed even more. Among other things, we have see that the trade union has pointed out that both timing and costs are an appeal point, but also that they want to distance themselves from both state and oil. Statoil is one of Norway’s strongest brands — high awareness and strong associations are not just tossing away. It's simply a waste of resources. It is the people who are the dominant owner of Statoil. It is the government – and in the last round of the Biggest – that manages this. The government is a minority government and should therefore address this in the Storting. In view of this, the Central Party believes that the issue of a possible change of name at Statoil should be postponed until the matter has been explained and discussed properly in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1753	Statoil has, over the years, done a lot of stupid things that deserve criticism. They invested heavily in tar sands in Canada – a piggy project without a side. Statoil has also run campaigns to drill in some of the most vulnerable sea areas we have, such as outside the Lofoten, the West Sea and Senja. All of this deserves strong criticism, and it also calls for stronger government on the part of the state. In the past, SV has been largely alone in demanding a stronger state governance of Statoil – when they have done such stupid things. I am pleased to record that there are now several parties that want to intervene with Statoil when they do stupid things, and I am pleased that we will perhaps take the debates in Stortinget in the future. I'm not going to mean so much about the name change, but it might be possible to do it cheaper than what Statoil has added up to. But as I've shown in my post, there are more important things to criticize Statoil for.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1760	I don't think this is an opportunity to criticize Statoil. The great story, which the representative Espen Barth Eide drew up, is essentially right: a successful state-owned company that has managed resources based on the knowledge that you have had at all times, for the benefit of the community. On the other hand, I believe that this is an opportunity to criticise the representatives of the proposal. Because we've had a hearing in the committee, and there was absolutely no one coming to the hearing, and it doesn't testify to any great public call that this is a change of name that the people oppose. I would probably prefer to say that it reminds me a little bit of the old, greasy couple who get a little swirled when the great-grandchild, or maybe the only child, will move out of the childhood home. In the light of the debate we have had earlier here today, that we are going to renew and create a balance, focus on green solutions and green conversion – we expect slightly less oil revenue to solve the green shift – this is perhaps the real day to shout a little hurrah for Statoil, who has taken this choice on his own: that one will throw the oil out of the name and replace it with balance and balance – and even add a 'nor', which puts a clearer mark on the Norwegian identity. So I think we should comfort ourselves that the logo turns red, while the switch turns green.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1772	I thank the case spokesperson for a good report on a matter on which we have spent a good time in the committee. We have even had a hearing, and I must also say that I thought the Council of State in the hearing responded quite well to how he has addressed the change of name that Statoil wants to make. There was no one else on that ring, so I had an extra hour and a half, and I found out that I could 'google' a little in other projects that Statoil has involved in where it has been about state control. So I looked at the number for the oil sand project, which the red-green government wouldn't use state ownership to break against. They are now criticising and asking questions about an investment in the 100 million dollar class. That time, Statoil spent 10 billion. NOK, and it was an investment of up to 100 billion. kr – not in the direction of becoming a wider energy company or becoming a company that can contribute to the transformation that we have discussed up and into thought in the hall before today, but to go the whole other way. Now the same parties – except SV – want the Stortinget to enter and actively own the state-owned companies that are listed on the stock exchange and where the strategic orientation is at stake. That's what I thought was a little special. I just want to say that I think this is a matter that belongs to the company, and the board of directors of the company, to stand in. It will be exciting to follow this company in the future. We are proud of the history of Statoil, and we are pleased with the potential of this company to contribute to a green transformation. But then one also has to think more like an energy company, and I think that's wise. There's a lot of things you can do in the storeroom, but I think when it comes to governing the name choices of state companies, it might not be the best place to start.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1784	The Greens believe Equinor to be a fine name, and we promise to remind Statoil – sorry, Equinor – of what balance, equi, is about. That's basically what I was going to say, but since we're in a name discussion, I can't help myself. Instead of proposing to override and influence commercial companies on their own operations, politicians could spend time looking at institutions that we control ourselves. So I would like to make three suggestions: we should change the name of the Ministry of Oil and Energy to the Ministry of Energy. And the Søviknes Council may change the title of Energy Minister. And the next time we make an oil message, a petroleum message, it shouldn't be called An industry for the future, but – and here you get a free tip – An industry from fossil times. Or another tip: An overripe industry for green conversion.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1790	The President assumes that the representative did not promote these proposals, but he told us about them.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1795	The President has understood it quite correctly.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1801	Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1806	Initially, I have to thank the President for that clarification, because otherwise this matter would have come up on a certain comical siding. I presented Statoil's proposal for a change of name to the Energy and Environment Committee's hearing on 19 April this year. However, let me briefly in this will repeat the process that has been until this day. In line with Statoil’s request in January 2018, a process was initiated within the company, by group management and board, related to a possible name change. We agreed that the process could continue. Then Statoil reported to the Ministry of Oil and Energy in March that they actually wanted to propose a new name. We discussed this at government level; I discussed it with the three party leaders who are in government. We chose to focus on the principle: would we accept changing names? We did not enter into the real processes associated with the process of developing a new name for the company – the board of directors and the group management. We're recording that Statoil is clear on what Equinor means to them. Equinor consists of ‘equi’, which, as has been mentioned here, is the starting point for words such as ‘equal’, ‘equality’ and ‘equilibrium’, i.e. balance, equivalence and balance, and of ‘norm’, which give the company an identity that clearly indicates where the company comes from and that one has a proud Norwegian origin. The board and the group management have been very clear and clear that this is a business and strategic positioning that follows up the company's previously launched strategy to become a broad energy company. It is therefore intended to position itself commercially and strategically against investors and partners — and with regard to future recruitment. We have concluded that the government should not oppose it, and that is why we want to support this change of name. Map of the constitutional framework: The case rapporteur also explained to them, in relation to the Constitution and the framework for the notification of ownership in Chapter 8.1.1. It is obvious that change of name in itself is not a matter that is required to be submitted to the Storting for consent, even if it is to be dealt with at the General Assembly of Statoil, linked to the fact that an amendment to Section 1 of the Statute is required here. I am therefore pleased that a large majority of the committee in its position agrees with my view on the proper procedure for the state to deal with this matter. With regard to the Workers' Party and the proposal of the Centre's party on the matter we now have to deal with, and the submissions that have been made today by the representative Barth Eide and the representative Borch, it asks some questions about what the Workers' Party and the Centre really mean. On the one hand, we talk about anchoring – which could, of course, have been done informally – in Stortinget, but we go in and want a anchoring in the form of a formal decision-making process in Stortinget, we break with important principles for the exercise of state ownership. On the other hand, through the inauguration of Espen Barth Eide, it has now become clear that the Workers' Party does not really want a change of name, but will keep Statoil. So you go straight into it and you're going to think about a business and strategic decision that we clearly believe lies primarily with the board and the group management, even though the matter is to be formally dealt with at the general meeting because of the amendment to the statutes. With that, I would just like to stress that with this treatment and what we have concluded in the past, I will vote in favour of the change of name to Statoil – from Statoil to Equinor – and thus underpin the strategy that the company has chosen to look into the future and build itself up as a large, wide international energy company.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1825	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1830	I want to clarify something: We, from the Labour Party, do not believe that this matter should be dealt with in Stortinget for formal reasons either. What we have pointed out is that we believe that when the government, at the Council of State, manages such an important issue as we believe this is, there are ways of making sure that there is a broad political uprising about it. Just so it's clear. My question to the Søviknes Council of State is: Does he himself – regardless of what he now says about the formal – mean that «Equinor» is a good name, as well as «Statoil» indicates what this company is actually doing? Last I checked, it was mainly owned by the state and driven mainly by oil and gas, and that's probably all reason to think that's what they're going to do for a long time, even though we're giving full support to the spread of other energy sources. Is it wise to replace such a well-established brand name?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1843	Obviously, when you first hear the new name, you wonder how this will be linked to the company’s real activities, which are related to energy – not only oil and gas, but also renewable energy. At the same time, this is a habit, and I feel that Statoil has a good story to tell about balance, balance and equivalency, which they are now focusing on through ‘equi’, and the identity they can build by having ‘nor’ in their name. They are in a process of change where they take part in the major transformation that is taking place within the energy field globally, where they are moving more away from fossil energy sources to renewable energy sources and are going to become a broad energy company. Then I believe that «Equinor» is a good picture of the balance that you are seeking here.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1848	The discussion now shows a great deal that this is a task of the board of directors and the company's rental. But this is going to be dealt with at the General Assembly, and then my question is: What matters at a general meeting of a company in which the state owns should the state that owns not care, if one wants to remain within the ownership principle? My approach to this is that all the issues that are being dealt with at a general meeting are there for one reason, namely that they are ownership matters. This case, of changing names, has to be dealt with at the General Assembly, and now one has said that it is contrary to the principle of ownership if the state, which owns, has a sense of it. So I want to know, what kind of stuff in a general meeting is a owner not allowed to say anything about?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1855	In summary, I can answer that very simply: there are no issues at a general meeting that the owners should have no idea about. Of course we should have it – in this case on behalf of the state ownership of Statoil. The question is whether this is a matter which requires that it be raised in the Storting or whether the principles laid down in the Basic Law and in the Notice of Ownership should be followed, that ownership of the State's portfolio should be exercised by the Ministry responsible for the respective companies. That is what is special in this matter: raising a case to the Stortinget – Parliament – to discuss something that I and the majority of the population are now clear that should be attached to the Council of State that is responsible, in the case of Statoil, it is signed. We, me and the government, have then chosen to base the business and strategic assessments made by the board and the group management when they want to back up their strategy by changing their names.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1860	The state's principle of ownership is a matter between the state and the companies in general, and I am glad that the Council of State confirms what he now confirms, that the state that owns can have an opinion at the General Assembly on the name election. It is therefore wrong what is in the setting that it is in conflict with good ownership. This case is really about a question between the Storting and a minority government, and of course you don't like a minority government that the Storting interferes. But does the Council still believe that this is contrary to good ownership, and what principle of ownership is it against? Or is this simply a discussion that is quite legitimate about the relationship between big business and government?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1865	I clearly believe that it is contrary to good ownership management that there is a need to enter and have strong opinions on a change of name related to business and strategic positioning. It has been delegated to the government by the responsible State Council to be responsible for the exercise of ownership within the framework of the Basic Law and the ownership notification, and then the examples of matters that must be dealt with by the Storting, relating to the granting authority that the Storting has, and of course for the purchase and sale of holdings, are primarily. Changing the name of a company – if the representative really believes that a process should be carried out in the Storting, it becomes a very special form of ownership of a listed company in which the State owns two thirds of the shares and private operators own one third of the shares.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1870	I think it is relevant to go into this, all the time the majority of the Stortinget with a wide pen states that, in the opinion of the majority, it will be ‘in violation of state principles of good ownership’. Then the ten principles of good ownership are mentioned in the setting, and then I wonder: What of the ten principles is this against?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1876	In the indications given in the ownership notification, which refer back to the Basic Law provisions on the exercise of state ownership, the preservation of the values of the state, it is pointed out what matters it is natural for the Storting to deal with. Then a change of name in a completely different division than the purchase and sale of holdings and, where appropriate, the injection of capital into a company. So here I believe that the representative from the Center Party is completely wrong when he is now trying to question whether this is in line with good ownership practice. If we in listed companies are to act with such detailed management by Stortinget, I believe that state ownership is on the wrong track.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1881	I have a follow-up to Mr Pollestad's very good question and the clarification that now came: that this is therefore a matter for the General Assembly, and that it is absolutely legitimate that the Council of State, and the Government of the Council of State, have a vision and must vote either in favour or against. It was very clearly established now, and it updates the question – now we already know that the Council of State and the Government will vote in favour: will the Council of State vote in favour because it is in line with good practice? Or will the Council of State vote in favour because the Council of State thinks it is the right choice, that is, that he actively supports the new name Equinor on what was formerly called Statoil?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1886	Both-and: both because I think it is right to listen to the board and the group management on a matter of name – which is supposed to support under a strategy for Statoil, which now goes from being a pure oil and gas company to a broad energy company that focuses both on oil and gas and renewable energy sources – and because I believe it is right for the company to change its name and look at the next 50 years and bring the company into a new era of time where we have a different global perspective on energy than it has had in the previous 50 years. Statoil has served us well as a company, and the name has given us a clear direction in terms of state ownership – right now only with two thirds and not fully – and “oil”, which has been the main challenge up until now. But now the company is entering a new period – the future, the 50 years ahead – where renewable energy is also needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1891	That's the line change. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1898	Statoil is both the symbol of and a locomotive in the prosperity development we have had in Norway in recent decades. And name means something, name is about identity, it's part of the history of Norway, it's part of the history of Rogaland and Stavanger that lies in the name. Statoil is a company that is mainly owned by the state, and mainly operates with oil, and then Statoil is a pretty ok name for the company. But what I think is serious about this is that the majority do what the Right Party and the Progress Party do when they don't want to discuss important issues about ownership; they just say it's contrary to the ownership principle. But it is not contrary to the ownership principle that owners should have a view of the name. It is a matter for the General Assembly, and as the Council of State has just confirmed – the state that owns may have a point of view at the General Assembly, and should have a point of view, on all matters that are being dealt with there. So it's wrong when it says that «the competence to make such decisions shall lie with the company's board of directors and management». No, it's at the General Assembly. It's a matter of ownership. I think it is very, very unfortunate that one mixes this together, and I thought that the case-speaker in his main post bombed roughly in the understanding of the state ownership and how it should be done. So there is no principle of ownership that says anything that the Storting may have a point of view or not. It says something about it, that the exercise of ownership is with the government, and there is no doubt about it either. But one is away from the ownership principle if Stortinget tells the government what the government should mean. Then one is within parliamentarianism, one is within the state constitution and governance and the relationship between big business and government, and that is something other than the principle of good state ownership. And there I thought the plural should be clearer and clearer. Yes, maybe we should only have had a debate if we thought this was a good or bad name for the company. I think Equinor is a name that doesn't say anything, it's maybe on the verge of being a little bad name, and I thought Statoil should still be called Statoil. What I mean is that there is a completely legitimate right of a person who has a proxy to vote for, and then the government – if she gets the majority in the Stortinget against her – takes care of it at the General Assembly. It's a completely tidy ownership management, so I hope we can have a discussion about the matter, and not a shadow box about the wrong use of the formula.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1912	This case is about Norwegian history. In the last 80 years, there may be two milestones in Norwegian history that are more prominent than any other. It is the reconstruction of our entire country after World War II with a strong welfare state for all, and it was the active election that was taken in this Chamber that the values of the North Sea would benefit new generations, ordinary peoples and the community. It is quite obvious that Statoil's history has been a crucial part of the important Norwegian history. It affects the lives of almost everyone in Norway today, and is an example for other countries in the world of being able to have a policy that balances differences and ensures that natural resources do not just happen to a few but, on the contrary, benefits many. Terje Søviknes from the Party of Advancement and the government said it quite clearly: you want to remove the ‘state’ from the name. And that's not so strange, because that's what the Progress Party has always meant in the policy on our natural resources in the North Sea. Carl I. Hagen wanted to sell the oil resources in the North Sea on the rot. Luckily, it was the visionary elected representatives who said that these resources belong to all of us. Today's debate should really be about getting inspiration together from the elected elected representatives who preceded us in new areas. We have just had a discussion about how we can develop new energy, new industry, which also reduces climate emissions. And that reminds me of one thing, that this is not a matter that is isolated only about one company, no, rather on the contrary. When Sylvi Listhaug was Minister of Agriculture, one of her most important things was to sell Statskog. It is obvious that this is about deep political disagreements, about what democracy is going to do to determine and how values are to be distributed. I want to say it so clearly that there are some people who from this pulpit have almost ridiculed that people have an involvement in this matter. Well, then it's time to talk to those who have been mechanics, welders, who have insisted that these values should benefit us all, and we need to get inspiration for new and forward-looking industrial policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1923	Towards the end of this debate, which we will hardly extend much more, I would like to say that I very much agree with the summary just given by the representative Pollestad. I feel that the exchange, not least between him and the Council of State, to which the Council of State came with some good and precise answers – I want to acknowledge it – and made it very clear that it is actually such that the government has the right to have an opinion. They can vote both in favour and against, and they can decide whether the proposal is good or not. There are different views of the Søviknes and I, but there is a completely legitimate disagreement. It is perfectly legitimate for the Council of State to believe that Equinor is a good name and that I believe that Statoil is a better name. There's probably a little different ideological approach to both state and other things in that discussion. But that means that what's in the majority position is not right. There's the argument that this is something politicians should stay away from and leave to the board. But the board itself has asked for this matter to come to the general meeting. Then those who have the right to vote in the general meeting must have the right to vote on it, otherwise there is no point in taking it to the general meeting. That's an important clarification. This is a perfectly legitimate question to have a political view of. Then we have also underlined, and it is important for me to say now, that in this there is no criticism primarily of Statoil's rule. It's also the law of Statoil's government to think that they're going to be called something else. We believe that, especially in a situation of minority government, it is wise at the moment to manage ownership on behalf of the state, which many different governments have managed since 1972, to ensure that there is more than minimal upsurge in this. We were told by the Council of State that the Council of State had asked the party leaders of the three parties that make up the government. So they haven't asked, for example. Christian People's Party, which obviously is not particularly plagued by it, or some leaders in the opposition whether they also agreed. I think that experience is that both current government and future governments can show some wisdom on issues that have such long historical lines and not just use the occasion just when you get it drummed through by a majority. We see where this is carrying, and where this is going to end. We're going to vote in line with what we've proposed, and then of course we're all going to deal with what's finally going to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1936	Just cards to the last post: I would like to stress that we have been clear from the government – when we have been asked, as we always do in matters that are going up in the general assembly, because we have two-thirds ownership – that we have taken a decision on the principle that it is okay that Statoil changes its name. And we have chosen not to enter into the process that we actually believe lies with the board and the group management to run, namely to decide on Equinor or any other name that might have been involved in that process. That's why I think there's a clear difference between what's being claimed from the pulpit, and what's happened in the case, namely that the board and the group management believe for business and strategic reasons that this is a proper name change. Then we have accepted it and believe that it is actually up to the board and the group management to have the decisive decision on it. We vote for it and support it at the general meeting because it is formally a change in the section 1 of the statutes of Statoil. Finally, I have to take a strong distance from parts of the content of the statements by the representative Sandtrøen. This is not about party politics, it is not about the Progress Party's view of state ownership and the management of Norwegian natural resources. We are all proud of the administrative model we have built up in Norway, which is also reflected in the name of Statoil in the future, namely Equinor – a balance between exploiting natural resources for jobs, creating community values and taking into account environmental and natural values. What is important to emphasise is that we have had many discussions throughout the history of how to manage the oil and gas resources on a Norwegian base. We are constantly being met with the play around Carl I. Hagen's position in his time to sell parts of these resources in another way. Then one can very easily replicate with the big agreement that fortunately never happened, where one would exchange shares on Norwegian base linked to oil and gas for ownership interests in Volvo, i.e. the Norwegian-Swedish discussion, where the Workers' Party was central. But it's going to hit each other in the head with completely meaningless discussions associated with something decades back in time. Now this is about the future and what Statoil – after each Equinor – will be going on. They shall be a broad energy company following international developments in the energy sector, where both oil and gas and renewable energy are to be operated – for the benefit of the community in Norway and the income of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1947	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1963	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1972	The Left has promoted five representative proposals which have been discussed by the Municipal Committee. None of them will be repeated in the setting. Proposal No. 1 is about allowing dual citizenship in Norway. It is a decision that the Stortinget has already imposed on the government and that has been at the hearing. The majority of the Committee requests that the legislative proposal be sent to the Stortinget as soon as possible. Proposal No. 2 is a common Nordic citizenship – no less – and the creation of a common Nordic ID. The Committee has pointed out that the work on the Norwegian ID and e-ID system has been under way – it is best to say it nicely. It should have been clear a long time ago, but it has not been. The former Minister of Justice has confirmed that this is due to poor governance by both the Ministry of Justice and the Police Directorate. It's important that this gets in place. Then you might have to discuss the matter of common e-ID further, but common citizenship in the Nordic context, I don't think there's a majority in favour of the Stortinget. In addition, it is a proposal to set up its own centres to enable newly arrived Norwegian EU/EFTA citizens to complete the registration process in one place and to get help with the registration process. There the Committee points out that there are five service centres for foreign workers and further to the positions and proposals of different parties to combat social dumping and to assist the migrant workers who come here so that they are not exposed to unacceptable social dumping and crime. It's important to have systems that work for those who come, because it's nice that people come, and it should be done in proper forms that are easy to understand. It is proposed to extend the voluntary membership of the population to all Norwegian citizens irrespective of the employer. There the government has notified back that they consider it not appropriate to carry out such an extension and that the arrangements currently in place are acceptable. The Committee has agreed to this. Finally, legislative changes are proposed to simplify marriages between Norwegian citizens and EU/EFTA citizens. In a globalized world, love is found across borders – and it's fine. But we haven't seen any reason to go further with these proposals, but on the contrary, point out that it's important that the marriages that are made are in line with both our laws and the laws that exist in the home country.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e1987	The representatives of the Left have made proposals to facilitate movement between Norway and the rest of Europe. The intentions are probably good, but the implementation of the sum of these is not to be recommended – at least it is the opinion of the Centre Party. Norway should not give up checks at the border to the extent requested by the representatives of the Left. The proposal for a representative proposes the establishment of dual citizenship. We know this is a matter that is already on its way to Stortinget after a hearing has been conducted. In the Central Party, we are far from sure that we will support the introduction of dual citizenship. We know that very many already achieve this, but then because they come from countries where there is no opportunity to be disbanded from citizenship. Citizenship entails both rights and obligations. Through our citizenship, we are part of a community where we gain protection and rights, but also with demands for loyalty to the country. It can be said that the principle that one can only be a citizen of one country is already broken by the fact that many become Norwegian citizens despite the fact that they also have a different citizenship. However, there is a adaptation to ensure that immigrants who have lived in Norway over a long period of time and who feel like Norwegians should not be prevented from getting citizenship if their country of origin does not solve them from their old age. It's going to be different if we say that it's totally okay that the inhabitants are Norwegian and Japanese, Norwegian and Russian, or Norwegian and American. Then we must also accept that they have loyalty to two countries and rights in two countries. I wonder if we've thought through the consequences. The representatives also propose to introduce a common Nordic citizenship with the establishment of a common Nordic ID card as the first step on the road. An overall committee rejects the proposal, and I am pleased about it. We introduced the Nordic passport union in the 1950s. We've been moving freely between the Nordic countries for generations. There is no need for a common cover on the passport as well. Another issue is the continuous suspension of national ID cards, which have been working on for years, but which are not yet in place. It's time for it to be cleaned up in this. The government should concentrate on putting in place national ID cards rather than working for a common Nordic ID card. The SUA centres are a positive contribution to the security of persons entitled to seek employment in Norway. Five of these have been established in Norway. Their website refers to the fact that the centres provide information on employment rights and obligations and that they can assist in reporting on critical work environment conditions. So they are solving the challenge of the proposal from the Left. The fifth and last proposal concerns legislative changes to simplify marriages between Norwegian citizens and EU/EFTA citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2008	More and more Norwegians are staying abroad for a longer time to take up education or work. It is a desirable development, and we in Europe have made it possible for us to move easily between different countries. However, the threshold for returning to Norway may be high and the possibility of maintaining economic ties is weak. The left therefore believes that there is a need to make it easier for individuals and families taking advantage of the freedom to gain experience from other European countries. There is a need to lower the threshold for those who want to return home after a time abroad. I am therefore pleased that at last there is an opportunity to allow dual citizenship in Norway. Here we've been hanging out for other countries that it's natural to compare with, like Denmark and Sweden. Many today are related to more than one country. Nordics who are educated and work abroad for periods, and who may start a family in another country, can have a desire for a different citizenship without letting go of Norwegians. The proposal to allow dual citizenship only received SV's and Left's votes when we proposed it in 2015. I am pleased that it is now a majority and that the government will make legislative proposals on this. It is an important breakthrough for the Left and not least for many Nordics abroad. The Left in the proposal for a representative calls for the establishment of its own centres where newcomers from Norway and EU/EFTA citizens can complete the registration process in one place and where help can be provided with the registration process. The process of moving back to Norway is long and bureaucratic, especially for EU citizens, and there is little central evidence on which papers are required and what needs to be filled in to register. While the Committee emphasises the fight against social dumping in the workplace, this measure was primarily intended as a simplification measure. I am pleased that the Committee acknowledges that there are people who have come out unlucky in terms of rights in the public interest at a foreign residence. However, the Committee considers that it is not appropriate to open up voluntary membership of the public in such situations. The rules for the recognition of marriages between Norwegian citizens and other EEA citizens vary depending on bilateral agreements between countries. For example, Norway has an old agreement with Belgium, where the EU capital, Brussels, is not insignificant. Norway’s agreement with Belgium is old, which makes it difficult for a Norwegian to marry in Brussels, while there is a narrow case for a German, because Germany has an up-to-date agreement with Belgium. This is a completely unnecessary bureaucracy. We would have needed a review and a clearing up of bilateral agreements. This is not about coercion, bigami or the marriage of minors. It is a little disappointing that the committee is doing this to deal with bigamies, forced marriages and minors. This is primarily about making it easier for people to move between Norway and the rest of Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2023	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2039	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2048	I would like to thank the Committee for a good cooperation. Asylum policy involves us, and we are committed to taking responsibility as a nation. The proposers in this case refer to the economically difficult situation in Greece and the large number of refugees and untreated asylum cases there. They continue to ask the government to grant exemptions from the Dublin agreement to Greece, so that no asylum seekers are returned there. The proposers want the government to draw the instructions on the interpretation of Section 32 of the Foreign Affairs Act – the transfer of asylum seekers to Greece under the Dublin III Regulation – so that the government can offer asylum treatment here in Norway. It is important that Norway takes responsibility and contributes to a better future for people on the run. At the same time, we know that there are binding international solutions. According to the latest European Commission report, the situation in Greece is improving. The country has received substantial funds to build up its asylum system, and Norway has been an important contributor through the EEA funds. Last year, UDI considered that the situation was such that it was possible to consider returning asylum seekers to Greece. The Ministry of Justice and Security agreed with the UDI's assessment that it would be unfortunate on a general basis to stop Dublin return. If we look at practice, in 2017, 44 requests were sent from Norway to Greece. Three of them were accepted. On the other hand, 150 requests were received and 94 were accepted for transfer to Norway. Norway should accept 1 500 asylum seekers as a voluntary contribution to the EU relocalisation programme. A total of 1509, of which 693 came from Greece. The majority of the Committee does not support the proposal to introduce a general stoppage of the Dublin return to Greece. However, even if you do not go in to stop the return to Greece on a general basis, UDI should make thorough individual assessments. Freedom of movement within the Schengen countries requires a regulated division of responsibilities between the European States, and the Dublin Agreement is an important part of this. The majority of the Committee considers that there should not be a special regime for return to Greece from the Norwegian side. The Norwegian contribution must be made in a different way from that requested in this draft representative. With this I recommend the setting of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2071	Just a few brief comments. Greece has, of course, received substantial funds to build up its asylum system. The document has estimated that 475 million will be received in 2014-2020. the euro, a non-negligible sum, from different organisations. Norway, as the rapporteur also mentioned, has contributed support, inter alia: by means of the EEA funds. We have also noticed that the Agency for Asylum, EASO, as it is called, and the European Commission has followed Greece very closely, and there are many reports on it. In the latter, from 8 December 2016, the European Commission states that Greece has put in place the necessary institutional and legal structures for a well-functioning asylum system. So that's what the European Commission says. The Labour Party believes that the major challenges, of course, that Greece is facing in this area, we must recognise and be very alert to and follow closely. However, it would be unfortunate to establish a Norwegian practice that deviates from that established in the other countries participating in the Dublin Regulation and of which we are also part. Against this background, we believe that Norway should therefore not set up its own practice, as it could rock the entire Dublin system, and it would be very unfortunate if it were to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2082	It is a pleasure to see that a large majority is behind the position in this matter. It is important for Norway to pursue a policy that takes account of the need to limit the flow to Norway and that is in line with other countries’ policies. Norway shall not have a policy that is felt to be softer than that of other policies in Europe. The purpose of the Dublin Agreement is to prevent asylum seekers from travelling from country to country in the hope of obtaining asylum. It is not good for the asylum institution, and it is not good for asylum seekers. If we're going to prevent this, it's important that we use the tools we have. For a period of time, due to the circumstances in Greece, it has not been appropriate to return applicants there. Of course, it is a problem that some countries get a heavy burden because of their geographical location, but the consequences of asylum seekers travelling from country to country in the pursuit of asylum are more negative. It is important for Norway to remedy the situation in those countries with a high burden. Norway and the EU have made a powerful contribution with support to Greece in order to build a functioning asylum system. It is an overall committee which notes that the situation in Greece is now much better. This is why the Progress Party believes it is now in place to resume the practice of the Dublin Agreement. Not only has Norway contributed to the development of the reception system in Greece. We have also voluntarily accepted 1,500 refugees through the EU relocalisation programme, 693 of which were from Greece. This is thus at the top of Norway’s efforts in a number of other areas. When the Committee visited UNHCR earlier this year, Norway was overwhelmed with praise because we contribute more than most in a wide range of areas related to refugees. In Norway, there are increasing signs that we have over time accepted more than we are able to integrate. Therefore, everything points to the fact that the only right thing to do is to make use of Dublin returns, as far as possible. It is important to note that the Norwegian authorities will follow the situation in Greece closely, and I have full confidence that this will be implemented in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2097	The proposal of representatives from the SV and Red calls on Norway to derogate from the Dublin agreement with Greece, so that no asylum seekers are sent there. Proposalers believe that all asylum seekers scheduled to return to Greece as a result of the Dublin Agreement should be offered asylum treatment in Norway. As the proposers point out, the Dublin Agreement is a cooperation between the EU countries, Switzerland, Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway that all asylum seekers are treated in only one of the Dublin countries. The agreement therefore provides for asylum seekers who come to Norway but are already registered in another country to be returned to be treated there. Norway’s stop in the transfers to Greece from 2010 has a background in the judgment of the Human Rights Court, which said that the transfer to Greece should be stopped according to critical conditions in the Greek asylum system at that time. The Dublin countries complied with the request and carried out a similar practice by stopping the return to Greece. The situation has changed since the European Commission took the initiative in 2017 to resume transfers to Greece in line with the Dublin Regulation. The government and UDI have implemented this change of practice. The proposers believe that Norway should follow a different practice from that of the other Dublin countries, given the difficult situation in Greece. The country receives very many refugees and is struggling with major economic problems. There are tough conditions in Greece, both for refugees and for the inhabitants of the country. It has to be taken into account. However, the question is whether it is correct for Norway to establish its own practice in the follow-up to the Dublin Agreement. I don't think that makes sense. The centre party cannot therefore support the proposals. Together with the Workers' Party we have a note where we justify this. We believe it would be unfortunate to establish a Norwegian practice that deviates from that established in other countries with which we cooperate. The Central Party underlines the need to support Greece by strengthening humanitarian work and by accepting refugees from the large and large refugee camps in the country. Norway’s contribution to Greece and humanitarian aid to the refugee camps must take place, in particular, through both the EEA funds and the aid budget. We see that the EU now assesses changes in its transfers internally so that it goes more to countries with major challenges of receiving refugees, and less to those Eastern European countries that have benefited from large transfers for many years. Such assessments must be possible when we agree on the allocation of funds Norway has undertaken to pay to the EU through the so-called EEA quota. The centre party also believes that, through the reception of refugees, including quota refugees through the UN or participation in the EU relocalisation programme, attention should be paid to remedying the situation in Greece. We must also contribute through the Norwegian aid to facilitate the humanitarian situation in the refugee camps.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2114	There's a long and very big refugee crisis going on. Europe and Norway build walls rather than cooperation. Refugees are being caught in war zones and in overburdened neighbourhoods. And to all those who have been up here and said that they should follow closely, I can tell you that the flow of refugees has increased again to Greece from Turkey in the last few months. The situation is getting worse and worse. What does Norway do? In fact, Norway decides that Europe’s perhaps poorest countries, which take the greatest burden, will also have to accept asylum seekers who have come to Norway because they have a stamp in the passport from Greece. I just remind you that SV has repeatedly suggested that the government should take its own initiative to renegotiate the Dublin Agreement, so that there will be more sharing of responsibilities. I hear that someone chooses to use the word burden-sharing -- that's how you look at helping people who have a hard time. There has been no enthusiasm for this, because each country is now withdrawing and blocking the possibility of these agreements where responsibility is to be shared. That is why Norway should not remove a scheme we have had since 2010. So it's not to set up a new system, which people are also up here saying, or establishing a new practice, it would be to keep the practice we had from 2010. Yes, it is true that Greece’s asylum-seekers treatment system has improved, but it is more than 60 000, and it is increasing every day in one of the countries of Europe with a debt that is so heavy that they have had to go — really — on the welfare systems of ordinary workers in the country. Here Norway could have played a small symbolic role and taken an initiative, as a responsible rich country, saying that at least we are not doing this. Furthermore, we should take the initiative to re-establish the re-location mechanism with which Norway participated. That's good, but now it's over, and now Italy and Greece are left with this responsibility and are responding because the Dublin agreement is the way it is. And when countries behave the way Norway does, the agreement is going to be the way it is, and then we can risk it being razed again, as it did when the refugees started coming. What has happened in the meantime is that now several countries have built up with barbed wire to stop the refugees on European soil. I would appeal to the parties sitting in this room to lift their eyes a little bit and see if the small contribution could at least be something to put refugee policy on a slightly more correct track.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2123	The representative probably has some suggestions she wants to raise.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2128	Yes, I would like to include the suggestions in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2133	The representative Karin Andersen then addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2138	There will be far fewer refugees in Norway now than it has in recent years. The reasons for this may be more, but at least one reason is not that the number of people on the run is reduced. Millions of people are still on the run because of war and conflict. And we who live in Norway must take responsibility – take responsibility by accepting more quota refugees and ensuring that those who come to Norway and who have a real need for protection are allowed to stay here, and to ensure better solutions within Europe. In this way, we can help those in need of protection while ensuring that more countries in Europe take responsibility. The issue we are discussing today is whether we should send Dublin people back to Greece. Greece is in a very critical state. In 2015, the asylum system collapsed because of the many refugees that came, but also because of the economic situation in the country. Europe then took responsibility and signed an agreement to relocate refugees, among others. from Greece. And Norway has fulfilled its obligations with regard to that agreement, but it is far from all countries in Europe that have done so. There are currently many refugees who should have been relocated, which are still in Greece. I therefore believe it would be both unsolvable and irresponsible to send Dublin people back there. The return of Dublin people to Greece may constitute a threat to chain-refoulement and a breach of our international obligations. The Dublin Agreement allows Norway not to return refugees who have applied for protection to another country in Europe. It is this exception that the Christian People's Party believes Norway should enforce. Last year's election campaign, my party leader, Knut Arild Hareide, asked the government to take an initiative against other European governments to find a common solution for Dublin people to Italy. The background was that there are the common European solutions in this area that will make a major difference. We therefore believe that the government should take the initiative to conclude a new agreement to distribute asylum seekers who have arrived in Italy and Greece. Until the situation in Greece improves, we should not send Dublin people back.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2152	I have noticed that the majority do not support the proposal to reintroduce a general stop in the Dublin return to Greece. I'm glad. After more than six years of Dublin return to Greece, it is positive that developments are now moving in the right direction, and that last year the UDI considered the situation to be such that it was again possible to assess the return of asylum seekers. It would be unfortunate if, on a general basis, Dublin returns were stopped again, without this being based on professional assessments or up-to-date land skills. Although the situation of asylum seekers in Greece has evolved for the better, the Department’s instructions show that the UDI must remain constantly informed about developments. UDI also makes thorough individual assessments of whether return in the specific case would be contrary to international obligations or to other legislation. Practice shows that no transfer of particularly vulnerable persons or lone minor asylum seekers to Greece has been requested. Updated figures show that Norway sent 44 requests to Greece during 2017, three of which have been accepted. Nothing has been migrated currently. By comparison, 150 requests were sent in 2017 from Greece to Norway, of which 94 were accepted and transferred here. The starting point for free movement within the Schengen area implies the need for a regulated division of responsibilities between the European States in this field, based on simple, predictable and effective legal rules. The large influx of asylum seekers experienced by Europe in 2015 highlighted the need for control and for a regulatory framework that does not encourage migrants to travel to irregular, often dangerous, countries on their own initiative. The government welcomes further participation in a future European system where the definition of responsibilities for asylum seekers is based on more objective criteria than today. However, in order for such cooperation to operate over time, it is central that all countries contribute to fulfilling their part of the commitments laid down. I am therefore pleased that the proposal to stop returns to Greece on a general basis is not intended to obtain a majority, but that all cases are subject to thorough assessments by UDI and UNE. Any joint contribution to Greece should be made through other measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2163	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2168	I'll try to make this very short. The Council of State was concerned that current assessments should be carried out, etc., and the Committee also writes that the UDI should remain constantly informed of developments in Greece and make individual assessments of whether return in the specific case would be contrary to international obligations, etc. Can the Councils give a status update of the current situation? Is it now that the UDI is proposing to step up the requests for return?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2173	As I said, this happens based on an individual assessment of the individual's vulnerability and situation. Requests have been made for asylum seekers to be returned to Greece, even if no one has yet been returned. And even if we ask, Greece should accept. But we are in the process of making requests, and that means that we have an intention to return where it is right, in the same way that Greece addresses requests to Norway when they think it is right, and we assess whether it is right to accept them.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2178	There is a renegotiation, an evaluation, of the Dublin Agreement. Can the State Council say a little about the status of that assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2183	I can confirm that there is a discussion on the revision of the Dublin Code. I have no status update with me now, but I can say that the government supports principle help, a reform that ensures a distribution of asylum seekers based on more objective criteria than we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2188	I notice that the Council of State believes that conditions have evolved for the better in Greece. Then I expect that he might mean bureaucracy and not the conditions on the ground for asylum seekers. It would have been nice to know who is the source of that information. All the messages from the relief organisations that are there show that there is almost the limit of humanitarian disaster in many of the refugee camps. My second question is about a new regulatory framework in Europe. I hear the government say they support it, but do they want to cross some sticks to get it to? It is necessary that some countries now go ahead to put in place the division of responsibilities that is needed to ensure that refugees do not end up entirely in limbo and in war zones, and that some countries end up having to take full responsibility because they are border countries for a conflict.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2195	The government believes it is important that we pursue our policies in consultation with what is EU practice. It is totally impossible and unsustainable that Norway should derogate from what is general European practice. Norway will then stand out. The sources of these assessments are based on the European Commission’s report on the situation. It is their evaluation that is at stake, and it is upon their recommendations that countries can now begin to return.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2200	Does the Council consider that the humanitarian situation of refugees in Greece is not relevant to what Norway is doing and does not do in terms of the return of Dublin asylum seekers to Norway? Now very few come to Norway, and it would have been a little handshake both to individuals and to a country that has enormous challenges and problems compared to Norway. Does the Council not see the need for some countries to go ahead in some areas, to show way and to go ahead with a good example for other countries, and not to go ahead in making it as difficult for both refugees and those countries that, after all, have a huge responsibility because they are now frontier countries for conflicts?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2205	Norway contributes to Greece. Through the EEA funds, we have contributed several hundred million dollars in recent years. It is the European Union that coordinates it, and we are contributors. It is not the case at all that Norway does not help Greece in the situation they are in. As far as the acquis is concerned, it is important to have a single European legislation, so that no system can be put into effect and that Norway becomes particularly different from the other Schengen countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2212	As the Dublin Agreement is now, Greece and Italy are being exploited, because the agreement is so fiercely unbalanced since it is a country bordering on countries where there is conflict. They will always be the first country to accept refugees. This unbalanced agreement was in the process of fully reflecting the refugee crisis, as these countries, of course, allowed the refugees to move on – they knew that they would otherwise be left with full responsibility alone because they behaved as Norway is doing now. It is therefore necessary that countries not change the agreement themselves but take the initiative. That is what I want from the government – that they show initiative to change this agreement, that they set a good example and show that they are not using the Dublin agreement to return to Greece, which is completely unnecessary today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2218	There are really two questions this is about. One is whether we should follow the Dublin Agreement and the recommendations that form the basis of the European Commission. The second is whether or not the Dublin Agreement as it stands today is good enough. I think it is very important for Norway to act in line with common European positions on this issue. The Dublin Agreement must be revised and Norway must, of course, be involved in discussing the revision with the positions and views that can contribute to a better distribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2223	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2239	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party, Left, Christian People's Party, Environmental Party The Green Party and Red Party 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be a replacement of lines of up to seven lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2252	Norway has once again been given its own Minister of Development. I think that's very good. It was a key question in this Chamber on many occasions and a key issue in many policy debates in the past period that Norway should have its own Minister of Development, because this is a lot of money, and it plays a role in how we manage this money. In the previous government statement, the government promised to give its own development policy statement to the Stortinget. It wasn't held, but it's coming now. That is why I am pleased to have this opportunity to welcome the Minister of Development to the Storting with his own statement, because this has been longed for by the majority of the population. The size has broken the principle that the development budget should be at least 1 pst by means of a separate decision. of gross national income. This decision, of course, we expect the government to comply. Decision on 1 pst. Hopefully, we will help to avoid the political debate on development policy being constantly dominated by new rounds of budgetary levels, and instead can focus on what is most important, namely the content, equipment, quality and performance of development policy. We need an honest discussion about priorities, about what works and doesn't work, and this debate area is an important venue for it. The Council of State opened up its presentation with something that is obvious, namely that traditional aid transfers have become less important. There is no news because the relative importance of aid to developing countries has been decreasing for years. Migrants send home money, and investment and trade are now a much larger part of the flow of money to developing countries. Here, too, there is a recognition that Norwegian development policy is far wider than the U.D. and Norad. Norwegian policies and priorities in a number of sectors and areas have implications for developing countries. For example, small adjustments in the management of State pension funds abroad are likely to have far greater consequences for the world's further development than very much of Norwegian official development and foreign policy. I have noticed that the Council of State has announced the creation of a consensus forum with participants from civil society, academia, trade unions, business and several departments. That's okay. But the most important thing is that political priorities are implemented and policy decisions based on coherence are taken. Then this forum may be a useful tool, but it is ultimately the Council of State that is responsible for the coherence of Norwegian policy. Another important news from the Council of State is the notified aid reform, a reorganization of the distribution of responsibilities between the U.D., Norad and Norwegian embassies. This is, of course, the responsibility of the government — to make decisions on the organisation of its administration, but in the case of major reforms, Stortinget is usually consulted informally, and this has been a tradition. That is why I think it is important to point out some areas of aid reform. It is that aid competence should be strengthened throughout development management – in Norad, in the U.D. and in the foreign stations, without an artificial distinction between trade and management. We also need to take the consequences of continuous rotation of personnel, and that this could lead to a deterioration in the structure of the necessary skills. This policy statement, in my view, was marked by the fact that it was an official product. It's not necessarily a shell word, because it can be said very nicely about Norwegian office. I venture anyway on this claim. There was a very broad explanation, much was mentioned, nothing was forgotten, but I lack a clear political priority of the steps taken. If everything is given priority, there is a real risk of not giving priority to anything. In order to give priority to Norwegian development policy, we must, first of all, start from the realities and needs of the ground in each country. Assistance has the greatest effect when it is directed towards countries that show real will to help themselves, and where social and political developments are heading in the right direction – is it the will to distribute, is it the will for democracy? Secondly, we must also refer – we must – to what other donors and development actors do and do not do, so that what we do is consistent with others and does not duplicate what others do. And thirdly, we need to look at where Norway has competence and comparative advantage in development policy, where we are good, where we are best, and where we can make a difference. We must therefore bet on areas where we have Norwegian competence, experience and technology. Let me draw up four of these areas – firstly, the development tax. We need to focus on building up functioning and fair tax systems in developing countries, so that the growth that comes is well distributed. Norway has a high level of competence here. Second, we're an energy nation. We are good at renewable energy, green electricity and e.g. the development of hydropower plants. Here we have a comparative advantage. Thirdly, fisheries for development. Along the coast of Africa, both on the southern Atlantic and on the Indian seas, there is a looting. European and Chinese factory trawlers fish so intensively that several species of fish are at risk of disappearing and threaten the food safety of this continent. In fisheries and maritime management, we have a high level of competence. Here we have something to learn from. And fourth, female health, contraception, abortion. Here at home it is 40 years since the law of self-determined abortion was passed in this room, with the votes of SV and the Workers' Party. Not long ago, I was in a mission hospital in the countryside in Tanzania. It was built in due course on funds collected in Norway and driven by Norwegian milionaires. Today the posters at the hospital showed that they had come in for a new time. There was a lot of information about condoms and pills, and the idea went back to those who had worked and collected money for exactly this mission hospital. Norway has a great job to do here. During Obama, Norway was a very important ally for the United States in this area, but last year Trump, on his very first working day, signed an important document in the Oval Office – surrounded by seven men. It would draw all U.S. money support from organisations operating prevention and abortion guidance. Former Republicans have also cut off support for abortion, but this cut is even more dramatic, for now it is cut in support of health programmes for birth care, health centres and vaccines if the organisation also operates with abortion guidance. This is a $9 billion cut. dollar. It's huge. Millions of women are at risk of losing access to prevention and health. When this was known, the Dutch Minister for Development was quick on the road and called for a large international conference, and she thanked those who had supported her. It was Belgium, Denmark and Sweden, and then she thanked the support for those who were first out there: Canada, Cape Verde, Estonia, Finland and Luxembourg. Norway was therefore not among the first, second or third countries to notify its support to the Dutch Minister for Development. We should be there. It blames a conservative wave all over the world with the goal of restricting women's right to determine their own bodies. When the Americans reduce their efforts, we have to escalate. We can't just replace the cuts to Trump, but we can do more. The appropriations allocated to the right-hand party government have barely increased since Stoltenberg II. In our priority, we want to use a lot more in this area. In the fight for women's rights, Norway must be at the forefront.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2284	The previous article made me wonder if I had gone wrong, not in the sense that I did not know that I was going to the storeroom, but what debate I had been reported on, because here was obviously the main message more the domestic political settlement between an opposition and the government, where one then wanted to return to the former prime minister of his own party. It's both understandable and human, but I don't think the article helps us to have a meaningful debate on what way our help should take, how it should be organised and with what priorities. There may be more of interest in those who are to be helped, and the organisations we are to help through, that we stick to the theme, which is actually the Minister of Development's presentation. I would like to start by thanking you for a very interesting statement, not least because it is in the sober order, which is otherwise very much in tune with the nature of the Council of State, and also has a description that differs in some respects positively from some earlier presentations of aid policy, which – a little shortened and of course not with the shades that should have been included – assumes that very much of our aid discussion is that everything, not to say the most in the world, goes wrong, while Norwegian assistance is almost ideally organised and at least optimally distributed. It has the natural consequence, and that is when everything is ideally organized and optimally distributed, that the discussion really consists in how much money we can raise for the projects. It is therefore good to hear that this investigation differs from its predecessors in that it also promotes positive developments – that the proportion of the poor in the world is falling, extreme poverty is halved in 20 years, and world public health in general has improved. By taking an interest in what is going well, not least by developing analytical concepts to grasp the progress that is due to foreign aid, and what is due to an interaction with the country's own institution building, the establishment of legal societies, or with an open world economy and trade relationship, is also important for what we should choose from instruments in the future. There is also knowledge to get into what is not so good, by recognizing setbacks, whether it is due to a lack of understanding of the communities you want to help, or to weak Norwegian organisation. Just this approach will facilitate the resolution of the remaining humanitarian crises, which are formidable – civil wars, ethnic contradictions, corruption and climate problems – which have a direct impact on all countries, whether rich or poor. Changes in used global and economic conditions create uncertainty and precursors to more protectionism, isolationism and nationalism. All this reminds us that in our own countries too, some choices and political temptations can slow down economic development, promote uncertainty and rock stability. That part of the political debate must be taken home. At the same time, we must also make it clear that there are increasing demands on the responsibility of the recipient countries for their own development, both politically and economically. Also, uncontrolled population growth cannot be entirely a purely national and internal issue, just as decisions in rich countries to protect themselves against competitive goods from those we need to help, and that makes us all poorer if we don't let them in. Thus, the impact of protectionism is not a purely national matter and an advantage, but must also be assessed in the light of the disadvantage it imposes on international relations. I would like to highlight the value of our own thinking and of the development policy of being more aware that it is based more on equal partnership than on the roles of giving and receiving. Partners are more equal in both expectations and obligations. It is therefore important to note that developing countries need to mobilise their national resources to achieve development, whether in the field of education, health, climate or employment. In this picture, assistance becomes one of several instruments to promote long-term capacity building and national resource mobilisation. I do not think it has been announced that I would provide 10 minutes of the allocated speaking time. So I'm set up with just 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2299	We have not been informed of this, but it can well be done. I suggest that the representative continue with a new 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2304	Thank you for that. In order for a country to be able to invest in, for example: education, health or safety, must be subject to tax revenue. Then it must also be in order in its own house, for example. an uncorrupted tax administration. In recent years, we have chosen to concentrate development work on five priorities: education, health, climate — including environment and renewable energy — profitable jobs and humanitarian aid. The first four can be said to be strategic, since they support the general construction of society in terms of and for the sake of self-driving. The fifth, humanitarian aid, or what was called emergency aid in the past, is a more urgent effort, more focused on individuals, individual events, and is thus provided more independently of what else is meant by the country's regimes and rulers. An example of this is currently the effort being made in Syria. The increasing emphasis on the consequences of climate and environmental problems in development policy is also a reminder that some of the greatest threats to sustainable development are not isolated to traditionally poor or traditionally rich countries, but are a common threat to all of us, to humanity. In this area, partnership strengthening is particularly important, and it is important when the Paris Agreement also provides developing countries with international commitments for the first time. It is therefore a good signal when the Council of State states so clearly that aid financing should be in line with the country's own adaptation and low-emission development plans. We see this interdependence and the artificial distinction between rich and poor countries when it comes to sea. We have a more common world sea that creeps back and forth between completely different countries and types of society. I can say, to the orientation of the President and the Storting, that in the Norwegian Presidency of the Nordic Council, we have just highlighted the Nordic waters, the Nordic seas and our local problems of siphoning. Fortunately, it is under control as we have a good overview and control of the pollution that comes from land, and it is, after all, 80-90 pst, but as it is in the nature of the matter, it will be possible to move pollution from almost every place on the globe, and therefore the seas are also the common owners of humans. Once again, we see how it is natural and right to mention an effort in the climate area related to the sea, as a partnership project between traditionally rich and traditionally poor countries. What I want to end with in this context concerns the last part, the more incident-driven part of our assistance, namely the humanitarian effort. I have noted with interest that the Minister for Development, together with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will present a new humanitarian strategy later this year. Here, too, there is a lot to do, not least because we also get a very interesting discussion about how we organise and distribute aid in-house in Norway. Then it must also be that if we are to maintain a great political upswing, what is called legitimacy, we must also know that those who fund – and it is not the politicians, it is the taxpayers – that we are using as much of the funds as possible so that they function on the basis of the good purposes that often surround and surround the discussion on development policy. We have a commitment, not least to those we are going to help, to get as much progress as possible back for the money that is being put in, which is 1 pst. national income of the country. It's not just spending a lot of money. It is also a moral obligation to make best use of them, in the interests of both Norwegian taxpayers and the countries and groups to benefit from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2319	The Council of State started its presentation last week by putting its finger on a significant problem: that Western countries have for 50 years transferred huge amounts to developing countries. The amount has been estimated at 1000 billion. dollars, or one million million dollars, together. But the poor are still poor. Assistance has not provided the effect that was hoped for, and in many cases has done more harm than good. A fundamental reason for this is that the complexity of development issues has been underestimated and more concerned with giving than with the results of thegrowth. Terje Tvedt uses the term ‘National Goodness Regime’. He sums it up this way: ‘The assistance was good and the helper was good. Critical analyses of its practices therefore had to be condemned, ultimately, because it could lead to the loss of life.’ The time when aid could not be critically analysed is hopefully at the end, and that is good. There is no lack of reports that give a bleak description of Norwegian aid results from the 1960s to the present day. One of the last is from March this year, where the British consulting company Itad, in cooperation with the Norwegian Chr. The Michelsen Institute assessed the management of the objectives and results of the assistance. The conclusion was discouraging. The main finding was that the aid management is very poor. Among other things, experience from previous projects is not used to a large extent in the work on new projects. The Jeløya Platform states that the government will reform the organisation of Norwegian aid policy to ensure knowledge-based and effective assistance. Much investigation work has been done, and will continue to be done, to ensure the best possible management of the Norwegian tax money going to development projects. Yesterday, the Council of State pointed to the direction of the aid reform, such as: means that Norad is to be cultivated as a management body. It is important that the large sums that go to aid – 34 billion. kr in 2017 – well managed. It is also important to have a solid knowledge environment that ensures that lessons are learned from the mistakes that have been made in the past. I'm sure the Council of State will find a good solution. An administrative reform is not the only step taken by this government. I believe that we are turning Norwegian development policy in a better direction. The Council of State drew on several important principles for a modernised development policy. The most important are, in my view, the following: The importance of local ownership for its own challenges. Norway cannot take responsibility for developments in other countries but can contribute by being a partner. Public investment and services must be primarily financed by national resources. Development is not primarily about money. The requirement that the assistance should meet the 1 pst target is therefore a blank track in the development debate. The content and priorities of development policy are important. We're going to work to make the world's developing countries independent of aid. A good example here is trade. Trade has led millions of people out of poverty. It is therefore positive that the Council of State underlines the importance of trade-oriented development cooperation. The importance of supporting national resource mobilisation. Many developing countries are very rich in natural resources. It is therefore important to put in place systems that can manage natural resources in a good way. Most developing countries have a young and rapidly growing population. Therefore, it is important to develop a good education provision, so that those who are children and young people today can take an active part in the development of the country when they grow up. Tax systems are often very deficient and tax rates too low. The fact that countries have tax revenues is fundamental to the development of democracy and the development of welfare services. It is also a key to becoming independent of assistance. Norwegian support for the development of national tax systems is therefore important. Concentration of the aid: we cannot operate with everything. This leads to less control of the money and poorer results. The government has already made a significant effort to reduce the number of aid agreements, the number of focus areas and the number of countries where aid projects are located. This work must continue. Assistance as we know it, in my opinion, is about to be given, mainly because of changes in the poor parts of the world. Many African countries today experience high economic growth, many have developed solid institutions, build up local industry and increase production. Developing countries themselves prefer investment and economic partnership to replace aid. We also see that African countries want to take greater responsibility for the development of the region. In 2017, ECOWAS, the economic community of the West African countries, entered the Gambia with armed forces to pressure the President to go down after he refused to accept the defeat of the democratic elections. In April of this year 44 African countries signed a regional free trade agreement on the initiative of the African Union. It is the largest free trade agreement that has been concluded since the WTO. According to the UN estimates, the intra-African flow of goods could increase by 50 pst. within five years. Trade instead of aid – trade is the recipe for economic growth for the vast majority, not only the Western world but also for developing countries. The Council of State presentation highlighted the course for a more results-oriented and forward-looking development policy. Assistance is directed more towards self-help, which supports the ability of countries and individuals to work out of poverty and shape their own freedom.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2363	The green strand of the Centre's international commitment is to promote political stability, reconciliation and peace, development and a fairer distribution. In this article, I shall pay particular attention to the challenges of distribution policy in the world society. Governments draw an image of a world where most things are better, but the way to a world free from poverty is not without challenges. It's not too strong – to say it that way. The Council of State gives good examples of the importance of policy and the effectiveness of policy. That's right, and it gives hope for the future. Rule of the people, subsampling and fair distribution are the result of political struggle. A mountain of itself has not come about. In my eyes, the world is unfortunately not as harmonious as this arrangement can give the impression. What I miss from the government in this field, as in several other fields, is on the one hand a political analysis of what political actions and actions have been successful for the past 20-30 years, and which have fed people, better health services and education – which is at the bottom of all developments – and, on the other hand, an analysis of political actions and actions that have led to the opposite: persistent poverty, hunger, distress, trauma to refugees, conflict and unrest. I cannot, with my best will, see that the paradisaic conditions have come after a unilateral and uncritical tribute to globalisation, which some stand for. It is now time for power, justice, good and wealth to be very different between countries, within countries. A few large multinational companies are currently managing unimaginable wealth. It is far beyond what one needs for wealth. At the same time, it is a sad fact that a large number of children die of misnutrition while I keep this post while we have this debate. It's a sad wallpaper. There are major distribution policy challenges in the international community, and there is a struggle for important resources. It applies not only to oil and gas, but also to the ownership of land on which it can feed, access to drinking water and fish resources — to name a few. Who will own and manage these resources in the future will, of course, have a major impact on distribution policies and developments. Similarly, of course, the right and the right of national states to tax resource withdrawals from multinational corporations will be politically important. This is part of our common child learning in Norway. One important reason why we have our wealth, our well-being, is that as a nation, we have had access to important resources – soil, forests, water, minerals, trunk power, oil and gas. The revenues have benefited the community, and through this we have built a society with high trust between people and less differences between people than what we see in other places on the Earth. The very right party that would previously privatize oil wealth and sell water resources has, at least in the public vocabulary, now sidelined such views. So I do not have an analysis of the international community's policy challenges and answers to what the government thinks about the right of each country to manage natural resources for the benefit of its own citizens, and the need for each country to tax multinational companies in order to be able to distribute good and well-being. It is quite right, as the Council of State says, that the population growth will be strongest in some of the poorest countries in the world. The population of Africa will probably be double, to two billion people, by 2050. At the same time, we know that even a small increase in temperature will result in large consequences. food production on this continent. So, where the population growth can be the strongest, the conditions for producing food can get worse. This is a situation we can predict, which requires action now. Access to clean drinking water is already a major challenge today, and if we get a strong population growth and poorer conditions for food production, we will be able to face salt disasters and people's migrations that we haven't seen in a long, long time. The key to Africa's future is of course in Africa, but there will also be a great deal of joint effort from the international community to feed, grow up, learn and realize their dreams in the future. For many years, in contrast to the Progress Party, most of the parties here on the Stortinget have had an active policy to help people where they are. The Central Party believes that Norway, as a rich country, is responsible for contributing to development and helping fellow human beings in other countries. There's only one party that's been talking about state-required u-help, who's just had the main job of helping people where they're basically. It may not be surprising either that there are just representatives from this party who believe that the debate on the arrangement and design of development assistance and assistance is a new debate. For my part, I have been discussing it for over 40 years. The central party wants Norway to be a part of the international community, and we know what the basic needs of people are, and we know a lot about what works. When a child is born, there must be a minimum of health care for mother and child. The child who is born needs food and proper nutrition, and it needs education. This is fundamental to development and progress. In addition, the idea behind the World Health Organisation, FAO and UNICEF has been very good and correct. And then we can look at the devices of how we provide help and support, but the basic needs of human beings are the same now as they were ten, twenty, thirty years ago – they are not being modernised. The requirements and challenges we're going to solve are the same. It is then important and right that Norway follows up on areas such as health, food and education, and it has been a constant entry point for the priorities of the Centre Party. In addition, I would like to mention two points: women's rights must always be given special priority, and we want strong support for civil society as part of the development of democracy. Of course, as many have said from this speaker, there are challenges associated with building stable, well-functioning democracy in many places, and there is no simple hokus-pocus solution – it is a long-term work – but then we have to go in and give support to those who want the right things. Crisis aid and humanitarian aid are important, but it is and will be long-term assistance that provides a basis for development. Then you have to think ten, twenty, thirty years ahead. One doesn't achieve wonders on either one or three years, even if all the monsters are moving. One must be patient to get results. Finally, the Council of State has notified changes in Norwegian aid management. Norad is an important tool in aid work and has a high level of competence in long-term aid work. It's hard to know what the government council is doing to reinvent Norad as a target organ, which I read in an NTB message today. Discrimination between subjects and administration may not make sense. The stronger trade union environment seemed otherwise to be a key element in the reform work of this government. The centre party believes it is important to have a strong professional environment both in Norad and in the foreign stations in the countries where Norway is actively providing assistance. At this point, I'm in line with the leader of the committee and with what was said in her post, so I'm excited to right about the state council now can deepen this somewhat more than what he did in the statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2397	Thank you for having this debate, and thank you to the Minister for Development, who has given a presentation in the past. First of all, I am pleased that we have received a Minister for Development. It makes it clear that the government is looking at this field with great responsibility, and it makes the bet visible. Then I have to express a considerable disagreement with the representative of the Progress Party, who uses his intervention to speak down Norwegian aid. I have had the pleasure of leading several Norwegian aid organisations, and I know the field relatively well. I have lived abroad for several years and worked with development assistance and humanitarian aid. We've done a lot of stupid things, and I've led a lot of stupid things myself – I have to admit that, but the sum of the world's assistance has actually led to significant improvements for a lot of people. Not least, many diseases have been eradicated, and illiteracy has, for example, caused illiteracy. have been severely reduced. World development aid has also helped to create significant policy changes in many countries where there has been much repression. It's been important. We can mention countries such as South Africa and Bolivia and partly Palestinian territories. Development assistance is primarily aimed at combating poverty and safeguarding fundamental rights. In addition, we now have, of course, on the agenda that development aid should deal with humanitarian crises, it should reduce increasing inequality, and it should assist in the fight against climate change. But it's very important to be clear that when millions of people are poor and very many get suppressed their fundamental rights, it's because there's someone else who actually wants it to be like that. It is a system created by oppression or a lack of political system. This means that assistance must focus on changing the basic conditions that create this inequality and oppression. So it's not like this is just there; you have to do something about the underlying causes. That means changing the conditions of people living in the poorest areas of the world, you have to work politically to change them. There I might come up with my main criticism from the Minister for Development, which launches a pretty strong clock belief in facilitating the private sector as part of the development process. It is fine that we provide for many jobs, but jobs and industrial development in the south do not necessarily contribute to poverty reduction. In a number of countries, we have seen that growth in countries where Norway has increased trade benefits very few people. Many countries in the world have as much oil production and oil revenues as Norway. The poor majority of oil revenues do not look at anything because there is a lack of a distribution system. These people lack institutions where they can negotiate to get part of their value creation. That means that we need to have a device on our assistance that is somewhat more politically oriented and is about changing the basic conditions. That is why I had hoped that the Minister for Development had given greater emphasis to strengthening the role of civil society. Working through large international organisations that in turn cooperate with local partners is a way of building a kind of counterpower from below, making rights available to people, and, not least, creating a basis for people to negotiate the value creation of which they are a part, and not just being oppressed and under the discretion of others. Now I'm going to spend some time talking about the reorganisation that the minister has launched for Norad. Of course, it's not like the Storting should give detailed instructions on how the government organizes its administration. We're going to stick to that for good. But, of course, we should be able to comment on it if it leads to political changes that we think are unfortunate. Pursuing Norad as an economic body, so saying a paying agency, and essentially moving professional and political resources to the U.D. could lead to an unfortunate distinction between economic and professional. In addition, the foreign policy objectives set by the Minister for Development, which is part of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, are being developed into development. It's actually an important point that these two things are handled something separately.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2416	Last week, the Council of State made a good contribution describing the reality of Norwegian development policy. The installation, which covered 40 minutes and 38 pages, shows the clear challenge we are facing. We want so much. Norway and the Nordics have great ambitions in the field of development, and we care about large and small in a number of countries. I don't see this as a weakness, but as a strength. It's a strength because it shows that the Norwegian people not only put their own woes first, but also that there is a burning international commitment to helping people all over the world. It is a great gift for Norwegian development work and something we should celebrate. At the same time, there is a challenge to the impact of our work. We are reaching out to many countries, too many challenges and too many actors. There are a lot of people who want to claim. We do that because Norway has great ambitions. At the same time, we must remember that even in the peace nation of Norway, we will not be able to solve all the world's problems through our development aid, even if we want to. The answer to this must be two-fold: Create a coherent policy and concentrate our efforts. The term ‘coherence’ has obscured a simple and important realization, and it is: All sectors of Norwegian society have to move in the same direction if we are to get more outnumbered for our development policy objectives. With assistance alone, we will not be able to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves. Here, industrial policy, trade policy, financial policy and foreign policy must play a role in our aid policy, otherwise we do not have the opportunity to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves. To achieve this, we need to update our structures. We cannot continue with the unexplained responsibilities that exist today between Norad and the U.D. in some areas. It has also rightly been pointed out by the Council of State. Norad can have a greater role as a control and evaluation body, while other tasks should be entrusted to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The role of Norad has to be more able to be cultivated as an independent control body, which ensures that we get more for what we spend our money on. In addition, we need to reform information support and ensure that discussion on development policy is not reserved for the few. The discussion must be based on the current state of the art and, in addition, on e.g.: into the Evening Post. As I said, the Council of State made a good contribution, including: Much attention was paid to the efforts of UN organisations. He's right. But we must not forget the civil society actors we work with on a daily basis. Development funds are too important to be channelled only through large UN contributions. We need to work with local civil society in our partner countries. It gives the local more power to design their own future, to co-determination and to the goal, while itself laying the foundation for a civil society that each freedom-loving country actually needs. I am the first to praise the UN's efforts in several countries, but this cannot be at the expense of support directly to local actors. The blue-blue government has already started an effort to concentrate assistance on fewer countries and through fewer actors. This is moving us in the right direction, but we're far from in the right direction. The concentration of assistance may not only occur by merging several contracts with one supplier. The initiative to focus on a limited list of partner countries is a good one. It will help us concentrate our development policy, but which countries are on that list requires an accurate review. In that review, it is the democratic potential that should have top focus. We know that democratic institutions, a strong multi-party system, an independent judiciary and an independent press are the cornerstones of development itself. Therefore, we should focus on those countries that show signs, abilities and the desire to develop such institutions. Aid which contributes to the strengthening of authoritarian regimes without reform should not be continued. The concentration of assistance is not just about countries and partners. It's about what challenges we're going to prioritise. As I was in it, it is those with the greatest democratic potential that we should focus on, and that is why we need to give priority to promoting civil and political rights, education and equality. I choose these areas because these are the ones that lay the foundation for a free society, where everyone has the opportunity to create their own future. This is where the Council of State has a good guide. The Jelaua platform deliberately emphasises that all of these should be our priority areas. It comes from a blue-green understanding that societies are built from below and up and not from above and down, and that economic rights without political rights will in the long run be worthless. I refer you to the post, to which I join.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2440	First, I would like to thank the Minister for a thorough and good account. It was a useful interim report of the work being done, and it also gave some signals about the government's priorities in the future. I am pleased that the Council of State brought forward increased tax access and the fight against corruption and illegal capital flows in its presentation. It is absolutely central to getting more countries to do without assistance. Norway, for its part, needs to follow up our commitments to double support for fiscal aid. One aid crown may trigger $10 of tax revenue. This is good and effective assistance. Nevertheless, only 0.13 pst went. of Norwegian assistance in 2015 for this purpose. In addition, this assistance has been significantly reduced in the last two years. It's a development that needs to be reversed. The Christian People's Party is looking forward to the announced announcement of partner countries. It is good that the government here will preface what it means to be a partner country, and that you will look at the list of partner countries again. The Council of State stated in its statement that under the 2030 agenda, ‘mutual cooperation and real partnership’ is at stake. Here, the relationship of government is important. It should also be reflected in partner country cooperation and in the country of choice as a partner country. The Assad regime in Syria should not, as the government strangely suggested. In this context, the government should also follow up the decision on strengthened State capacity in the countries. This is just how countries can make themselves independent of assistance. The Christian People's Party (Christian People's Party) budget agreement with the government for the current year provided for a plan for the further escalation of vocational education and training provision in developing countries. It shall be presented in the context of a revised year. We look forward to that presentation. The Christian People's Party has long worked for a reform of aid management that can provide us with better and more effective assistance. This was one of the main handles when the Christian People's Party delivered an alternative development message last year. If we are to succeed in eradicating poverty and reaching the 2030 agenda, we need a good reform of aid management. Between the presentation of the Council of State and today’s debate, the Council of State has already undertaken to launch a comprehensive reform of aid management. The organisation of the administration is the responsibility of the government. At the same time, we think it is unfortunate to take large administrative measures that do not have broad support in the Storting. Therefore, it is disappointing that the government has not submitted a proper consultation round with Stortingen in this case. That's what the case deserved. That is why we need to take advantage of this opportunity, because the reform should meet three important objectives. Firstly, aid competence should be strengthened throughout development management, the Directorate and the Department, without artificial distinctions between trade and management. The grips the government makes on moving professional skills from NORAD to the ministry and converting NORAD to almost a paying agency are far from making a good contribution. On the contrary, it will go from bad to worse. It's not a reindeer cultivation, it's a line break of NORAD. NORAD is tapped for assistance professional competence. The efforts of the Council of State to separate technical management from professional administration are artificial and will in practice be almost impossible to achieve. Trade and administration are interrelated. It is also difficult to imagine how the separation of the two can provide more effective assistance. At the same time, transferring competence to the U.D., without simultaneously reforming the U.D., will lead to further confusion of the aid competence, when these professionals enter into the usual rotational arrangements of the U.D. system. Second, therefore, the reform should ensure that this aid competence is integrated within a long-term and predictable institutional framework, without a rotation that impairs professional competence. Thirdly, aid and development skills at foreign stations should be strengthened. Today, the opposite happens. It's very unfortunate. This is no small matter. This is very important. We ask that the Stortinget be kept informed about the implementation of the reform. In the end, a theme that the Minister of Development was not within: freedom of faith, which is the very litmus test of human rights. Today, the British Religious Freedom Group met with a parliamentarian from Iraq, a Jesuit, who had experienced the worst army. She talked about the disappearance of ISIL's army, but ISIL's ideology is on the rise. It is important that Norway is also a force for freedom of religion.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2470	When I saw the representative Rupstad in the pulpit, I was reminded that I should correct a manifest misunderstanding from the presentation, where it was said by me that God created the earth in seven days. The right thing is, of course, that he created it in six days and rested on the seventh day. So this right over here. Let me first thank you for all the good contributions to this debate on important issues of how to achieve sustainability goals in common with the countries of the south. I would also like to thank the Workers' Party, which wanted me to be particularly welcome – of course I appreciate that very much. It was also said by the representative Huitfeldt that we lack priorities in development policy, and that the statement expressed it. I strongly disagree with that. On the contrary, even before my time, we have taken many important steps to prioritise much more stringently than was the case during the previous government. There are fewer agreements, fewer themes, fewer countries — a significant concentration, a recognition that Norway cannot, even though we are large in this field, do everything for everyone. If we want to get the most out of the money we have available, we have to look at where Norway really can make a difference. There is also a background for a partner country message to the Stortinget, where we are going to explain exactly what it means to be a partner country, and the broad range of development policy instruments that we can use to be real partners, which the representative Ropstad was also in. I also agree that it is good that we should not go into a debate about how much money we should spend. It's now fixed. There will also be scope for debate on the content of development policy, which is what really matters. But the precondition for such a debate is that the results of the assistance are open and that they are available. Today they're really none of the parts. That is why I announced in my statement that I would like to start working on a performance portal, where it is actually possible to follow developments in the various projects where Norway is involved, and see the results of the work we are doing in all areas. That work is under way. When Huitfeldt's representative picks up four priorities, I'm glad they're covered by the priorities we have. It is also highlighted by the representative Huitfeldt that we were not present at a conference in the Netherlands, and therefore we do not give priority to SRHR. It's a short cut. Norway, as Huitfeldt's representative knows, spends $1.5 billion on this field in 2018, and we're going to increase by over $500 million. in the following years, precisely because this is an important field for Norway, regardless of whether Norway was present at the individual conference in the Netherlands. But we are part of the She Decides initiative – and not just that, Minister for Children and Gender Equality Linda C. Hofstad Helleland is She Decides Champion. I think that's important – that it's not me, but that it's her – because this is a work that not only goes under my portfolio, but that's important to the whole government. It is good that the Council of State, Hofstad Helleland, participates in it. So the representative from the Central Party asked the question, what has been successful in the last 20 years? Yes, within the 40 minutes available, I could also spend more time on it. But if we look at what's really lifted people out of poverty in the last 20 years, there's an increase in trade and China's and India's entry into the world economy. And that, in turn, leads me to the importance of being able to create jobs. It is not to be reduced for the distribution profile, which the representative of SV was in. It's possible to have two thoughts in your head at once. But when we know, as I said in my statement, that Statoil's tax revenue to Angola is more than Norway's total aid to Africa, it also says something about the importance of being able to create profitable jobs in developing countries in order to build a sustainable society with good health and well-being services for all. This is important for any society. It is important for developed countries, and it is important for developing countries. We need a profitable private sector to deliver on the key objectives. I also got the impression from the Centre's posts that we're going to stop building renewable energy in developing countries because we're going to have ownership of our own resources. I think it is good, I, that we are contributing to the development of renewable energy in developing countries, because it is also incredibly important for the long-term growth and development of developing countries and a prerequisite for our success. It's very much I could also imagine saying about reform. Unfortunately, my time is running out now, but I have a feeling that I will get the chance later in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2489	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2494	I want to address the relationship between business life and human rights. I think maybe your somewhat dominant focus on business life can stand in the way of the goal of also doing something about human rights. The director of the Norwegian Council of State, Kjell Roland, has claimed that the focus of Norwegian organisations on human rights is detrimental to the reputation of Norwegian companies outside. In other words, Roland, as I understand him, believes that the focus on human rights for the Norwegian organisations is a anti-competitive factor for Norwegian businesses to establish themselves out there. Do you agree with Roland on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2499	The President will remind the representative, Eide, that the Council of State should not be addressed in du form, but that the speech should be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2504	I don't know if I agree with the rendering of Roland's position on this. I think it's a little bit more nuanced than that. But let me say that we have high expectations for Norwegian business when they're out, and we have high expectations for Norfund's investment in business out there. That's the way it should be. Human rights are a cross-cutting concern in Norwegian development policy. That means it's going to permeate everything we do. I was at the latest this morning early and spoke to the Human Rights Committee of the Association of Advocates about the importance that business also focuses on human rights and follows up the important work done both in the United Nations, where Norway has taken a leading role in this area, and in the OECD, where there is a Norwegian contact point just to promote human rights in the investments being made. Action here on the business side is very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2509	Thanks for the answer. It is possible that I have misquoted Roland, but the intention is as I say, and he has also received massive criticism from a number of Norwegian leaders in large organisations for this attitude. Now this director is going to end. There will be a new Director, and my question to the Minister for Development is: How is the new Director of Norfund set to invest in human rights in business investment out there?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2514	It will be the same expectations of Norfund in the future as it is today, that all investments should take into account the importance of human rights, regardless of who is the director. It is also the Board of Directors of Norfund which appoints the Director, not the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2519	Norway has a major advantage in the field of renewable energy. In the case of development assistance for climate purposes, it has been reduced quite sharply, by 2 billion. kr, or a third. This is the area for which I know that the Council of State has a great commitment. What plans does he have to increase development assistance for climate purposes in the next few years?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2524	I would say that renewable energy is part of the important climate action. Renewable energy has increased, and we have made a significant contribution to the UN Green Fund – 400 million. kr of the year, SEK 1.6 billion. kr over the last four years. This is important. We have signaled that we are going to increase the investment in renewable energy in the future, and we are reviewing whether the conditions are in place so that we can also increase the contribution to the green fund. We'll get back to that. This is important. Renewable energy is absolutely crucial in the climate work, and there is a huge effort being made, not least through Norfund, which I was just about to discuss. 50 pst. by Norfund's portfolio is invested in renewable energy and that portfolio currently accounts for 23 billion. kr. So there are significant resources that are in the process of promoting renewable energy, as well as the other mechanisms we have in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2529	I hear the Council of State says there has been an increase. Whether or not the representative of Tetzschner likes it, the comparison with 2013 is relatively relevant to the results of that government. After all, it's been cut by a third. It's not a little cut -- it's a solid cut, and it represents 2 billion. kr. I understand that the Council of State will impose quality requirements. It's important. But it has taken this government quite many years to work to improve the results in terms of assistance for climate purposes. When can we get this on the table? It's a bit fluent – when the Americans cut – because this is an area where we have a advantage, and for the last five years it's been a pretty big cut from the Norwegian side.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2537	As I said, we are building up our investment in this area, and I think that is important and correct. As the representative knows, we have also invested significantly in a few other areas that are also important, namely health and education. We've doubled the investment in education. I think it is in line with the representative's wish that we concentrate our efforts on some priorities. Those priorities are five, and renewable energy and climate and environment are one of them. Increases in the coming years will come within the five priority areas of Norwegian development policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2542	Norway is a good example of the fact that national right of access to natural resources does not prevent either foreign investment, trade or cooperation. The key here is what the value of these resources should benefit most, the country and the inhabitants who live where the resources are, or investors who want to make a living on these resources. I have not said in my post that Norway should not invest in other countries, and with a little willingness I believe the Council of State understands the problem, but he may not be interested in answering so much of it. But it goes to the core of what was said in the distribution with reference to Tony Blair, how we are going to use the community's power to combine globalisation with justice. Can the Council of State elaborate on this question in the light of what I have just said?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2547	I agree with Tony Blair. That is why I referred to him on that point. There is certainly much else I do not agree with him, but at this point I agree, and this is something we have succeeded in Norway. I am pleased to hear that the representative believes that we should invest in renewable energy in developing countries, and I choose to interpret him there that it is also not forbidden for us to make money on it even if investors were not to make money on this, as he put it in his question. The point is that the capital doesn't exist in the countries we go into. Some people have to take a high risk of entering and building power plants. Norway does. In Nepal, for example, State power builds an excellent power plant. After 20 years, 50 pst falls. of ownership back to the Nepalese State and after 40 years the entire power plant falls back to the Nepalese State. It's a model where Statkraft gets paid for the risk they take, while the long-term gain undoubtedly both en route and subsequently falls to the Nepalese authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2554	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer, because then the Council of State recognizes that there are different balances here, and that the country where the resources are must be able to reasonably maintain its long-term interests and make corresponding demands on foreign investors as we have done in Norwegian society. So we can discuss further the distribution of this and what is reasonable and fair in the light of that. My next question is about something that the Council of State did not go into, and that has been commented on by several in this Chamber, about an aid reform in Norad, and that, according to an NTB message, is that one should re-grow Norad as a management body with centralized responsibility for all technical back-up management. Does the Council have any comment on what has been said by several parties in the opposition to this reorganisation in this debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2561	The requirements for good grant management will only increase as the aid budgets increase in the coming years, and I believe that it is important that we professionalise the part of the grant management that goes on paying out and controlling the huge sums that pass through Norwegian administration. I therefore think it makes sense for us to cultivate it in Norad, while obviously there is also a need for what is by its very nature political tasks to be placed under the political secretariat, namely the ministry. There is a need to strengthen the technical competence of the Department of Assistance, and there is also a background for this reform. I think the result of this is that we will get better use of the large amount of money we have available, with lower risk and better control, and that is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2566	Let me first take the opportunity from this pulpit to congratulate Astrup as a development minister, and also from this pulpit say that I have great faith in him, and that he is going to do a good job. And he's already forgiven for the reference to God's creating the world in seven days, as far as I remember, it was a quote from Kofi Annan it was referred to, so it wasn't his own word. Even though God was able to do six days, I think the Minister of Development is getting a little ambitious when he's spent three months working out his big reform. As I said in my post, I'm very happy that one looks at it, because that's absolutely necessary. But I'm afraid that someone doesn't achieve their goals, the skills are confusing in both Norad and the U.D., and then we're worse off than what we were. So my question is: how does the Minister of Development want to include the Stortinget? I am fully aware that it is the government's responsibility and domain, but how does he want to involve the Storting in such an important and great reform, in which many of us are very engaged?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2573	We're aware that this gives rise to a lot of commitment, and that's why we've talked to, among other things. Christian People's Party on this before we presented our course for the reform. It is important to stress that this is a course. This means that many of the questions raised by the representative are ahead of us and will be answered, and I am not prepared to implement a reform that will help to weather Norwegian aid competence. On the contrary, I think we need a strong aid competence. But the important thing here is that we focus on what problems we're going to solve, and then we figure out how we best solve them, that we look at the totality of our system with both the Norad, the U.D. and the outdoor stations as one, and then distribute the resources where we think it's the most useful and the best results. That has to be the starting point. I am absolutely sure that the representative Ropstad will receive excellent answers to the concerns he is raising today, as the process progresses.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2578	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2583	I too would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the government on setting up an important ministerial post and to warmly welcome the Minister. We need this discussion. The development statement is full of good words, which very many parties on the Storting may agree, but the question is what they contain. The difference in Norwegian development policy may sometimes be difficult to grasp, but it is in the focus of action, priority, progress, and achievement of the objectives. The difference is also in what ‘cut’ and ‘increase’ means, and what the difference between the two words is. What is an increase in an item that has already been cut? Assistance, development and security policies belong together. When people lack hope, are deprived of rights and prevented from enjoying resources they should actually have access to, they are being saved. They get frustrated, and that frustration leads to instability. That is why it is particularly dangerous when, after the appointment of Jerusalem as the capital of Israel, Donald Trump cuts a third of the budget to UNRWA – not only because it means less health care for Palestinian refugees, not only because it weakens their education, but also because an active part of destabilising an area when you systematically take away from a whole people's belief in the future. I do not doubt that the government agrees with me on these concerns, and they could probably write winged words in a statement. But politics is what we do, not just what we say. As a good ally, we have to stand where others are failing, and in this context, the United States is failing. Norway must then take responsibility. Why don't we do it more? Why was Norway’s core contribution in 2016 125 million? kr, while it was 150 million. The year before? It's not time to cut, it's time to take responsibility. The same applies to women's right to determine their own bodies. In the statement, the minister mentions that sanitary conditions in schools prevent girls from learning. I totally agree with him on that. But women's ability to control their own bodies is also something that affects their ability to decide over their own lives and to plan it. The government says that there's work priority, but what does that mean? We suggest giving even more to this work. We should want the government to be in on it, because that's now these women need us the most, that's now their rights are being reduced all over the world. We can rely on our development and wealth in terms of female participation, and then we have to escape other countries the same way. The presentation is also an important player in the business world in order to achieve growth. But it's almost as if I feel that I have to remind myself that growth is not the same as development. In many places in the world, including where we provide assistance, there is no shortage of resources that is the fundamental problem. Assistance will help build countries and democracies, not just GDP. There are rich countries with many poor people where resources are limited to a few. If these countries are to have growth, action is needed to ensure that it also means development, and that this growth will not only flow to a few. Norwegian business has been and will be an important contributor in developing countries. In addition to economics and jobs, they also contribute as cultural builders, and Norwegian business is very good. But their model, the model based on tripartite cooperation, the model based on redistribution, is not in these countries. Therefore, when Norway is aiming to generate economic growth through business investment, we must at the same time be sure that this growth does not enhance the distribution of disparities in society but is distributed so that everyone can participate in resource development. In his statement, the Minister said: ‘And we need to use our development policy instruments so that the investment companies make can contribute to the greatest possible development impacts.’ I agree. But what I'm asking is: What concrete development policy instruments are referred to by the Minister? What is the strategy underlying the creation of structures for a more equal distribution by beneficiary countries? To achieve the objectives, it is best to have a plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2617	The representative from SV came with an interesting confession from the pulpit. He had been involved in a lot of stupid work as an assistant, but the representative did not say that u-help was stupid. It was an important clarification. Let's say that the long lines of Norwegian development policy are fixed. The development budget has been set at 1 pst. of gross domestic product over the last 10 years and assistance increased from 18 billion. DKK to 35 billion kr during the same period. This means that Norway is at the top in terms of assistance, measured by both the number of inhabitants and gross domestic product. However, as important as a high aid budget, aid actually works and contributes to poverty reduction, peace and development in these countries. That doesn't mean we're going to do something completely different, something completely new, but we're going to do more of what actually works, with our limited resources. Norwegian assistance has rightly been criticised for being spread too thinly over and too poorly targeted. The government has taken the consequences of and from 2014 reduced the number of countries receiving from 113 to 89, and the number of aid agreements has decreased from 6400 to close to 4000. The need for funding in relation to the UN's sustainability objectives and Agenda 2030 is enormous. Then it doesn't matter how we use our resources. We need to use our help in a way that allows us to document results and see that it sprouts and grows in the soil we sow. There have been various evaluations of Norwegian aid. A comprehensive conclusion is that the achievement of the target is weak and the follow-up of the results is also weak. The results are used to a small extent to evaluate, prioritise and carry out the assistance work in the future. We can't have it that way. When something doesn't work, we have to stop it, and when something proves to work, we have to have more of the same medicine. It is a red thread in the Minister of Aid's statement. The government has increased assistance for education from SEK 1.7 billion. SEK in 2013 to SEK 3,4 billion. kr in 2017. This is an important step in recognising that education and knowledge are the very basis for development and prosperity in a society. Unfortunately, the world situation suggests that we need to turn our aid policy and aid more towards countries directly or indirectly affected by war, migration and refugee flows. However, it is a prerequisite for a successful aid policy that it also has a connection with how we organise and exchange knowledge about this on our own home path. Academia, ministry, sectors and civil society have more to do with interacting and moving in the same direction. This is why the government has set up its own forum, under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to address this issue and to ensure that it converges towards a better outcome and better use of resources, and that the government will return to the revised national budget. Finally, a prerequisite for maintaining the willingness to give and the joy of the Norwegian people, which is an extremely important value and quality to take care of, is that we can document the results of our assistance and show that aid actually contributes to the growth and growth of the societies and countries that we choose to use our 35 billion. kr per. It is a prerequisite for this to be passed on in the coming generations.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2638	Thanks to the government and the Council of State, who has provided a policy statement. I have to say that I appreciate it. There is a good overview of the status, but also of developments that underpin the development policies of the Right and the Government, namely to concentrate, target and ensure that the purpose and the device is about development, and to help people and countries to become better able to cope with themselves and get better lives. There have been too many countries, too many organisations, and just concentrating it on fewer countries and reducing it with a significant number of organisations, citizens so that development policy can also be more effective. But I thought it might now be appropriate to say a few words about the motive for providing – in traditional language – assistance, or help for development, as we call it more and more. For both the Right and the Government, it has been important that the objective of development policy is actually to help us get a more peaceful, but also a more fair world, without the very great tragedies of extreme poverty. It is also an objective of development policy that poverty reduction and relief are the goal and purpose of what we do. The sustainability objectives also constitute the overall framework for Norwegian development policy. We know that both domestic, foreign and development policies have border areas today that are closer to each other than what we have seen in the past. With all the experience we have behind us, both foreign policy and development policy have become much more local, regional and national than we have seen in the past. It is therefore very natural that we see these policies in conjunction with each other. It is increasingly less relevant to ‘their’ approach to ‘our’ interests, and in a world where what happens in one place has consequences regionally and globally, it is much more relevant and relevant to talk about common interests, common challenges, shared responsibilities and common solutions. That is also the starting point for the UN's sustainability objectives. Efforts to give more people in the world access to one of the most basic: education, health care and the ability to have a job, manage themselves, and to combat climate change are in our interest as well as for those to whom it is directed. Different policy areas need to be seen in the context, and in all areas, we must also, as far as possible, pursue a policy that leads us to contribute to a better world and to a better Norway. The Government presents an annual report of compliance in Prop. 1 S, which analyses how Norwegian policies are coherent for development and how the various policy areas affect developments in the international world. As notified in Meld. St. 24 for 2016-2017, Joint Responsibility for the Common Future, the government is now setting up a Cohesion Forum to strengthen Norway’s efforts for development. Assistance itself cannot prevent migration, as little as it alone can create development. It's important, both for the Right and for the Government, that we use all the different tools we have at our disposal. Through just commitment to peace processes, to gain professional cooperation, to trade with one another, to build alliances, but also to work in multilateral forums, we will work for the interests of poor and vulnerable countries. It is important that we also increase our efforts in vulnerable countries in Africa, which are directly or indirectly affected by what we have seen more and more in recent years, namely war and conflict. These countries are also among the poorest in the world, and many are also countries of dispatch, reception and transit for migrants.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2652	We may now experience the greatest environmental challenge facing the world, with all the plastics in the ocean. For Norway, as a coastal, port and maritime power, the sea is a major and crucial resource. It has a major impact on Norway in terms of both workplaces, energy, transport and, in particular, fish and food. The marine ditches we see now threaten not only Norway, but all the nations bordering on the sea. This gives negative results for both fishing and business and contributes to the contamination of the world's food barrels. There is a great need to strengthen the measures that can help reduce the plastic waste disposal we see today. Where does all this come from? According to World Economic Forum calculations, world oceans are allocated 15 tons of plastic per minute, 24 hours a day, all year round. We would like to clean up along our own beaches – a great effort is being made for it today – but there will be a hopeless fight if we do not manage to stop emissions. Marine littering is a global problem, and of the plastic coming to the sea from land through rivers, 90 pst. from ten rivers. We know a lot about where it comes from, and that could be a good starting point. The largest efforts that Norway can make in the fight against marine pollution are actions outside its own borders. We need to raise our eyes and see how, in a performance-oriented and cost-effective way, we can take action elsewhere in the world. We have an aid budget of well over 35 billion. kr, and the Progress Party believes that it should clearly be possible to find substantial funds there for that purpose. The government's already set 150 million. kr of the 2018 aid budget to combat sea litter and plastic in developing countries, but I think we should increase this sum. For the Progress Party, the fight against marine pollution is a matter that is high on the agenda. We need to strengthen and professionalise efforts to remove plastics, both on the shores and below the sea surface. But the most important thing is to find good measures to reduce the supply of plastics in the world's oceans. Many of the countries receiving assistance from Norway have a lack of infrastructure in waste management and rivers are used as landfills. One of the main objectives of the government’s maritime waste management assistance programme is to contribute to more efficient waste management. More earmarking of aid for waste management projects will not only contribute to local value creation, but will also provide a global environmental contribution, which is also an important contribution to poverty reduction on a global scale. The final result will be both a good economy and a huge environmental contribution. We have to say that is good policy. Norway contributes internationally in many areas. The Prime Minister has taken his own initiative in forming an international maritime panel with his own programme against marine pollution. Here the maritime nation of Norway can make a difference.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2669	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2674	I will take the floor after the discussion on the reform of the aid management. The Council of State said that we must at least be able to agree on the objectives, and when the Council of State sketches them, I am of course very much in agreement with them, but I would like to clarify a little bit more of what I think should be the objectives. The first objective should be to strengthen both the U.D. and the Norad. When I think about the Council of State, I think it is very important that a desire for a strengthening of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the competence around it, when one knows that it is the development interests that must be the leaders – not the real politicians, who quickly remain in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which may lead to self-interest taking too much of the governance of development policy. That is why I think it is extremely important that one strengthens that part. In the case of Norad, the Christian People's Party has been very clear that we see a lot of double work and unclear role-sharing, as the Council of State itself has pointed out. We also know that the portfolio they handle has increased enormously. That's why we've been very committed to strengthening the administration and competence there. That is why I believe that improving the results cannot ignore the fact that there is a link between trade and management, and it should be an important objective to strengthen both. I'm going to succeed in achieving goal number. 2, in order to strengthen the U.S. aid professional competence, one must at least avoid rotation. I'm going to be honest with you: the council is probably right that a lot of things can happen eventually, and I'm starting from an NTB message. But now we have the opportunity to give notice to the Council of State, in this debate. If you want to strengthen your skills, you can't move the best professionals from Norad into the U.D., and then, two or three years later, they're in Berlin or in New York. If you want to strengthen your long-term assistance skills, it depends on you having people who are allowed to work with that field over a longer period of time. We know that the usual rotational system used in the U.D. isn't created for it. It is good if the Council of State succeeds in a system such as this. states that one can be at the various embassies and stations and thus strengthens the capacity to provide assistance. In any case, it is an important objective that you have to take into account. The last thing I was talking about is that we want to strengthen the embassies. We want to decentralize the administration, because I think better decisions are taken further, closer to the different situations. That's why we want to move more power out. The examples to which we referred were Mali and Haiti, which in their time were focussed, and they have not had Norwegian Embassy. I record that the Council of State does not say anything about him wanting to involve Stortinget, but I hope he does, because we are many who want to contribute to a successful reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2689	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2705	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2714	I would like to thank the Central Party's proposers for addressing an important issue and thanking the Committee for a good cooperation on this Document 8 proposal for a State Maintenance Programme for the County Road Network. The county road network is about 47 pst. of the total public road network in Norway measured in kilometres, and the county roads connect districts and municipalities and counties to the passenger and freight services that benefit all inhabitants. The Committee agrees that there is a significant maintenance run on the road network. Surveys by the Statens vägvesen from February 2013 show that it will cost between 45 and 75 billion. to remove the decay of the county road network. Transport etats and Avinor recommended to review a re-routing programme for the county road network in the planning basis of NTP 2018-2029 and wrote in the basic document: ‘There is a significant maturity on the road network. The cost of repairing critical infrastructure such as tunnels, bridges and ferries is such that transport modes consider that a separate programme for renewal of the county road network should be considered.’;» Transport etats and Avinor could not find room for priority funds to finance such a program within the given planning frameworks. The Committee invited a hearing on the matter on 6 March 2018. Seven municipalities and ten organisations participated in the hearing. Feedback was expected – there is a large documented maintenance run on the road network, and there is a need for additional efforts to recover some of the delays. The Committee sees the need for an additional effort to take the maintenance run on the county road network, and several proposals are made in this Document 8. The Committee also agrees that framework funding should be the main model for the financing of the local government sector. In the following, I want to do some good for the proposals for the plurals, the Right, the Advance Party and the Left, and leave to the minority to present their own. It is important to build up the infrastructure in the country. Today's government has strongly boosted its efforts on the roads through significant increases in privileges. It is important for business and value creation, and it is important in the everyday lives of the inhabitants. We see that investment also reduces negative environmental impacts, and we see a positive trend with further decline in serious road accidents. The current NTP has a historical focus on transportation and has a frame of 1069 billion. kr. The government has also strengthened the permissions of the county councils in terms of both increased frame rate and earmarked means of racial and anti-slip protection. The administrative reform, which was carried out with the Central Party in government in 2010, led to the transfer of responsibility for governance and control with 17 000 km of highway and 78 ferries from state to county. These were road sections with a great need for maintenance, and the reform was carried out without giving the county councils sufficient privileges and thus was a particularly bad gift from the state to the county councils. Today's government with the Advance Party, the Right and the Left, together with the Christian People's Party, have tried to remedy this. In the current NTP, it is set by 15.6 billion. kr for maintenance and renewal of the county road network. The majority take seriously the clear feedback from county authorities on the situation of road maintenance, tunnels and roadside protection. However, the majority will stress that the county councils are responsible for prioritising road maintenance in their budgets. An important principle is that framework funding should be the main model for financing the municipal sector. There is room for locally customised solutions. A government maintenance programme could be presented as a state over-management of the budgetary responsibilities and priorities of the regional populace. An arrangement in line with the proposal of the Centre Party can be interpreted as meaning that the county councils are in practice placed under State administration. It seems unwise when you find that there are different priorities from state to state. The majority believe that if one is to manage to reduce the maintenance run on the county road network, a viable solution would be to consider introducing a restraint system where, according to a mandatory plan, county municipalities can seek co-financing from the state according to the given criterion. Priorities may include: are seen in the context of how important export routes, including both state roads and national roads, can be better equipped to meet the transport needs of industry. Right, the Progress Party and the Left consider it natural to implement such a cruise control programme in connection with the rolling of the national transport plan. I take up the Right, the Progress Party and the Left's proposals in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2745	The representative of Solveig Sundbø Abrahamsen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2750	I would like to thank the Central Party for the draft representative. The vast majority of our businesses are located along a country road, and in these days many of these roads have gone into disintegration. The maturity of the county roads is estimated in the basic document of NTP to be 70-90 billion. kr, and a new report that we have now received, from Oslo Economics, shows that the maturities increase by 2.5 to 3 billion. kr per year. This is serious. Increased efforts will, according to the same report, provide a formidable socio-economic net benefit. Few other transport measures will bring similar benefits. The quality of the county road network is compromised by safety, but the competitiveness of Norway is also affected by poor road quality. Many county roads are important transport modes. Let it be clear: the county councils have been good road owners, and they have taken responsibility. But responsibility and authority are challenging. The county has many major tasks that go beyond the state budget. When we propose more to other measures that are also part of the county budget, it goes beyond road maintenance. In connection with the NTP, we made proposals that county councils should be able to be a better weigher, and have followed up this with an increased county council framework in our alternative budget. In this case, the Council of State decides that the government has chosen to continue the arrangement to distribute funds through the income system and that the government has granted billions in the previous aggregate period. This is taken out of context, for one must first look at what has been removed, what is to be financed by the tasks assigned, and not least how large the cost growth of road construction has been. For example, this government has reduced regional development funds to the county by 1.3 billion. kr, and the requirements of the tunnel safety regulation are not fully financed. It's ten times as much highway as highway. Climate change with floods and breeds gives county municipalities large, unforeseen expenditure. When roads and bridges are gone, it must be fixed. This is no longer compensated by the state. The tunnel safety regulation was also to be compensated for counties. But at the speed of this government, the minimum measures are financed in 2037, while the deadline is 2019. The other national roads were transferred to the county municipalities in 2010, and I want to use the Southern Tributes as an example. A plan was put in place to remove the follow-up they took over. The maturity was estimated to cost 800 million in 2012. kr, and the plan stated that the maturity would be lost in 2020 – that is, removed in eight years. In 2017, they were 800 million. kr in maturity increased to 2.8 billion. kr. Consider: In five years, the maturity has increased by 2 billion. kr. Much of this is due to the tunnel safety regulations, which are due to large breeds and floods, and something else is due to cost increases – but much is due to a lack of space for action. The challenges faced by county municipalities are that the Minister of Transport often puts new toll projects on county roads before the Stortinget. They have local approval because the county councils take responsibility. They see trailers and traffic-hazardous and mutilated roads. Finally, we ask that the proposal of the minority should not be opposed to the proposal of the majority. If we do not have a majority in favour of the proposal for a programme to reduce the maintenance run on the county roads, we would, after all, like to support the investigation of a reward scheme in connection with the rolling of the NTP – although this is, of course, too late. There's a hurry to make a lift for our county roads. That is why we think it is a pity that the majority does not agree with the proposal for a State programme. And so the minority proposal is taken up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2771	Then the representative Kirsti Leirtrø has taken up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2776	When SV, the Centre Party and the Workers' Party made a half-hearted attempt to implement the administrative reform in 2010, the county municipalities were transferred for a total of 17 000 km by extra county roads. This gift was described as the gift no one would have. The evening post had a case in 2009 that the states had doubts about the gift from the state. And in the Municipal Report in 2008, we could read that the counties are not advised to take over the roads. The government will not enable the highways until they transfer them to the states. Then the states should say no. That is what my colleague Mr. Bård Hoksrud said when he was on the Transport Committee. Another good colleague, then County rapporteur Nils Aage Igstad, said in the East German magazine that this gift from the state will affect road safety along the roads in Akershus. We all agree that the county roads are too bad, and we all agree that the county roads must be given priority, but it is a little special that the centre party, which is responsible for the fact that the counties are now responsible for so many thousand kilometers of miserable county roads, would not do anything about it when they put in position and directed the country, but first take hold of this now as they are in opposition. They could have done as Hoksrud said, namely, put the roads in place before they gave them away. The center party had a very good time and opportunity to do something about it when they were in position, but they didn't choose to do it. But the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have actually taken a great responsibility to help the states to take care of their ways. Since we joined the government, we've approximately tripled the appropriations for the county roads, and we've reintroduced the interest compensation scheme by two to three billion. kr annually from 2013 to 2017. It was a very favourable arrangement where the states could borrow money from the state, and the state covered the interest costs. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have made sure that the State has taken greater responsibility for the county roads than would have been the case for the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV had run – and as it was when they ran. But we can't take responsibility for the states. The counties themselves must take responsibility for their ways. It's important to clarify. In many counties, about as much money is spent on subsidising unprofitable public transport as it is on both the operation and maintenance of poor county roads. If there is sufficient customer base, it is probably reasonable, but it will be extra bad if there is no need, if there are no passengers, and the buses are running around almost empty. In my home country, Hedmark, the cross-sectional coating on the buses is so low that the passengers could fit in a taxi. Then it is wrong to prioritize subsidisation of empty buses, to use a tabloid concept, rather than highways, when we know that the aftermath on the county roads is enormous. It's at least 60-70 billion. kr, and it's the county roads that people complain about. Keep in mind that the buses also need safe and safe roads to drive on. We take care of our highways. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party ensure that the budget for civil society is increased and that it is given priority. We've actually increased the budget by over 60 pst. Since we joined the government, and we have stopped maturing. Now it is time for them to take responsibility for their roads, mainly the Workers' Party and the Center Party-led states. To show how bad the red-green states are like weighers, I want to illustrate it with interesting numbers from a note, just written by the red-green: ‘In 2016, around 11 billion were used. kroner for operation of the highways, towards 5 billion. crowns for operation of the county road network. Calculated in metres, this becomes NOK 1040/metre for the national road and NOK 133/metres for the county road.’» I don't fully understand the logic of why SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre emphasise this to support their comments, because it just shows what we have said all along, namely that the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party do a good job of taking care of our national roads, while the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV do a bad job of taking care of their country roads. We're going to continue to help the states. We've done that, and we're going to keep doing that. We will ensure that the state supports contributions, and we will ensure that it becomes a fissile layer, or a co-financing, and that the export routes are better preserved. We'll get back to that in NTP.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2802	The centre party has presented this proposal because we see how bad the state of many of the county roads is. We can't blame the county councils. They have proved to be good road owners after taking over large parts of the state road network. The county councils get a lot out of the money they have, but they don't have enough. The county road network is more than three times the national road network, but this is not reflected in the appropriations. In 2016 it was used NOK 1040 per metre of highway, but only NOK 133 per metre of highway. We have reports that estimate the overall maintenance run to over 60 billion. kr, and a recent analysis by Oslo Economics shows that if the promises for the maintenance of tyres and foundations are increased by approx. One and a half billion. kr per year for the period 2018-2029, it will generate a net socio-economic benefit of between 8.3 billion. kr and 11,9 b.w. kr. Oslo Economics has also quantified the cost of pushing maintenance forward in time. For example, a five-year outsourcing of maintenance kits will reduce the social benefit by 2.1 billion. kr. There is no doubt that something has to be done. In the basic document of the National Transport Plan, the trade unions suggested that a specific programme should be put in place. The centre party has addressed this both in our alternatives to NTP and in later state budgets. We believe that the cost of waiting for the maturity to increase is too high for people and businesses who use the county roads – because it's just people and businesses that it's about. Few of them can only use the national road network. Many high-value enterprises are located along a country road. If we are to be able to maintain the value creation in the country, we must have a completely good road network. We at Stortinget must take responsibility. The Government Parties have argued that the County Road Programme will be a state overarching programme. It's a strange rhetoric. If we're going to have county municipalities, we need county municipalities with economic space to do the tasks we want them to do. For example, state overmanagement may also be when income systems are changed to cut the provision of services to people by county municipalities. We see it clearly in Northern Ireland, where people experience cut-offs because the government cuts the income by over 260 million. kr annually. The estate also adopts city packages where the state is inside with 50 pst. co-financing. These projects are barely within political governance, but are prioritised by a few through so-called portfolio management. A state programme for the county roads does not mean that the state should give priority to the state which state roads are to be maintained but that the state is involved in the financing. They are those who know the needs best, and of course they are those who will also give priority to the projects with a state-run road programme. The Committee had a hearing in the matter, with good attendance and full support of the proposal. In addition, there are other things that we think make sense to do something about. The financing of the tunnel safety regulation is planned to be phased out by the government. We believe that this compensation must continue until 2024 if the states are to be able to achieve the requirements. Furthermore, weaknesses in the State contribution schemes were identified in the event of major unforeseen events. In recent years, we have examples of floods, gliding and tunnel fires where the bill has become very high, and where the state has contributed. We want predictability, especially at a time when climate change is a threat. We see that the government parties are under pressure in this matter, and that they are trying to meet us with their proposals. We believe that waiting for the rolldown of the NTP becomes too defensive. We don't have time to wait. In addition, we are not given any explanation as to whether the county roads are something the government wants to bet on, or whether there is something to be assessed. The Christian People's Party is as is known not in the Committee, but the Christian People's Party is in the position in Northernland, and I know from there that they stand strongly behind what was carried out at the hearing in the Nordland County Commune; it was that they should be in favour of this. I hope that the Christian People's Party will join us on this promise for highways.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2819	Like the others, SV believes that framework funding should be the main model for financing the municipal sector. This provides room for locally adapted solutions, and as seen, it is the most accurate resource use. Framework funding is also less administratively demanding, both for the State and for the local level. Ioda, the government has strengthened the framework grant to the county councils for the renewal and upgrading of the county road network, with a breakdown according to different criteria of the maintenance seat run. In the 2018 budget, it is set at 1.3 billion. kr within the framework grant to counties for distribution for the purpose. Unfortunately, this is not enough – not far enough. There are many people who have said this, and most people in the room admit it: it's not enough. There is a formidable aftermath in the maintenance of the county roads. It's about 60 billion. kr plus/minus. The increased government appropriations are unable to comply with price increases and new requirements, not least because of the EU tunnel regulations. In addition, a road is almost never laid down. The old one just stays lying down and still needs maintenance. The number of kilometers increases and increases. In its alternative budget, SV has added significantly to the framework transfer to the municipal sector and increased the funds to the interest compensation scheme for the counties. We also added more to racial and anti-slip protection, among other things. on the county roads. The problem is that the county roads live in the shadow of the major motorway projects – so we must be honest that we can say that. That's where billions go pretty easy. That's why I asked for more honesty here in the hall. You don't have to think that you can give a lot to everything, you have to be honest and take from something to give to something, for example. the highways. This has been repeated by SV from this pulpit many times. But we take money from something. That's where we separate ourselves from the other parties, which never manage to prioritize. I think I've mentioned New Veier AS from this pulpit sometimes, and I think I've mentioned free E39 sometimes from this pulpit. We would like, among other things: Get some money there. Can't have a little courage and honesty to admit and, for example, Say: We in the Right – or Advance Party – have given priority to this, and then the county roads suffer. Unfortunately, even the state politicians, the majority of the largest parties, will always have everything, both giant highways and fjord crossings to their district, while at the same time demanding money for the county roads. I think this is a proper situational description. When the county road network is about four times as far as the national road network, while twice as much money goes to the highways as to the county roads, there's something to think about. Of course I know that there are different standards, but these numbers tell something. SV believes that there is a lack of consistency between the ambitions for maintaining the county roads in the national transport plan and the size of the appropriations that follow from the government and the current large numbers. It is true that SV is a railway party and a party for collective solutions, but I have also said several times that we are a road party, but thus a road party for the districts and among others. the defenders of the county roads. That's how we prioritise our budgets. I wish several others would have done the same with some honesty. We think it is absolutely necessary to raise the county road network, for the maintenance and maintenance of the roads, and I think the proposal for a state maintenance programme is a good way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2842	The left is happy with reward schemes, because it gives a clear incentive to prioritize. Then there is a split layer between state and state. We also recognise that there is a clear need to improve the county roads and not least to grant more money. A reward scheme proposed by the majority in this case, and to be investigated, we think we can be the key to getting the right priorities where there is the greatest need. We believe that the main highways to maintain are where there is a lot of commercial traffic, and not least where we have major accidents. Traffic safety needs to be improved, and we have statistics that it's bad on the county roads. You also have to commit to getting faster, you might have to increase the tonnage on these roads, and you have to bring down the number of accidents. This must be undertaken by the county councils in order to be part of this reward scheme at all. The left is very concerned with the transport of business life. We know that the salmon can be found along the coast and transported on county roads before crossing the highway or the railway. And it has to go far. This salmon is going far, and it is going to a market that is very crested as to how long it takes from being slaughtered on the coast of Norway until it is on the dining table in France – or in Japan, for that matter. This industrial route of salmon and other coastal industries requires a clear improvement of the current standard. I hear there are more people here in the hall who say that the county councils are good road owners. I know that there are also several people here who have been representatives in the county. I think that when you get to your budgets, including the county council, and I have a good knowledge of the city council as well, maintenance often becomes the balancing item. You don't get many votes on maintenance. New ways and new measures are the easiest way for politicians to talk about also at municipal and county level, and that is enough where we have to be very restrictive considering that this money should be a framework finance. It's the Left very much for, too, but I think you really need to tighten up in the different democratic bodies so that you don't forget that maintenance is very important. Reward schemes and business traffic are the priorities for the Left in this case, and we hope that we will have a good system, which the county councils use – and use in a proper way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2856	We have good experience with spice layers in transport policy. Partnership between countries, counties and municipalities is important in order to provide good transport solutions. In areas of local responsibility, the State contributes differently, including financially, inter alia: through various reward schemes. The county roads are the responsibility of the counties, but it is nevertheless absolutely necessary for the state to take responsibility. This is done, among other things: today through direct grants to county roads, through racial protection grants and, of course, through the general framework transfer. For the Christian People's Party it has always been important to give priority to the county roads. It's about having safe, safe and efficient roads where people are extra dependent on good roads, and where public transport is not a suitable alternative. Therefore, the Christian People's Party prioritises funds for the county roads in the annual state budgets, and our local politicians around the country raise the county roads when they make their priorities. The split layer between the country and the weigher is important. The State shall not override the local or regional level, but the State shall contribute. Here comes the reward scheme – a reward scheme in which the county council can get help from the state, and co-financing will contribute to the fissure layer on which we depend. Such a scheme will respect local self-government while at the same time committing itself to contributing. Because it is the state that ultimately has decision-making power over the priorities, and it is the local level that determines the order of priority of the projects and which knows best what action must be taken first. That is why the Christian People's Party supports what is recommended by the Committee in the vote, namely to have a reward scheme established. So, of course, it's quite natural that such a scheme should be introduced at the next roll of the NTP. The same applies to the mapping, as requested in proposal No. 2 of the Committee. Of course, different subsidies to county roads must be included in the annual budgets. There's a Christian People's Party a driver to get good solutions in place every year. Major measures, such as: a reward scheme is, must enter the NTP as a permanent and permanent scheme. It's only when one gets the predictability you need, and it makes us able to raise this, not just from one year to the next, but over time, as a continuous bet that can give the effect and the goal that we all want: a reduced maintenance kit on all of our county roads. Because there's a huge aftermath on the county road network, which several of the speakers have already been involved in. And that – I would like to stress – is not due to bad local or regional politicians, it is primarily because the states took over a great aftermath from the state in their time. It's a aftermath that requires a lot of resources to resume. Ever since the roads were transferred to the counties in connection with the administrative reform almost ten years ago, the Christian People's Party has been aware that it is the responsibility of the state to ensure that county municipalities are financially able to maintain and operate the county road network. The counties must be able to make investments that provide the basis for a safe and efficient road network that works well for business and citizens, and which can contribute not least to fewer deaths and injuries, which unfortunately are much higher on our county roads than on our national roads. Then we depend on a good municipal economy, a good framework for the counties and the state's contribution through grants. We have a challenge today precisely because the economic environment associated with the transfer of responsibility of the roads from the state to the states did not meet the major challenges of the states at the time. We're struggling with that today. We can go back and look at the municipality proposal for 2010, where the financial framework for the county roads was laid by the red-green ones. Prior to the reform, it was promised that the government would provide sufficient money, but when large parts of the national road network were to be transferred to the county council, we saw that this promise was broken. So I hear today that the representative of the Central Party is asking the Christian People's Party to support their proposal for a solution. If increased State funding of the county roads is to be achieved, this effort must enter the NTP. That is why we support the proposals of the government parties. We think that gives a proper approximation and not least a binding approach. Then there is a proposal from the Labour Party today to support a proposal that we made two weeks ago. It would have been a good effect to be able to give the counties extra help when some roads are exposed because of flooding and damage. Unfortunately, that race has passed, so we're sorry.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2877	I would like to thank you for the promotion of the proposal and for the debate. At the same time, I would like to remind you that a lot has been done in those years, so the theme is in no way new. As an opposition politician, I remember reacting to poor maintenance of our road network, both national roads and county roads. I also reacted to the poor maintenance of the railway and to a lot of other infrastructure. There has been a topic that has been discussed in this country for many, many years. VG has had reports on, inter alia, intermittently. Consulting Engineers' Association, which has surveyed the state of the infrastructure in the country, concluded that there is an ever-increasing decline. The only sector that largely kept up with needs was our airports, through Avinor, organized as an independent company with great success. That is why I am very proud that today's majority, the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party, have made clear priorities in the budgets – yes, not just once, but five times in a row. One has ensured that the maintenance of the infrastructure has increased both on the road and on the rail, and that there has been a doubling of the appropriations both for road maintenance and for railway maintenance. As a result, the downturn on our roads is now falling on national roads and on European roads. We haven't got exactly the same development on the county roads, but let's not do black paint. We have received a letter from the KS pointing out that the economic space that you have received in recent years has also resulted in an increase in the allocation of money to county roads, and that the proportion of county roads that are in poor or very poor condition has fallen in recent years. It shows that the economic space provided to municipalities and municipalities by the current government has been partly used for this purpose. At the same time, it's not good enough when about 40 pst. of which there is poor or very poor cover. Then there is still a job to be done. That is why it is important that we continue the efforts made by the government, as we also had in the National Transport Plan, to have good appropriations for the counties and municipalities in the future. There is a proposal in the national transport plan to grant 15.6 billion. kr to county roads. So we're going to have the framework transfers. It is important to stress that we have chosen to allocate responsibilities and tasks in this country, where the state has national roads and European roads, the counties have county roads, and the municipalities have their local roads. What this proposal really invites is a fundamental discussion of what we need the county to do. Do we really need to have a county council if it is not to be responsible for carrying out their tasks, but to delegate it to government planning programs? It's actually a little opposite of what the Central Party normally tends to give the impression that we're going to make the decisions near where people live, but here we see that the Labour Party and the Center Party are unable to take those decisions close to where they live and solve the problems, and then they're going to push this over to the state. I take that as a compliment, because that suggests that the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, the local politicians, would rather have a bourgeoisly run government that governs and grants money to the county councils' maintenance of roads than to retain that responsibility itself. I still don't think it's smart to adopt it through a proposal like this. There should be a consequence of a major discussion on the role of county councils and how to finance them. As I have already mentioned, the appropriations have increased significantly both to the general states and within the appropriations for county roads, especially above the state budget. In the National Transport Plan for the previous period, 2014–2023, the Stoltenberg Government proposed to use its own pot for county roads. We have more than overfilled it – over 4 billion. kr, where one had planned to spend 2.5 billion. kr – in addition to a good framework for county municipalities. I think this is a good proposal the majority has made here. It gives us some guidance signals about how we're going to work further towards the National Transport Plan. I take that with me, and it is important that we have good cooperation in government and big business, so that we can take care of both national roads and county roads. Let me remind you anyway, when the Center Party itself repeatedly takes up the difference there is in the allocations to highways and county roads: they can only point out that that difference was much less before. When the Central Party ruled the country, the difference was much smaller, because then both highways and highways passed away. Now we've managed to stop the decay on the highways, but it's still on the highways. Then we have to ask, who is there really a person should be able to rule more? This suggests that civil government is fixing the decay on the roads, not the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2896	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2901	In the north, we want a new government. One of the first things this government did was to bring down the transfers to many counties with large county road networks. For example, the people of Northern Ireland have to take a cut of over 1 billion. kr over 4 years. At the same time, it is strange to say that the government strengthens the framework grant to the county road network. Everything is related to everything in a county municipality. Gives a cut of 1 billion. kr over four years in the Nordic region a strengthening of the county council's ability to give people and industry better transport?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2908	I have been confronted with this issue in almost all the counties I've traveled to, where red-green politicians say they've been cut in the appropriations in proportion to what they think they deserve. But that's not the case when you have a record local economy, the best one in over 20 years points out actually.no – everyone can get a cut. Even in Oslo, the red-green people think they're getting too little money compared to what they've earned, so it's going to be a very artificial problem. What I note, on the other hand, is that all of these states, which the Central Party believes are getting too little money, now have more profits than they have had in the past. That means there's a room for action to prioritize county roads if you want it, with the profits you have.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2913	The representative Mossleth for a new line.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2918	If I can finish, because I have 15 seconds left: I just want to remind you that the extent of the county roads that the centre party is sorry about now, it was the centre party itself that decided to lie in the counties. That's why the Central Party is the strangest party of all to promote the proposal that has now been promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2923	It seemed as if the line was over, but it was an art break, so the president was wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2928	The Council of State likes to give the impression that the transport policy is lucid. Some of the delays on the national roads have been reduced, although important sections such as Sørelva-Borkamo, Ulvsvågskaret and Sandvika-Sagelva remain. But now it's time for a country wing lift. I am pleased that the majority in the committee also sees the need. However, waiting for three years to assess a turf lift is particularly defensive, and it almost seems that many other district projects in the NTP are going to be pushed out in time. Is it now that you cannot develop a transport policy for the next three years? Are they supposed to be waiting?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2935	I think it's little that characterizes this government in terms of the claim that there have not been reforms along the way. This government has carried out more reforms in our first growing-up period than the Central Party at all thought to start for its eight years. The claim that the districts are all the way down comes often from the Center Party, but it's actually not right. Let me just remind you, if you see how the money was distributed in the previous national transport plan and how we have distributed it: in the previous national transport plan, the Centre prioritised more money to the Oslo and Akershus region than to the West, than to the South, than to Middle Norway. During today's government there will be more money for the West, for the Middle Norway, for the South than for the Central East. If there is one government that centralised the movement effort, it was the Center Party in the Ministry of Transport. If there is one government that has prioritised the districts, it is today’s government that has done so. We've also taken a lift for the county roads, and I've mentioned that in the pulpit. It doesn't change even if the Center Party doesn't like it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2942	The Transport Committee has been on a committee mission and the feedback from the county municipalities is that the reason for the greatest delay is the tunnel safety regulation. It's one of the proposals from the minority here, to extend the compensation scheme. For example, South-Trøndelag has received 14 million annually. kr, and the cost of repairing the regulation is 800 million. kr. That means it'll take a few years. My question to the Council of State is: How does the Council of State think that county councils are going to solve the requirements of the tunnel safety regulation?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2948	It is important that we take care of our tunnels, both to upgrade them safely, and also to maintain them. It was also one of the areas where the appropriations had been missing, where the decay increased. The tunnel safety regulation had been in force for six, seven, eight years under the red-greens without anyone choosing to introduce it, because one would not grant money to the states. We made sure that the tunnel safety regulations were introduced, so that the counties started getting that money. So to get criticism from the Workers' Party that one will be delayed in achieving the goals, when the Workers' Party itself scrambled away six, seven years on not wanting to start the work, I just think it is unreasonable. We have approx. quadrupled allocations for tunnel maintenance, from around 600 million. kr in the last years under the red-green government – the budget of the red-greens actually went down in the last year – until now over 2.5 billion. kr. It is important that we work well with the county councils, so that we see the maintenance work in a context. The criticism from the Workers' Party seems quite wrong when we see the story.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2957	It wasn't a criticism, it was a question of how the Council of State saw, that the county councils could solve it, if that could be possible. I'll ask the question a little bit differently. Now it was such that the tunnel safety regulation did not apply to the highway at that time. That's what it's doing now. Could it be possible to have a postponement in the case of the tunnel safety regulation, or does the Council of State see that more money can be allocated to them to target them?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2964	As I have mentioned, the government and the majority of the population have adopted increased appropriations for the county municipalities. The counties also have large profits now, many of them. This means that there is increased scope for action to make priorities within this. If individual states believe that they will be too late to target the commitments they have, it is natural that they contact the Ministry of Transport so that we can discuss those matters. There are also some tunnels that the state will be too late to implement the maintenance, simply because we want to build new ones. Some of them are, for example, on the Arna–Voss section, where we now have the planning programme out and make sure we get a whole new stretch, instead of fixing the old ones who are there. Then we have to show that we have a plan for how to do it, even if you don't reach the goal in time. When I replied as I did, it was because the representative in his post criticised the government that we would be delayed to reach the goal. Then I think it is reasonable to point out that the Labour Party government did not even try to start working to achieve the goal when one himself had the power.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2973	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2980	The Central Party, with its proposal for a state maintenance programme for the county road, has responded to the call from industry and the people about a lift to maintain the upgrading of the well 44,000 kilometres of highways around the country. This is also a need for the many listening recordings from counties and different transport organisations have underlined. There are clear messages that their highways need to be upgraded to a decent and safe standard for both people and goods. So there's no shortage of calls about the great aftermath of maintaining county roads. The last winter has been really challenging for the maintenance costs, with increased wear on our road network. Large amounts of precipitation, either rain or snow, contribute to making the road standard poorer, through the race and leaching of the road surface. Bad road standard leads to increased wear and tear on running clothes and leads to increased risk of accidents and higher costs for drivers. So it's going to be 50 pst. higher risk of being killed or seriously injured on a road than on a highway. Even if the emergency room generally goes down now — which is very pleasing — we cannot be satisfied with the fact that the roadway poses such a high risk of accident to the road users. I must say that when I heard the message from the representative Johnsen, I wondered if the representative was on the phone, because there were many clear messages that had a very different picture to tell. Hordaland County appears in their statements about the cases that they have a maintenance run of a total of 7.3 billion. kr, and nearly half of this applies to critical infrastructure, such as bridges and tunnels. The municipality of Trom points out that some salmon hauliers are unable to use the load capacity of their vehicle combinations due to axle load restrictions. The Association of Machine Entrepreneurs sees about 50 p.m. the state of satisfaction of the road network on the deck. Forest and timber industries face major challenges for poor rural roads in order to get timber transport out efficiently and cost-effectively, and one must give priority to bottlenecks on the road network, preventing the use of the main freight train for timber transport. We are classified in competitiveness among 137 countries in the World Economic Forum report and ranked as the 11th, but on road quality we are ranked 58th place. The center party refers to KS, which has repeatedly been called for just such a national maintenance program as we want, and regrets that we don't get the plurality of this, but register a plurality for a reward scheme. [[The President cut off]] The Centre shall support the proposal for a decision as a subsidiary.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e2995	The President will practise speaking time hereafter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3000	I get that – when you jump in a little early during the art breaks. The county councils are responsible for the majority of our road network. The maintenance phase is large, much larger than the county municipalities are able to cover through the financial frameworks that have become their part in the state budgets submitted in recent years. The transport conditions expressed in the basic document to the national transport plan that there is a significant downturn in the county road network and that the allocations from the country to the counties are not sufficient. The costs associated with the improvement of critical infrastructure such as tunnels, bridges and ferries are so extensive that the transport modes considered that a separate programme for the renewal of the county roads should be considered. This government is hiding behind expert judgements when appropriate and disregards them when best suited — for such a maintenance programme was not prioritised in the national transport plan. The central party also did not receive support for the proposal in the 2018 State Budgetary Conference. With our budget proposals, the states would have had the opportunity to reduce the deficit by 1 billion. kr – not enough, but at least a start. Our county roads make up 80 pst. of the total length of the national and county road network. 45 pst. of all fatal and serious accidents occurring on the county roads. I had hoped that the Progress Party in particular would follow this up better when this proposal came to the table. It would give a strong bet on the county roads. They should be among those who supported the proposal, because the proposal falls well within the framework of the challenges set out in the JELUEA declaration, and not least in the objective that government will reduce the backlog also on the county road network, not only on the national road network. The fact that the right is not so concerned about the important food routes throughout the country is not so surprising, especially in the light of the changes that the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and the former Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation Sanner has faced. In transport policy, this government follows up the decisions of the national transport plan and the budgets, but nothing more. Strong words about increased bets and growth ambitions are not followed up by action and instruments. The statement states: «The government will continue to reduce the maintenance run in the road sector.» That's good. I thought it would mean that the parties were willing to assess the means, so that one could achieve this goal. Instead, it is most important to draw the motives of the proposers, including those signed, into doubt, or to attach ourselves to intentions that we do not have at all. The proposal has been interpreted, we can read in the setting – interpreted entirely out of context, I would say. In addition, one with creative numerical representation. In the setting of the Committee, a first reading may be given: ‘The government has chosen to strengthen the framework of the county councils for the renewal and upgrading of the county road network by dividing by characteristics of the maintenance run’. Further, you can read: ‘The majority are some of the reasons why framework funding should be the main funding model for the municipal sector, as it provides room for locally adapted solutions and more accurate resource use.’ This is no one who disagrees. There's simply a disagreement about what ambition you're going to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3033	We have challenges across the country related to maintenance of the county road network. It is not linked to the unwillingness of state politicians, as it sounds from some in this Chamber, but to the lack of funds for this field. The size must take on board the fact that not enough funds are transferred for maintenance and for upgrading and building new county roads. It once again means that there is a shameful standard on many of our ways. We all know that's the truth. I'll stick to North Norway. In Finnmark we have a lag of 2.2 billion. kr. All over North Norway, you can sum it up to 18 billion. kr, only Nordland County has 9 billion. kr. The representatives of the government parties would then say that the Northern Norwegian county municipalities are Labour Party-led and do not prioritise roads. It is true that they are Arbeiderparti-steered, but the fact is that over a long time too little money has been transferred to the county roads and for maintenance. The problem is a lack of appropriations. Norway spends enormous sums on transport, especially on roads and railways. It means better reachability and better offer to travellers. The Labour Party does not criticise the commitment to trade, but the funds are not equally well distributed. When the national road network is upgraded, the county road network is due throughout the country. The tunnel requirement is severe for individual counties. Only in the district of Trom is there a need of 3.5 billion. kr to upgrade the tunnels to comply with the tunnel regulations. It sounds as if the spokesperson of the Progress Party is only responsible for the national roads. We in this room and we in the Transport Committee are responsible for the entire road network. In Finnmark, we have many sections that we would like to see upgraded a long time ago. We've got fv. 885 to Pasvik, near the Russian border. It's in a very bad constitution. The same applies to the route from Børselv in Porsanger v Lebesby in Lebesby municipality. In this area, large quantities of fish are transported, contributing to the increase in Norway’s fish exports. Finnmark County Municipality has upgraded the road over Ifjord Fjellet, but Ifjord-Tana has not yet been completed – due to a lack of funds, not a lack of will. In the municipality of Hasvik we need – together with many other places – covering. When I'm home in Havøysund, I can take a trip to Hallvika – on a country road – and just note the misery. It is a poor comfort to my communities that the roads in some other parts of the county are even worse, and that they must be given priority first. There is a need for a national lift to raise the standard on the county road network. The majority of the Committee requests the distribution and monitoring of the situation. That means they see challenges for the county roads, but don't take the necessary steps.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3046	When I heard representatives from the Central Party in this debate, I would almost think that there has just been a wake-up, that they have now realized that there is a maintenance kit on the county roads. There's nothing new, we've been pointing this out for years. There is a problem that has grown up over several years, perhaps several decades, and there is every reason to take it seriously and try to take action to reduce it. We agree on that. In 2010, however, an administrative reform was carried out in which large parts of what was then the national road network were transferred to the county municipalities. This reform was therefore carried out with the Red-Green Government and with a responsible Central Party Council. The transfer was carried out without any obligating plan to reduce the maintenance set-off. Since then, we have been replaced by the government – thank you and price – and this means that we have also received an extra bet on both the highway and the highway. In the period 2014-2017, the national transport plan, adopted under a red-green government, was set at 2.8 billion. extra to measures on the road network. We've granted 4.3 billion. kr. In the National Transport Plan for 2018-2029, submitted by the Right-Fremskritsparte-Government and adopted together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, it is set at 15.6 billion. kr for the next 12 years, just in addition to additional measures for renewal and maintenance on the road network. So it's in addition to the ordinary framework grants and the 12 billion. kr contained in racial protection measures. These funds are distributed on the basis of actual maintenance kits, so that there is a more precise and accurate system than a transfer of the framework grants to the extent that they will be. In our approach to this matter, we have not made great efforts to meet the Centre Party, as the representative Mossleth said, but we have tried to find a better proposal, because we believe that the county councils, which are responsible for the county roads, still have an obligation to draw up their own plans for resuming this maintenance set-up. They must also take financial responsibility for implementing the necessary measures and making the necessary priorities. But we realize, in line with the rest of the hall, that it requires state co-financing. This is precisely what we have asked the Council of State and the government to investigate in the context of the NTP process that we are now in the process of: a reward scheme, a co-financing scheme, which will help to lift this field significantly and ensure that we can reduce the maintenance set-up even more on the county roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3061	Investment in road repair is investment in safety, life conservation and productivity growth, and county municipalities are good road owners. There I disagree with both the representative Gunnes and the representative Johnsen, but when we have limited resources, something necessarily has to suffer. I am amazed when the representative Johnsen slaughters the county council and boasts the state in the clouds. I am not quite sure that those who run the E16 between Arna and Voss agree – or to the extent that those who run on Rv. 13 between Sand and Erfjord, two roads owned by the State, which became No. 1 and No 3 in Norway’s worst roads. We are pleased that the position sees that we have to do something, but NTP is too late – this is urgent. In the hearing, the industry gave clear signals, both producers and carriers. As I said, road investment is investment in, among other things, increased productivity, and when vehicle combinations cannot transport goods from the districts, these manufacturers look around for other locations. It means depopulation in the districts and increased settlement in central districts. The Labour Party wants people all over the country. I think the Council of State did something clever when he said that we should not take the debate on the eligibility of the county council here, because there is much else that justifies the presence of the county council. However, it is important that county municipalities are able to carry out the maintenance they are going to do, and the so-called increase to the West is probably also largely financed by user tolls.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3074	If we were to take into account all the rumours that we have apparently increased the framework funding so much that everything should shine now, we would think that the maintenance run is going down. But it does not – naturally, because very many states have a real downturn in the money book. This should not surprise the Minister for Transport, even though it is the Minister for Local Affairs who is responsible for these changes. In contrast to the Blue-Blue Government and the Christian People's Party, I understand that maintenance does not become a higher priority, when the tool to make it possible to drop out of high school or offer a lower dental offer. For 2018, the government proposed an increase in the county councils’ framework of 200 million. DKK, of which 100 million. NOK was set off for the coastal states' boating and ferrying operations. And of the 100 million. In other words, all county councils would be able to invest in higher education, public transport, dental health, culture and, above all, improved maintenance and renewal of the county roads – while at the same time increasing wages and prices. These operations don't jump out. Creative numbering, also in the setting, that more money should be used to ensure that the maintenance set run continues to decline, as it does not match the reality out there. I still have the pleasure of meeting a single representative, regardless of the party, who believes that high school should be set up to increase the maintenance rate on the county road network. It's about the overall bet, and it's about the condition in which this hall puts the stuff out there to just solve the problems they're assigned to, including, among other things, providing an adequate and safe road network to operate on. I have to remind you again that a large proportion of the transport takes place on the county road network, and there is a much greater chance of being severely damaged and killed on this road network. It obliges this room to actually try to use the means available to reduce the maintenance backlog. I notice that you haven't been willing enough, because you have so much time, as the representative of the Christian People's Party had to wait until this becomes part of the national transport plan. In the same context, however, it is suggested that framework funding should continue to be pursued. There is therefore no need to look this up against a national transport plan and rollover during the next period of the national transport plan. It could have come now. I note with interest that the Council of State considered that, since people out there feel that more money is needed to solve these problems, they could ask questions about whether the county councils are needed. Of course, you could draw the same line when it comes to the municipalities, but I think you'll agree that the problems are best solved by those who know where the shoe is pressing. In this case — and too much of the road network in Norway — the county authorities know where the shoe prints on the road network.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3090	Maintenance of county roads is a municipal responsibility. It should therefore be the task of the county councils to give priority to funds for the maintenance of county roads within their own budgetary framework. It is the Council of State who writes this in its letter to the Transport and Communications Committee. The central party agrees in principle, but the question is, how has the government suggested in recent years that this principle can be observed? In the 2018 budget, the government proposed an increase of 200 million. kr to counties. Of that income, 100 million was. kr bound up to the boating and ferry operations of coastal states. So it's going to be 100 million. kr in fresh funds cover the investment in higher education, public transport, etc. In the opinion of the Committee on Transport and Communications, it is noted that with today's allocation, there is an increase of between 2.5 billion. kr and 3 brd. kr annually. This is what the Minister for Transport says that the county councils are responsible for prioritizing within their own framework. In fact, today's government has to take responsibility for the last five years' increased maintenance seat drivage. I would like to hear what the Minister of Education had said if the county councils re-prioritized appropriations of this size from secondary education to county roads, or what the Minister of Transport would say that the counties re-prioritized such billions from statutory school pillows to county roads. Clearly, this is not going to happen. The reality is that the county councils with today's tight budget do not have the opportunity to recover the necessary costs of re-establishing the maintenance set-up. This means that business continues to suffer from poor performance and excessive wear and tear. It is true that the blue-blue government has continued to allocate the appropriations according to specific criteria based on maintenance kits. It's only far from enough to satisfy the need. The center party has done something about this. In the revised national budget for 2017, we granted 500 million. extra kr to county councils to cover some of the maintenance seat suspension on the county roads. In our alternative budget for 2018, we have entered 1 billion in the budget of the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. kr for the same purpose. We know it's not enough, but it gives the county councils an opportunity to take back some of the aftermath on the county roads. I believe the only responsible thing will be to support one of the minority proposals in the case we are dealing with, where Stortinget asks the government to draw up a programme to reduce the maintenance run on the county roads. It's sad that a party like the Progress Party, which otherwise boasts of its road appropriations, stays in front of its ears and eyes in order not to admit that they let the county road network fall away. It does so both through too small appropriations to the county councils and now by not taking into account the need for a lift to prevent further degradation of the road network.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3111	It's interesting to listen to the debate. I've been wondering for a long time why the Center Party is promoting such a proposal now, but it's getting more and more up to me. When the Central Party had the Minister of Transport and put in office, the position at that time, the Central Party, the Workers' Party and SV, wrote in the position of the case here in Stortinget in May 2009 that: ‘the county authorities will be able to speed up the follow-up to the roads that will become highways from the new year 2010.’» It meant the Center Party, the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party, and I've started to wonder, why did they believe it? Indeed, during that period there were several civilised county municipalities in Norway, while the situation is now the opposite. This means that the Central Party and the Labour Party do not have faith in their own state politicians, because now there are more socialist-run county municipalities in Norway than it was at the time. That means that the Center Party and the Workers' Party especially have real faith in this government. They did not believe in their own, for all the infrastructure expired under the red-green government. I understand that inspiration has been drawn from this government, where the Progress Party has the Minister of Transport and together with the Right, Left and Christian People's Party has been given a boost on the county road network and the other national roads. But it's a little special that you now have a hurry and you think the positionings are so slow, that it goes so small that you want to solve it with a document 8 proposal here in the hall – quick fix. I understand very well why the infrastructure passed every year under that government at that time. It brings me to something else. For the Centre Party and the Workers Party, the national transport plan has been a wish list, even under its own government, also in opposition. When we want to see this together with NTP, it's just that the money should follow when we're going to do something. When the solution for the Central Party and the Workers' Party is really just to throw money at the county councils, without knowing if they're going along, it's better to vote in favour of the four bourgeois parties' proposals for a concrete, binding plan to map: what are the most dangerous roads, and what are the main export routes? That must be interesting even for the Center Party. With two lines under the answer: the Centre Party and the Workers' Party have more confidence in today's government than in themselves. When they suggested it, they thought that the citizens would solve it in the first few years before they even got more rapporteurs in the county municipalities. Now they have. They won't solve it. And every time – there are several examples – our politicians in the county municipalities promote proposals to increase maintenance, the same central party politicians, SV and the Workers' Party vote against. Therefore, vote in favour of the setting up of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3127	The representative of the Central Party, Mossleth, says we're under pressure. No, we're definitely not under pressure. We're calm, we're relaxed, and we have a very good conscience, because we've helped the county councils, we're going to continue to help the county councils, and we're going to come back with a separate split layer for county roads and export routes. To SV's representative Nävra: It is gratifying to hear that he actually boasts of the government that we have strengthened the appropriations for the county roads. That's what I think is nice to hear, especially the acknowledgment that came after, that unfortunately it's not enough. It warmed my heart to see a representative from SV standing here on the pulpit and saying that we need more money to go. It's incredibly nice and good and delicious to hear. The county roads live in the shadow of the major motorway projects, said Nävra. It's a criticism of the states, and it's the glory of today's government, who's been working hard to build the country with safe, good and safe highways. It kicked to Nye Veier that the representative Nävra came with, surprises me a little, because it's not long since Nävra wanted us to go and visit the project on Rv. 23 in his own home country, Busherud, just because he was worried about the progress there. Just as a curiosity: if New Roads had been responsible for Rv. 23, there's probably a chance that the project would be accelerated and realized faster than it might seem to be now. Then it is especially that Nävra is so negative to New Roads. I don't understand. To the representative Ivar Odnes, who refers to my post and hearing – that I obviously did not understand the importance of correcting the county roads and did not understand what was said at the hearing. I quote my old post, which I read instead, so Odnes will not go back and look at the record: "We all agree that the county roads are too bad." There is no doubt about it. We just disagree on who's responsible. Actually, it's very simple. The county is responsible for county roads, the state is responsible for state roads. It should be easy to understand. But a government maintenance program will still have the red-green ones. So what's the next one going to be? What's the next maintenance program they need? Should it be for schools? Should it be for culture? Is that supposed to be for cooking pits? How many such maintenance programmes should they have? There's an ideological distinction here that it's important to clarify: that the state thinks for one and takes responsibility for one, that the state thinks for one, is a bad idea and bad pedagogics, whether it's child education or county municipalities. It is important that each individual takes responsibility for his own life, and it is important that the county takes responsibility for its own ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3142	I just want to remind you that when we discuss aftermath, we are discussing a lack of effort over many, many years. It's a little strange that those who have run the longest in this country, the Workers' Party and the Center Party, are now criticizing today's government for the consequences of the policies they themselves conducted. If you had done the job properly, it would not have been a aftermath when this government took over. But just because one didn't do the job itself, we have a problem that needs to be solved. The representative of Ingarill Olsen complains that the county roads are now falling due while we maintain the highways. Then I just remembered again that the alternative was, as it was under the red-green government, that both highways and highways expired. It's not a preference. But it reflects an ability to prioritize road maintenance under today's bourgeois majority that one has not managed to get to some other places. It is also a bit strange to get criticism from the Workers' Party in this area. When we go into the alternative state budgets, we see that the Workers' Party has just cut the appropriations for the states on the road. It's true that the Workers' Party has given some priority to racial protection, but they've cut down more on the waiting compensation scheme, which means that one goes into negatives. The fact that a person is now making suggestions and later as if the counties are going to get more money once you have cut yourself does not make any sense. The representative from the Central Party, Nordlund, just illustrates why this problem has arisen, that it has become a fact. He can't see any things that can be down priorities in the counties to prioritize the roads. Well, it shows that the roads are the lowest priority when the Center Party discusses. Today's government and today's majority have launched a series of reforms to get more money back. We see that now with New Roads, we see that through what the Road Service does – we get more way for the crowns than if development had continued. We should have done that job in the counties, too. I know a lot of state politicians who would more than want to be with and give priority to the county roads, who look at opportunities to spend money in a different and better way without going beyond the weak and sick in society. Many of them are likely to be members of the same party as me, but I recommend everyone who thinks today it's not possible, actually to vote differently at the next county elections for getting politicians who see the possibility of prioritizing and not just saying that there's no way to make changes. It is also a bit strange to hear from someone who spoke in the same post that it is important that decisions are taken locally, but in this area they send you back and say that the State needs to make an action plan. There is nothing to prevent any state from making an action plan itself without the state going into overrule. Each state could make its own action plan today if they wanted to. One must not have state help. So if it's the way that those who know the pain of having their shoes on solve it, they should do it. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3157	Governments can sign up for a new post - it has an unlimited number of three-minute posts.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3162	Proposalers now feel that the situation is so serious that there is a need for a government programme to increase maintenance in cooperation with the counties. It will be like a state overarching of the county councils and their elected budget responsibilities. The aftermath on county roads is not a new phenomenon. It was well known when the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV carried out the administrative reform and transferred the county roads from the state to the county municipalities without any plan to increase the appropriations to reduce the delays. In the period 2014–2017, they had set off at just under 2.7 billion. kr to it in NTP. Fortunately, it's almost doubled under this government. It is good to see that the Central Party has woken up, after today's government has shown that it is possible to reduce the aftermath on the road, as has been done with the national road network. I have to say that I am basically in order for state politicians to have the freedom to prioritize their framework and have budgetary responsibilities. But when you see, like Gunnes' representative, that maintenance becomes a balancing item in county budget procedures, you can sometimes be somewhat in doubt. As my teammate Ingalill Olsen said: It is not the will of the county council, it is a priority. They give priority to the renewal and upgrading of the county roads. When you see how the position in my own home state, Finnmark, prioritised in 2016, when I myself stood in opposition in the county council, they gave priority to more than half of the funds that were allocated for upgrading and renewal of county roads, for purposes other than what they were assigned to. That is why I am pleased today that it seems to be a majority to seek out a reward scheme that is binding on the county councils, in the context of the roll-out of the NTP, and that we can identify the important economic pathways for priority. It will provide a predictable and long-term binding solution, both for the state and for the county.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3181	This, I think, is an almost unworthy debate. It's a description of reality that I don't know about. What might be even worse, is that our inhabitants don't even recognize themselves, and I think the Big One should take on: what are the challenges, and what are we doing with it? It's going to be a competition, a showdown, about who's been the best, and who's been the worst. Then it's like the previous NTP increased more than the NTP we're in now, and the red-greens have not suggested spending less money on the road than the current government is doing. Then there is something about the framework transfer and the proposal that has been promoted. It does not help to put the proposal into NTP and then take money from the county council within anything else; it is the total sum that is crucial for what you can do. There is no doubt that each state has its own action plan, and as I addressed in my first post, there were some challenges, including: the tunnel safety regulations, with breeds and floods, which make county municipalities need Stortinget to help them.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3190	The centre party alternative NTP or budget is not a wish list. The center party has its feet on the ground, even though we are betting on county roads and business in the districts. And that's not right, what the council says about the county councils. For example, I have to use Nordland as an example because that is what I know best: in 2018, Nordland wanted to spend 570 million. NOK on the county roads, and the county has spent more money on county roads than when the state was responsible. They've been good road owners. So now I think we have to look forward, and especially after the Oslo Economics report, which shows that it is socio-economically profitable to take this as quickly as possible. In Northern Ireland, we export fish for 33 billion dollars. kr, so we need good roads. It was also said that the county councils have such good advice and so much money. That's not the case for us, as the county has to take a In addition, the net performance rate of the county is 3.1 pst. and it is under the recommendation for county municipalities. It is necessary to have room for action to invest for the future. It is said that our proposal is a state override. No, it's not. We have always been quite clear that it is the county municipality that should give priority, but that we should have a spice layer, a county road package, that can take it back. It is fully possible that the county councils may nevertheless give priority to this. A reward scheme can actually be a greater degree of overmanagement, because then it is the state that premises for what is needed to participate in an economic action package. So I don't think that's exactly right, what the council said about the tunnel safety regulations and the grant there. That can't be quite right at least.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3203	It was actually Mr. Johnsen's posts that made me take the floor. But that was his first post I'm going to answer, because I unfortunately stuck out on his second post, which was apparently a tiger against me at certain points. I am pleased that the Progress Party does not have a majority alone and that the representative Johnsen is not Prime Minister. I imagine a pretty cruel picture of Norway – a city and district development that had been pretty similar to the American dream, maybe – a society where it is built around the car, around the car and around the giant shopping malls. The freedom granted by the car is at least applauded by large parts of the Advance Party. It is the car that is placed in the centre, with priority for motorways with at least four fields and a speed limit of at least 110 km/h – perhaps any free speed? What had been left to the county roads or to the districts, I'd like to ask the representative Johnsen about. They're kind of against tolls, but they're voting for this in the hall. It's probably because of government participation, it's the other parties in the government's fault. I am uncertain whether the Council of State of the Progress Party really believes that the bombs should go away, but whether the promoted Progress Party vision should be taken into account. Then I say uff and uff – for collective solutions, for district roads, including the county roads, for climate action and for urban development in line with modern attitudes around the world. I believe that the defenders of the districts and county roads would wake up to a really dark blue day by a clean party rule. And not only that – goodbye to Paris! I would also like to announce that we will support the majority voting of the committee subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3214	I actually agree with the representative Nävra; I also have no need to replace today's prime minister with the representative Johnsen. I just want to remind you a little bit about the history of this. When the Senterpartiet was in government in 2010, they carried out an administrative reform. This administrative reform meant that large parts of the road network, about 17 000 km, were transferred to the county municipalities, and the county municipalities were given responsibility. At the time, many of us were critical because it was done without any obligating plan for how to reduce the maintenance set-up. Now that the Central Party is in opposition and we have a government consisting of the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left, it is timely to ask the Government to instruct the Government to draw up a national plan for the settlement of its maintenance seat. I find such a kind of policy something inconsistent. On the one hand, there is a desire to strengthen the county councils, to provide them with new tasks, as was done in 2010, without any funds. However, in the opposition and with another government, it is timely to ask the government to set up a national programme to reduce maintenance activities. I have greater confidence in the county councils. In our proposal, it means that we give the county councils confidence in establishing an obligating plan to reduce their own maintenance set-up in their county, in their region. At the same time, there must be a mutual commitment, and we do not disagree that this is a major challenge and an important task that we have to solve jointly, both state and state. That is why we believe that a co-financing scheme, a reward scheme, is a good way to go, because it mutually obliges the county and state to raise this issue and contribute to solving it. That is why we believe that our proposal is simply a better proposal than what has been promoted by the minority – because it is mutually committed, because it respects the county council's responsibilities for the county roads, and because it will stimulate a faster reduction in maintenance maintenance. That is why we are also asking the Council of State and the government to investigate the proposal, so that we can take it with us in the consideration of the next national transport plan. In the meantime, we have to make sure that we follow up on the commitments we have in this national transport plan, which says we're going to spend 15.6 billion. NOK over the next 12 years in addition to the ordinary framework grant to county councils, and that we will spend 12 billion. kr on breed protection. So it's not like there's nothing happening here, here it's happening quite a lot, but it can be further reinforced by the reward scheme that we've proposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3226	Let me just follow up on what the committee chairman said. The rejection of the proposal does not mean that the government or the majority are opposed to taking action on the county roads. On the contrary, we've already done that for four and a half years, and it's going to do one more. The point is that the proposal of the opposition is not and strengthens it in relation to what the government would do. So someone has pointed out that this is a funny debate. We agree on the need to bet on roads; that's not what you are for or against. The point is that today's majority has been much better at doing it than those who think they have other solutions. That's why there's no reason to change the rate, either when you see it historically, or when you look it up against the budgets you have. If one were to bring together the draft budgets of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, a reduction in the road effort would have just been achieved, not an increase. And one would have a huge increase in car charges, not to finance roads, but to finance other things. That's why one should work on the line that we have. When I chose to take the floor, it was because the representative from SV once again goes up and cultivates myths and prejudices instead of dealing with the world as it is, and the political opponents you have. It testifies to very poor faith in one's own policies when one rather makes fables about others' policies. Let me just remind you about the following in terms of district bets: when SV and the Central Party crashed, there was more investment money, more money for road betting, in the central Oslo area than in the South, in the West and in Central Norway. Under today's government, it's the opposite. Under today's government, the West is receiving the most investment money from the Vegvesen this year. North Norway gets the second most. The impression that a person is trying to give is the opposite. It doesn't help bluffing when the fact is the opposite, and then we should deal with this rather than trying to swear the government. The appropriations for trains, the investment on the railway, are significantly higher now than when SV ran. About 10 billion. kr we use more on the railway in 2018 than when SV had its last budget, in 2013. The allocation of collective investment in the largest cities through the reward scheme is more than double — yes, it is about tripled. Again, the myths that SV is trying to create are simply wrong. The bet on bicycle paths has doubled, the bet on county roads has also increased sharply, and where SV filled cities with diesel cars, today's majority of roads are filled with zero-emission cars. Once again, the objectives of the Paris Agreement are coming closer to today's government, not to remove them. In addition, there is a greater bet on green shipping and even green aviation, compared to when SV crashed. There is no reason why neither districts nor environmental protectioners should want SV back in government when one sees what today’s majority delivers.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3237	This is not a funny debate. It is an unworthy debate. It does not sound as if the majority take over that they are responsible for the entire road network. We who sit here are national politicians, and the Tor André Johnsen of the Progress Party says it outright: We are responsible for the highways, the county councils are responsible for their roads. It is only a pity that the county councils and state politicians are not sitting on the state budget, that they do not give money to themselves. It's the national politicians who do. The state policies and the state roads depend on the appropriations they receive. I think that the underlying is the contempt for state politicians who are obvious in this debate. It's sad to observe. It is unworthy of representatives of the Transport Committee, who are responsible for the nation of Norway, including the county roads. The Red-Greens have had a plan to upgrade the highways, and state politicians have the same with their roads. It's money that's missing, it's not the will that's missing. It is easy to see that there is a need to change the course, that there is a need to improve the distribution of funds. Differences are increasing in this area as in other areas of society.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3246	The representative Tor André Johnsen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3251	It may not be surprising that SV does not trust Johnsen as Prime Minister, but I want to thank him for the thought. Just that they came up with the idea, I thought I was a little fascinating. But I have to say I fully agree with SV and Right – I am very pleased with today’s Prime Minister and have no thoughts, dreams or visions of replacing the capable Prime Minister we have. In the case of SV and all the claims that were made here, and also from Ingarill Olsen and the Workers' Party now, I can't answer everything. But I spent 16 years in the county and had a very good cooperation with all my colleagues there. I did not despise my colleagues or myself, but I think they are a little wrong. With regard to the Paris Agreement, for example, which is one of the themes on which the representative Nävra was involved, I would like to remind you that we had CO 2 emissions from the car of approx. 82 g/km last year – it's 3 g/km less than the climate agreement said we would have by 2020. It was in 2017 – three years before the time. Only as a curiosity did our social-democratic neighbour Sweden, which is red, have 121 g/km of emissions last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3263	The representative Siv Mossleth has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3268	I wonder how long the councils and government parties, who really like to pretend to be very forward-looking, should turn around, ignore the last five years and point to the previous government. I understand that our proposal No. 1 does not get a majority. This shall be pushed forward in time. But it would have been great if the other parties could have voted for the Workers' Party, the Center Party and SV's proposal No. 2 and 3, namely to extend the compensation resulting from the tunnel regulations and to have compensation for exceptional events on the county road network.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3275	I take the floor now, to the indignation of the representative, Mr Olsen. She thought it was sad and unworthy that the members of the committee could stand and hold on as they did here. The sad and unworthy thing was what Ingarill Olsen's own party did in 2009, with effect from January 2010. The representative of Ingalill Olsen says here that this big business is responsible for the whole country and all the ways. Yes, absolutely right! Then you might wonder how sad the decision you made in 2009 was. Did you not take responsibility for the whole country when you gave away all the county roads – without money, without any obligating plan, without a penny, and where it was poorly set? The rest of the country's infrastructure was lost every day. Think how sad it was! I don't think it's sad at all. This government, this majority, has strengthened the infrastructure. On every meter of road – on both national and county roads – along the coast, on ports and in aviation, things happen. There's something happening with the railways, with the public transport, with urban growth agreements, with urban environment agreements – more money for cities, more money for everything, really. You should be happy about that – not sad. What is sad is what Ingarill Olsen's Labour Party did in 2009. That's the medicine you now taste. This majority provides a better, more targeted and concrete solution, which does something about the county roads, rather than spending money on other things, as the Workers' Party does in the counties.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3286	The representative Arne Nävra has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3291	I can't keep up with this circus about the previous government and the current government all the time. I actually think most people are unable to listen to this. I just want to remind the Council of State that there is a difference between the government and the Progress Party, and there was also a slight difference between the red-green government and SV. We must be so honest. That's it. That's why I didn't pull out the government, but the Progress Party in my post. But two words I think everyone should take with me as a little gift, and that's "truth" and "priority". There's a lot of people in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3298	There is no doubt that everyone in this room has been running on state roads that have been categorized, classified and placed in a competition that NRK launched a couple of weeks ago: Norway's worst road. It's not exactly nice for us as transport politicians to see the pictures we see from a distance around the country. It is a little strange when the local representative continues to repeat this with the transfer from national roads to state roads made in 2010–after a decision in the Stortinget, and with the red-green government. Not enough resources were put in to ensure that the national roads were properly maintained. But there is no reason why today's government and the plurality here in the hall still ignores the great aftermath that is on state roads. The party added an additional billion dollars in its 2018 budget proposal in addition to the government and the plural, just to prioritize and take back some of the maintenance work on the county roads. It's strange to hear this whining about our proposal to make sure that we're getting back on the road, when the majority actually now recognize the challenge and come up with a proposal that's kind of a reward scheme. There has been competition between the representatives of the blue parties to blame the red-green government – with a government council claiming that we are measuring the situation. Then I expect that the black measurement also applies to the Freight Car Association, the Association of Machine Workers, all counties, the Road Traffic Information Council and the KS. The centre party will facilitate business and construction throughout the country. This county road map could have been the start of a shift to upgrade the important county road network around our country. It is good that the majority sees the need for a lift; it is only a pity that the lift can come in the next national transport plan at the earliest opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3309	The representative of Ingarill Olsen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3315	Morten Stordalen from the Progress Party had a long outline of how much more of everything has become in transport. Yes, there are increased appropriations for road and rail. The Stordalen brought the port, but it's actually not true, there's nothing increased, either on the contrary. But Stordalen forgot one thing: there has become considerably more tolls too, voted for, among other things. by the Party of Advancement. And as far as I know, it's historically high, what's demanded by tolls. It's become a lot more of everything, and I expect that the Progress Party is satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3324	I think the last article illustrated the level of the debate. So here we get criticism that the tolls have increased, from a party that is itself opposed to cutting tolls. The working party has refused to grant money for toll cuts. Then it is a little strange that they complain about the tolls that exist. Today's government has proposed toll cuts that Stortinget has stopped, but also many toll cuts that Stortinget has supported. That's why there's been less tolls now than the Workers' Party itself has. I remind you that drivers under the Workers' Party paid more to the State than they got back through the road. Now there's more to it than what the drivers pay to the state. That's why we're very pleased with that development. That's the one. The second is, when I hear the discussion here, you try to give the impression that someone doesn't want to bet on the road, while the opposition wants it. What we're pointing out is on the contrary, history has shown that today's majority have the ability to prioritize. Then it actually doesn't make sense to convert the course into a policy that has historically given less emphasis. That's why we're maintaining the line that the majority of today has. It's not against the intentions of better highways, it's to point out that the counties have a better economy now than when the red-green led, and greater opportunities to prioritize county roads. But we have to make sure that we have state politicians who also use that opportunity and don't say as the representative of the Central Party Nordlund, that there is nothing you can prioritize away. Ergo loses the county roads with the central party policy. There should then be a few other state politicians, and there is a chance of that in future elections. We have not pointed out that a black painter in the discussion about the need for maintenance. What we're pointing out is that a black painter gives the impression that nothing is happening. So when the appropriations for maintenance on highways have doubled in the last four and a half years and one gives the impression that it hasn't happened, then it's black paint. When KS says that road cover has improved in the last four years, and one gives the impression that the opposite has happened, then there is black paint. But the need is still great. The representative Nävra called for honesty. I totally agree. Then stop bluffing about the policies of the Advance Party. I'm going to admit that if the Progress Party had managed alone, we would spend even more money on the road, we would spend even more money on the railways – for our party, it seems that some of the financial assets that we currently place abroad should have been invested in capital in Norway. Then we could build up more railways and more roads faster, better and even cheaper. The problem is that the opposition is totally opposed to that policy. In all opposition proposals for government budgets, both the Central Party, the SVs and the Workers' Party, one proposes to reduce the use of oil money in Norway. We are proposing to increase the use of oil money in Norway, while the Labour Party believes that we are using hundreds of billions of oil crowns too much. It's a little strange to say that you should spend more on the road when you want to save yourself abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3341	This debate can be characterised by many different words, but the end of it, when we are going to vote in the evening, is going to be fantastic, because now we hear that there may be almost a majority of the two proposals that have come from the majority of the committee. So you want to vote in a subsidiary way for this, and then it cannot be completely hopeless, at least, what is proposed by the majority of the committee. I have spoken nicely about the reward scheme in the past, and I would like to repeat it. Where's what we've been trying it before with success? Yes, in public transport. It was Minister of Transport Torild Skogsholm who was the reward mother, to put it that way, because this was introduced while she was sitting, and it stimulated the need to improve public transport in the county municipalities. And it's helped. There has been a fantastic increase in the use of public transport in the last 15 years. So I can mention another example, which looks a little bit like the reward scheme, and that's the climate scheme, for which the Left worked a lot. That's because we had to take the big challenge in terms of climate. Municipalities and municipalities were asked to seek funding from the State by contributing directly to climate change areas. It's been very popular. It is very good measures that have been implemented for this money. Now let's try a reward scheme for county roads. Because it is clear that we must have greater accessibility and that we must reduce traffic accidents on these roads. Then there's one way to do it, and I hope the consensus that might show up during the vote tonight, leads us together to really try to do a good job for the county roads, so that they can actually get a much better constitution than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3352	It is not that we in the Workers' Party complain about the tolls when we point out that the toll share has increased. We point it out because it is a minister sitting at the rudder belonging to a party that is opposed to tolls. I didn't intend to extend this debate any more, but we have a state council that uses its three minutes to the limit to show that we have had a bad policy, while the government has a good policy. We know what the minister thinks about this, and I think it's the abuse of Storting's pulpit to roll like he's done. I do not know whether ‘ralibers’ are a parliamentary expression – but that is the way it is. The reason why we vote in favour of the majority's proposal in the Labour Party is that it is the second best. When we don't get marzipan cake, we can take chocolate cake instead. That's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3359	Now the president wanted to say be so good! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3364	It's probably not the last one – and at least not the first one – among leaders who ask people to eat cake when they're really asking for bread. I think it is important to stress that the toll percentage has not increased – the toll percentage has actually fallen. When we took over in 2013, the toll percentage in new road projects was over 40 pst. It had increased steadily and staggered from the Workers’ Party – and the other government parties – took over in 2005. More and more of the investments made in the road network came from tolls. The toll ratio went up, up, up – eight years in a stretch. Now the toll percentage goes down. With the budgets available for 2018, the toll share will have fallen below 30 pst. in the investments we're making now. It's a sign that we have another government, a government that is lifting road traffic with increased appropriations, not with increased tolls. This happens at the same time as other car-related charges are relatively flat – in fact, they go down. This again means that the drivers are no longer a dairy cow. There is a balance between what the drivers pay to the government, and what they use for road purposes — actually in their favour for the second time in two years, but the opposite of what has been the case before. When the Workers' Party is going to discuss tolls, I now understand that it's not about its own struggle to reduce them, it's mostly about trying to create dissatisfaction. And when some have said that this has been a funny debate, this is the most funny situation of all, where a party uses the pulpit not to promote its own positions, not to say that they disagree with the positions of others, but only to acknowledge that a counterparty has not gained an impact on its positions, which one is opposed to. I think that's a ruby add-on. I can at least say that is unparliamentary, as opposed to "balancing". What's most important here – after all – is this house runs national roads and European roads. We have a division of responsibilities. It's the counties that own the highways, even though the Workers' Party doesn't want to realize it right now. It is a responsibility that we should give to the state politicians the task of living up to, by giving priority to the budgets they have. I would have accepted the criticism as relevant if we had cut the appropriations for the states over time, if the deficits had increased, if the decay of our highways and European roads had gone up, but for all of these parameters it is the opposite. It's going in the right direction: the decline in the state's roads is going down, the county's economy is going up. It gives our state politicians room for action to do that job. And the special thing here is that KS has sent letters that show that the decay on the roads is less now than in 2013, even though the opposition doesn't give the impression.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3375	The President would point out that the attempts to use dialect to use unparliamentary expressions are fictitious, but that's not possible. The representative of Morten Stordalen has spoken twice earlier and gets the word for a brief remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3382	It might seem from the opposition's point of view that the Progress Party has not seen that the highways have expired. Then I can just calm down the hall that yes, we've seen that, and we saw that in 2009 and warned against it. In particular, the Right Party and the Advance Party warned in Stortinget at the time of the situation by giving away these roads to the states. With regard to Ingarill Olsen and the relation to tolls, I can say that it's just to vote for the proposals that come to the Stortinget. The Labour Party has voted against them repeatedly and calls for a reduction. There has been a decrease in the proportion. The fact that there have been several toll stations is not so strange, because there is so much more road being built crazy than before – ergo there are several stations. The proposal from the majority is more predictable and well framed, so that a good job is actually done and one does not make an urgent examination through a document 8 proposal here in Stortinget. In fact, it deserves the county councils and the country that we are responsible and serious here on the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3391	The representative Nävra is asking for honesty. It should, of course, be addressed to the representative of Langholm Hansen. The toll proportion has not risen. The toll share, as the minister was in the house, has fallen from 40 p.m. for less than 30 pst. for 2018, but investments have increased. We take responsibility for the entire road network. As a result, national roads have increased significantly under this government. The appropriations for county roads have also increased significantly during this government. The representative Nävra is asking for honesty. It should perhaps be addressed to the opposition. We all agree that the maintenance maintenance run is large. There is no money left to get rid of the whole delay. But luckily, less money is missing than when the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party themselves crashed. For the four-year period 2014-2017, the government of the day has granted approximately 4.3 billion. kr to renew and upgrade the county roads. It's significantly more than about 2.7 billion. kr the red-green basis of its NTP for 2014-2023, i.e. eight years. Like me, the county council is probably very happy that we got a new government in 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3398	As rapporteur, I would like to thank you for the debate. Here, there is a clear ideological distinction between position and opposition, and the case is well-lit. I am pleased that there is a joint committee that finally supports the proposal from the Committee for a majority, that we have a conciliation mechanism to be able to take back some of the delays on the county roads. But we once again stress that the responsibility for state roads is still the responsibility of state politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3403	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3419	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3428	I thank the Committee on Cooperation in this matter. As the rapporteur, I have had a lot of good talk with the committee members – mostly with the opposition, I have to admit. The committee agreed to consult on this matter, which I am very pleased with. There were several useful views. The background to the proposals presented here today and debated in the Chamber is a representative proposal by Kristoffer Robin Haug from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The representative proposal, Document 8:126 S for 2017-2018, has a serious thematic nature, i.e. a less harmful environment in urban areas. It is commonly known that local air and noise pollution in Norwegian cities represents a significant health problem. The entire Committee acknowledges this and stresses the importance of taking effective policy measures to reduce air pollution. But there are different perceptions about what is required of measures, who is going to implement them, and perhaps also how much one is willing to pay for them. Government Parties stress that government authorities have a responsibility to secure a toolbox for municipalities so that they can implement measures against air pollution, but that it is the municipalities that are responsible for complying with the provisions of the pollution regulation. SV, as a result of the Workers’ Party and the Centre’s comments, pointed out the seriousness of the situation by referring to the 2016 Public Health Institute’s report, which concluded that only in Oslo every year there are 185 people who die prematurely as a result of air pollution. The size has often taken decisions aimed at reducing pollutant emissions in general and in urban environments in particular – just think of the zero growth target for urban traffic. It was a forward-looking and good decision – that all growth in urban passenger traffic should take place through public transport, bicycles and corridors. The big question, of course, is how to achieve this ambitious goal and how good instruments politicians dare to use. Many cities have been good and have taken considerable action, with different packages and cooperation solutions around urban environment agreements or urban growth agreements, which has been a success factor in the largest cities. Unfortunately, more urban areas are still above the limit values, and environmental authorities report that annual average concentrations of nitrogen oxides in both Bergen and Oslo are above the national targets, according to the Environment Directorate’s website. SV agrees that contributions from both the State and the municipality are required to reduce air pollution and, as the proposer, believes that new measures by the State are absolutely necessary to ensure a sufficient improvement of the situation in some of the most vulnerable areas. Much of the emissions that are difficult to deal with, which are very harmful to health, come from exhaust and particulate matter from road traffic. It is not strange that the highest levels of particulate matter are recorded along the most trafficked roads. In its revised action plan on better air quality in Oslo 2018-2020, the municipality of Oslo writes that, although there has been a decrease in pollution levels since measures such as heavy-duty tyres, dust suppression and environmental limits were implemented in the mid-2000s, it is still not enough to reach health authorities’ recommendations. As mentioned above, urban growth agreements and state rewards have been a decisive factor in the positive urban development of our major cities, not only because the grips of more public transport and walking and cycling routes, the more pleasant urban environment, etc. can be taken because of tolls and state transfers, but simply because the process itself for cities and surrounding countries — there are often more municipalities — involves getting down together and thinking, planning and acting together. Here you could almost say that the path is as important as the goal itself. In a letter to the Committee, the Council of State writes that negotiations on urban growth agreements with all nine urban areas that are involved in urban environmental agreements are scheduled for the current year, and the mandate for these negotiations is to be negotiated in the spring. That's good. Of course, SV wants more medium-sized cities and large cities to be included in the urban growth agreement, and we set out a starting point for this in the alternative budget. It would have been an important tool to keep an eye on air quality and its adverse effects – in a completely different and more accurate way so far – on the adoption of NILU’s proposal for an urban observatory. That's what we're gonna stress. I want to take up the SV's proposal, and then I will come back to the details in a later article.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3458	The representative Arne Nävra has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3463	Thank you to the Greens for a good representative proposal. Local air and noise pollution in Norwegian cities represents a significant health problem. Road traffic causes external costs to society in terms of disadvantages and health damage. It not only harms health, but also reduces the quality of life. A number of national and international studies show that the population of European urban areas is heavily plagued by air pollution. It was also the background for the red-green government to establish comprehensive urban environmental agreements – all population growth should be taken with collective, bicycle and gangways, and cities should be developed. Fortunately, the theme is air and noise pollution, which involves more organisations. We saw that, not least on the response and participation we received during the hearing on this matter. The representative proposal is good and focuses on a serious area. We have no doubt that the state needs to increase its contribution to achieving local targets, and not least contribute to increasing knowledge of the impact of local air and noise pollution, for example. Oslo has major ambitions for its city and has far more ambitious objectives than the zero growth target in its plans and actions. The Workers’ Party considers that the consultation version of the railway sector’s action programme is not consistent with the adopted NTP in terms of railway development as part of the collective offer in and around urban areas. This is especially true for Oslo, where InterCity is proposed to be exposed for several years, but it is also true for our other cities. Here we must follow up, and efforts must be increased. It is also unfortunate that we no longer have a national, up-to-date bike strategy. It was recorded in the consultation round. The previous national cycle strategy was used as a guide to regional and municipal strategies, and it would not least be an advantage of a cross-sectoral plan that takes different levels of government. Then I would like to turn to the proposals that were put forward that we were not on in committee. As far as the proposals from SV are concerned, the House will support the proposals No. 1 and 2, in at least 50 pst. State funding of runway solution in Lower Romerike and of new signalling and securing facilities for the Oslo T-Bahn. In the National Transport Plan, the Workers' Party has proposed that the State contribute up to 70 pst. the costs of large collective investment. We will come back to that in the case of Oslopackak 3 step 2, which is now with the committee. We have also said that the state must take a greater share of the operation of public transport. We do not want to support the proposal No. 3-6. It is not because it is bad proposals – on the contrary, good proposals – but we believe that it is part of the local negotiations that must find their solution locally. It is then wrong for us that the Storting should add such leadership. We will support the proposals No. 7–9 and 11, which relate to investigations and measurements of noise and air quality and local fixing of peak tyre charges. Proposal No. 10, on the creation of a city observatory in Oslo: we think this is a good idea. Research needs to be supported in this field. However, the specific measure is not established, and we believe that it must be included in the budgetary negotiations. There have been some loose proposals from the Greens/Greens/EFA. We will support the proposals No. 12, 13, 16 and 17 – and consequently not the proposals Nos. 14 and 15.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3486	I would like to thank the MDG for putting an important theme on the agenda. Local air and noise pollution in Norwegian cities represents a significant health problem. Especially well known are the effects of high air pollution, which can trigger and exacerbate diseases, primarily in the respiratory tract and cardiovascular system. Short-term exposure to air pollution causes mainly deterioration of existing diseases, while long-term exposure can also contribute to disease development. The problem is in several of the major urban areas, but the problems are greatest in Bergen and Oslo. The 2016 report of the Swedish Institute of Public Health estimates that only 185 people die from air pollution in Oslo every year. The proposal of the proposer may be grouped into three main elements: increased commitment to public transport, cycling and walking use of the public purchasing power to promote the increased use of zero and low-emission vehicles in urban transport of goods; greater focus on the issue through research, increased focus on air pollution in the planning of new projects and increased efforts to reduce dust on state roads; It is important to point out that much is already done to reduce air pollution. Public transport has been given increased frameworks and the largest projects are given a State contribution of 50 pst. A number of measures have been taken by municipalities to control the volume of traffic during periods when air pollution is particularly high. In addition, there is the question of local fixing of peak tyre charges in the course of the investigation. A reward scheme for local cycling is also in place. Urban environment and urban growth agreements develop good tools to coordinate land use with the use of public transport, bicycles and corridors as important elements. Obligatory land use plans have been developed in several urban areas which also facilitate this. Public transport offers for bus and boat transport are common. By means of tenders, the State, State and local authorities may make demands on the environmental impact of the choice of technology. This is perhaps the best example of the certainty of the use of public purchasing power. Not least in Oslo and Akershus, the investment in zero and low-emission solutions has been staggering in recent years, and through Router AS there is a basis for green public transport. Other cities have followed in the same direction. I do not know whether the SV and the Greens dare think the idea, but the fact that several major road projects are being put into the tunnel has a positive effect on noise and dust pollution in the big cities. Together with increased accessibility for buses by building separate bus routes, it is one of the main elements of projects such as the E18 West Corridor through the Bærum and the Manglerud Tunnel in Oslo. This will have a positive effect on local pollution. The issue raised by the representative publisher is important. It is therefore not difficult to adhere to the intentions of the proposal. However, it is impossible to decide on the proposals within the framework of a Document 8. There are, in part, large costs associated with several of the proposals. An example is a general tariff reduction of 20 pst., which represents an increased cost of 1.7 billion. kr per year. Many of the proposals therefore fall within the scope of the consideration of the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3513	I would first like to thank the proposer for addressing an important theme and the case manager for a good job. The center party is on the same line as the proposer pointed out how to improve air quality – not just in Oslo, but in all of our cities. The less harmful urban environment is about more than just the transport sector, but it is in the sector we have the biggest challenges. When we gradually get more slip-free running gear and one reduces the use of cars inside the city centres, a believe one would have come along well to improve air quality. But the reality in our view is that there are still challenges to air quality in several of our cities. The size has taken several decisions aimed at reducing impure emissions in general and in the urban environment in particular. We have a zero vision that all the growth in passenger traffic is going to happen before public transport, bicycles and corridors. The winter that has been has shown that we have a challenge in making sure to keep the pavement, walking and cycling tracks accessible so that this transition to walking and cycling can actually take place in both summer and winter. The winter may still come every year, and a lot of sand is needed to make the walking and cycling roads safe, which has helped to increase air pollution, so that it is sometimes alarmingly high. The center party believes that there has been a positive development in recent years when it comes to reducing air pollution. However, if we are to be closed by contributing to better air quality in all our cities, this must lie in the plan, where there is also mandatory cooperation between municipalities, county councils and state. We now have urban growth agreements in nine urban areas, and air quality is an important element of the agreements. The Central Party strongly believes that both state and local authorities must contribute to the reduction of air pollution, and notes that the proposers believe that new measures by the State are absolutely necessary to ensure adequate improvement of the situation in some of the most exposed areas. In Oslo, the municipality of its revised action plan on better air quality in Oslo 2018-2020, it is shown that the decline in the level of pollution following the introduction of measures such as heavy-duty tyres, dust suppression and environmental limits in the mid-2000s is not enough to reach the recommendations of the health authorities. The centre party also records that our big cities have an ever-increasing population. The less harmful urban environment is therefore important in the development, planning and organisation of our urban areas. The Central Party believes that the promotion of better air quality in our cities must be long-term and well anchored in plans that are in line with both local, regional and national. Therefore, the Centre Party does not support the SV's proposal in this regard, but believes that these are good measures, which should be included in both the planning and the budget for further management of good urban living and living conditions. For the same reason, we are not going to support the loose proposals that are likely to be made later by the representative of Stoknes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3530	Air pollution in both Norway and other countries is a major problem. It causes premature death and reduces the quality of life for many. It inhibits mobility to vulnerable groups when air pollution levels are high. No one wants a everyday life where children with asthma have to stay inside kindergartens because of a lot of air pollution. Noise and light pollution are also a major nuisance. The proposal under discussion can be read as being written mainly for Oslo. Clearly, the problem is great in Oslo, but also in medium-sized and small cities, such as Trondheim, as Mo i Rana – we must not forget that it applies throughout the country. The left is concerned that all cities should comply with national and EU requirements on noise, air pollution and greenhouse gas emissions. For this reason, the Left is constantly working for increased appropriations for public transport, cyclists and pedestrians in both the country's municipalities, counties, on the Stortinget and in government. A little over to Oslo again: I see that the Greens have a proposal – the original proposal, which is promoted again by SV – and I hope that there will be a proposal on the environment field at E6 in Groruddalen. This is done. The measure shows the opposite effect of what is desirable, namely more air pollution. The left also wants to do something to improve the air in the Groruddalen, but then we have to look at instruments that work. We are pleased that the State Road Service is working on a system analysis that can clarify the trajectory for a new highway dialogue – excuse me, national road diagonal, I don't think the roads are talking – between rv. 4 Trondheim Road and Rv. 163 East Aker road. For many years the left has been concerned with reducing the burden of noise and dust on the inhabitants along the Trondheim road. The left has worked to put in place its own heavy transport plan in Groruddalen. We believe that a solution for the residents along the Trondheim road must be put in place as soon as possible, and look with great optimism to the end of the Road Administration's analysis. So a little over to top decks: The volume of particles in the air as a result of car traffic depends heavily on the ability of the car to tear down or tear up the road surface. Spike tyres produce between 20 and 40 times the number of particles compared to non-rigid tyres, and it is therefore important to keep the proportion of cars without heavy tyres high, especially in densely built areas. Minor use of peak tyres in densely built areas has a significant effect on the reduction of the coarser particles. The introduction of peak tyre charges in several cities has been effective by the use of multiple non-rigid tyres. That is why I am pleased that the Directorate-General for Road Safety is drafting a consultation document to amend the legislation on heavy-duty tyres so that it can now be sent to the hearing, that we might get a simplification and the cities can handle this more themselves. Dust binding and washing of roads are clearly a good measure. In Trondheim, magnesium chloride has been tried, washed, and it has given a very good improvement in air quality along the distances where it used to be the most bad. It is important that air quality is on the agenda and that we are constantly having discussions on this issue. This is not a problem that can be put into the drawer. That is why it is good that the Green Party raises the issue, even if the measures they are proposing are either budgetary or are already in the process.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3551	A new study from the World Health Organization, WHO, found that 90 pst. the population of the world breathes in contaminated air. On a global scale, about seven million people die every year after breathing air particles such as these. may lead to stroke, heart disease, lung cancer and pneumonia. Air pollution is a threat to all of us, including those who live in Norwegian cities. If I were to point out one place in our country where we would clearly have the most left to tackle the problem of air pollution and noise, I think the Groruddalen in Oslo would come up high on the list. Here we have some of the country's most pleasant neighborhoods caught in a network of three of Norway's most trafficked roads, which go parallel through the valley. Fortunately, there are a lot of good solutions, and if we succeed in the Grorud valley, we can show that we can succeed in giving people a safe everyday life with a health-promoting community in all parts of the country. That is why the Greens have tabled a proposal for a representative with a number of proposals that can benefit both those who live in the Grorud valley and also proposals to improve the health of everyone in the country who lives in cities. Lower prices of public transport are just one of several measures that allow more people to travel more environmentally, health and climate friendly. Well, it's so important to give people a better offer with more frequent departures, like for example. do in Oslo municipality. In 2017, Oslo received 1000 more bus and tram take-offs, and Oslo also invests heavily in infrastructure that will make public transport more accessible for even more years to come. The rapid phasing-in of electric buses is also among investments. This escalation should have been done many years ago, and in all these years many people living near these major roads have been subjected to an unacceptable burden of both noise and air pollution. This particularly affects the weakest of us — those who cannot afford to buy a dwelling far away from the noisy roads. It's urgent to save the health of the many who are exposed. In Oslo, therefore, a broad coalition of both the Right Party, the Labour Party, the Green Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have agreed on a number of measures to distort competition from private cars to public transport. It includes, inter alia: multiple toll stations with higher tolls. But there are many more ways of facilitating more climate, environmental and health-friendly travel. We in the Greens want more positive measures that make everyday life easier for those who have poor advice. By making public transport cheaper, we also make it easier for those of us who are in need of economics and do not make everyday life go up, while at the same time we get air that we can breathe into the future as well. That is why, among other things: proposes to reduce the price of public transport by 20 pst. We in the Greens do not want to spend billions of dollars building new roads that stimulate even more emissions and more noise. Rather, we want to spend the money on the maintenance of the roads we have, on electrifying public transport, on traffic security measures, and not least on cheaper, better and more frequent collective services. Finally, I would like to thank the SVs Arne Nävra very much for the rapporteur's work and for a very good cooperation in this matter. With that, I will address the Greens' proposals to the Environment Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3570	The representative Per Stoknes has addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3576	Thematics being addressed is important. It concerns our everyday lives, and it's something that a frequent debater in society, naturally. Being able to travel around and know that air quality is good, that you don't have noise and light pollution that keeps you awake or bothers you, is part of what gives us quality of life in everyday life. In our national transport plan presented last year, this was one of the important things that was discussed: how to develop a society that has good mobility, good transport solutions, but also meets both the needs of big cities and local communities for good living. Some of the projects carried out are specific to the local environment, not necessarily because they provide new roads that do not exist today, but because they move traffic away from local areas. One of the projects we would like to refer to, which has been carried out in the past, is the Opera Tunnel, which is moving a lot of traffic from where people live in Oslo, and down below the ground – actually one of the best measures we have. It should reflect that building new roads is also good environmental measures many times. The E18 West Corridor has been mentioned by several. It is also an environmental project in this way. It is about getting better collective solutions and better walking and cycling solutions, but also about moving traffic away from the local areas where people live. Through different measures, we will be able to see a gradual further development in which emissions decline, local environments improve, while at the same time making people's everyday lives simpler. We see it especially in vehicle technology, and in the case of cars in Norway, we have come a long way with zero-emission cars. Also for vans, buses and trucks, the State has instruments that make it attractive to buy that type of vehicle. In the budgetary agreement with the Left and the Christian People's Party – before the Left joined the government – we had arrangements in place, for example. aid schemes for the wreckage of vans when purchasing new electric cars. Just a few weeks ago, I got to drive one of the first last cars in Norway, and we have probably all been inside at least one electric bus over time. So we're not filling cities with diesel cars, we're filling roads with zero-emission cars. It is an important act in itself, although one can always discuss the environmental accounts over the lifetime cycle of the same vehicle. We have, through collective action, strengthened the ability of cities to invest more for a better offer, and we see that Oslo is one of the cities that uses it. The aid scheme through the reward scheme has been quadrupled during the current government. That gives Oslo an economic space to carry out the promises that we now see. In addition, we have developed not only urban environmental agreements, but urban growth agreements, which allow an investment to take place in the light of the land policy that a local one should pursue. On the railway there is a strong commitment where the appropriations for the construction of new railways and the maintenance of existing ones have increased. We're using over 3 billion. kr annually to buy train services, so that more people can travel by train at a lower price, and we buy new trainsets. On the roadside, I have already mentioned E18 as an urban project, which is also about the local environment. Making sure that a celebration of our roads, that they are well maintained to reduce both vehicle noise and particle swirling, is an important part of this job. Strengthening the work of walking and cycling routes, both from the State’s hand and from the local authorities’ hand, is an important part. The appropriations have doubled over the last four years in the case of cycling routes, among others. through good budgetary cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left. Also in shipping, it is important that we look at the local environment. Many ports are centrally located where many people live and travel. This is why the green technology effort, especially through the Ministry of Industry, is important, where we also develop charging infrastructure, shore electricity, and contribute to the development of battery technology precisely to eliminate emissions from where people live. I could also mention a number of instruments that the municipalities have and can use, both of positive and more restrictive instruments. For example, when the Environmental Party is calling for: the possibility of reducing tariffs on public transport by 20 pst., there is something the county and the municipality could already have done. One does not have to make proposals in the Storting about it. But it's a budgetary question if you want more money from the state to it. There I can only remind you that the left in its time was given an advantage so that we would reduce the monthly tickets on the railway at long distances. The measures are many. Many of them we are doing, but some of them I disagree with, because they are more restrictive than useful. It is part of the important political debate to find good solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3595	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3600	I would like to hear the views of the Council of State on the proposal of NILU, the Norwegian Institute of Air Research, i.e. the recommendations of them on a city observatory. This proposal came after the Council of State gave its letter, and it was originally not part of the Greens' proposals. It's obvious that NILU has a good point. Similar measuring stations are available on Svalbard – it's probably in New Ålesund, on the Zeppelin Mountain. It has an international reputation. I guess we have one in Agder, but I don't think anyone in big cities or cities is currently established in Norway at all. This would be the first. It would be very interesting to get in our largest city -- an observatory that has sensors out there that measure parameters that we can't measure today. This would be very important research, also to take action. Is this a proposal that the Council of State will take with it and, if necessary, promote in connection with the work of the State budget – or at least further elaborated?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3607	This is probably the responsibility of the Minister for Climate and Environment rather than of the undersigned. I don't want to sign it out either positively or negatively. But we've had a lot of meetings where, among other things, NILU has been present to discuss air pollution criteria and how to measure them. I have also visited several technology environments, including: in Trondheim, where one believes that it is possible to place far more measuring stations with a slightly simpler technology, but with a crazy much lower cost, which can give us a better picture of both the spread of air pollution and the like. Today, a person likes to have relatively large and expensive meters, and then one has to assume how this spreads out. The more knowledge we get about this, the more information we can give to those who travel in cities, so that they can avoid red zones if they occur, and rather can move a quarter further away, where there is a green zone, it will give everyone an opportunity to travel in a simpler way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3612	I thank you for the answer from the Council of State. If this is not entirely within the remit of this Council of States, it might mean that he can talk about this with the person responsible, namely Elvesuen, and take this proposal with him, because I think that NILU has a very good point here. It's a strong trade union institution. It would have been very interesting to hear the views of the Council of State, how he has assessed the content of it and the intention of it – I expect the Council of State has read it – and whether he could somehow face it within the government. So I kind of came up with that a little bit.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3619	The President would point out that since this is not within the constitutional competence of the Council of State, the Council of State itself will have to consider whether to answer this question of follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3624	As I mentioned – or at least tried to mention – I think it is important that if we manage to capture more information, which means that we have more qualitative data for both decisions that we politicians are going to make, and which allows one to contribute information to those who move out in everyday life, that is an advantage. Exactly how to do this, if you're going to do more than what you're doing today, if we're going to let NILU do it within its own limits, within its own economic framework, or in another way, we have to get back to it. I have discussed this with colleagues in the past, but not with Elvesuen, and something that has inspired me is that in Trondheim I met a company that has developed technology to measure cheaper, but not as detailed as NILU's meters. The guy who was behind this was an asthmatic, and he said that if this could give him information about which routes he should go to work on the days the air is at worst, it would increase his quality of life. If we can contribute that kind of information, it would be useful.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3631	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3638	As rapporteur of the case, I note that there is a great deal of agreement in the Chamber on the description of the seriousness of this proposal on the severity of air pollution. I also record that everyone who has spoken agrees with the intention behind the proposals. SV believes that state funding for large collective projects – this I did not have time to mention instead – is absolutely essential to achieve the zero growth target to which a total increase has joined. We point out in our note that it is unclear whether the runway solution for Lower Romerike and the signalling and securing system for the T-Bahn in Oslo is secured 50 pst. State funding. We would like to stress that both projects are quite crucial for future collective provision in the Oslo region. It is an important step to succeed in transferring a greater share of transport in Oslo on transport modes that limit just noise and air pollution. Of course, the timing of NTP’s targets for intercity deployment in the East is also tragic in this context. As all the representatives have seen, SV has proposed many individual decisions, especially for the Oslo area. Some of this problem would of course have been in the Oslopacket 3 area, which several representatives have mentioned, but we still chose to include a number of proposals specifically concerning urban air and pollution in the capital, since the proposer also added to it. The opposition has much the same view of what is required of measures to improve air quality in cities, but it is a bit strange that neither government party could be more involved in more comments – if not more – where the seriousness is described. It's perhaps most disappointing that it doesn't seem to be a majority in the Chamber for our proposal for a city observatory in Oslo, which I also took up in the line change with the council. A little bit about our vote: we support our own proposals, of course, but we will also support all the Greens' proposals, but with one exception. For the purposes of points (a), (b), (c), (c), (d) and (d) 15, where they propose a flat reduction of 20 pst. at collective rates throughout the country. SV has about the same view and has proposed it in its alternative state budget in the case of NSB, over which the State – in a way – is left. But we don't think it's right to drag this down on the county councils, which have to decide for themselves. Rather, we want to increase the framework of the county councils, which we actually do. We are also in favour of a national youth card — we have been doing so for several years — because we think it is more important to favour young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3651	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3667	With knowledge, the country must be further built. Today, when I promote this interpellation on behalf of the Workers' Party, it is on a secure basis. This is a question that the party has been working on for a long time and thoroughly. In 2015, our central government set up a selection of students, scientific staff and representatives from the labour and business sectors. This selection has developed a revised strategy for higher education and research and has provided input to the current batch programme. At the heart of the offensive policy we are developing is the issue that I am addressing in principle today. The long-term plan for research and higher education is a revision. One of the most important recommendations of the OECD country review is that more needs to be done to develop excellent research environments and internationally leading universities. We in the Workers' Party have high ambitions for the knowledge nation of Norway because research is a prerequisite for development and growth. The further development of world-class scientific excellence is also, in our opinion, one of the most important tasks in higher education and research. Norway is not going to be the best in everything, but we are going to take advantage of the assumptions we have. We must be a leading driver of knowledge development and have world-leading competence in areas where we have special advantages, comparative advantages that are important to us, for Norway's competitiveness and attractiveness are, of course, influenced by how good our environments of competence are. A high-cost country that Norway can compete in quality and productivity. In selected areas, we're going to have professional environments that claim to be in top international order. The business we're going to live on in the future is going to grow out of industries where we're strong today. Since 1930, the value creation in Norway outside the petroleum sector has doubled in real terms. It is precisely research and higher education that, together with a welfare society that participates as much as possible and a wise management of natural resources, are the factors that have provided the basis for this growth. We need tools that provide the very best researchers with extra good opportunities to create new knowledge and contribute to new understanding and breakthroughs on the research front. This means that we need to develop tools that are more clearly ambitious and that facilitate excellence. Research-driven institutions need to be guaranteed good basic funding and work closely with other actors, such as the Department, the Research Council and the EU. It must be a goal for Norway that we have world-leading research environments that contribute to new understanding and competitiveness, that have the capacity to meet our societal challenges, and that Norwegian professional environments are able to attract and develop the best talents. And it must be a goal that the best scientists and students have world-class construction and infrastructure. Here, on the proposal of the Workers' Party, a single Grand Committee has now agreed that this needs to be concrete and incorporated into the new long-term plan in concrete and binding terms. I assume that the government will follow up. As we have programmed in the Workers' Party, we need a list of priorities for construction and infrastructure to facilitate high-quality research at universities and colleges. We in Norway are not the only ones looking for tools to boost innovation and renew business. Most countries regard this as an important basis for their national income. A competitive research system depends on research environments that claim to be at the top of the world, as well as on stable, good research institutions that provide research adapted to society and business. We don't just need star scientists, we need them too. It's here about the peaks, which can be of inspiration and develop and spread new knowledge and new knowledge, because it's so that good research in almost every case comes out of high-quality research environments. Therefore, Norway needs a clearer policy to promote the very best environments, a policy that strengthens the key conditions for creating world-leading research. I believe that the rolling of the long-term plan is a good and proper opportunity to be ambitious on behalf of Norwegian research. That's why I challenge the Council of State on this. Although excellent research environments were among the main initiatives in the first long-term research and higher education plan of the United Kingdom, Norway does not have enough to claim to be at the top of the world. We need a national plan on how to further develop our good environments. We simply lack a system that facilitates stable top-level research. I believe in principle that we always have to assess whether the funding and organisation of research is good enough to achieve the objectives we as a nation have set ourselves. We should refer to how other countries rig their top research, but at the same time be aware of our peculiarity. There are no identical parallels to the Norwegian system, with our distinction between a well-funded university and higher education sector and an institutional sector that is mainly financed by mission. That doesn't mean that we've necessarily chosen the model that benefits us best forever. We should always consult with the sector and the parties. But at the end of the seventh, this is an important part of the current government's responsibility, those who govern the country, and who are about to make proposals for a new plan. The time perspective is one of the frameworks to be considered. We in the Workers' Party see a clear need to think more about research policy than we have done before in Norway. We need arrangements that go beyond ten years. It is important for me to stress that we have many skilled researchers in Norway. Some of them are world leaders. We in the Workers' Party are well pleased with the centres for excellent research, but we state that top-level research and the further development of important competences require more long-term funding. Building up and maintaining the position as a world leader seems to require long-termity, and then even ten years will not be enough. This has been pointed out by various research environments, and I have also registered that the director of the Research Council agrees. He has stated that what is in the interpellation, we all agree, that it is important to bet on top research, and that there is a long-term interest in this initiative. One of the challenges will be to find funding models that can continue the best of the existing centres for excellent research. Another would be to decide whether to bet within universities, outside or both. The Labour Party does not have the final solutions on its own, but we are very excited about what the responsible State Council will propose as the main measures to take care of and further develop excellent research at the global summit. I have recorded that there has been a discussion in the sector and in various media after New Year's, that it is still going on, and that there are naturally different views about what should be done. This is an important debate, and with this interpellation it is lifted into the Storting. We do that because the debate on how best to secure the future of top research is important to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3695	Let me first thank the representative Nina Sandberg for raising this question and this topic, because it is a topic that can be discussed very well in the Stortinget, both now and when the long-term plan is presented in the autumn. We have relatively few top research environments in Norway. Promoting more world-leading professional environments is an important priority in the long-term plan for research and higher education. But we already have several professional environments that claim well internationally, and the arrow points up. And it's not that we lack tools to develop top research. I believe that the positive development is the result of the fact that both the government, the Research Council, the institutions and the trade unions have been good at prioritizing, concentrating and thinking in the long term. For the nature of research is long-term. Establishing top-level environments will usually require much more than ten years, which is the time frame for the Centres for Excellent Research, SFF, and I am thinking in particular of the choices and priorities that the host institution has to make before and after the centre period, for example. research recruitment, equipment, construction, infrastructure and other strategic investments. During the centre period, the host institution makes significant contributions. The SFF allocation from the Research Council is only approx. 20 pst. of the total budget of the centres. The rest of the funds have come from the host institutions and other sources of funding, such as: other programmes of the Research Council or the EU Framework Programme for Research and Innovation. In order for a research environment to stay in the top of the world for a longer period of time, it requires large and long-term commitments from the host institution. Any new instrument, such as: a SFF+ scheme or equivalent will not change the fact that much will be required from the host institution. Therefore, it must also be primarily the responsibility of the institutions to take care of these excellent environments as they do. I believe that the institutions today are conscious of that responsibility, and that they are well equipped for that task. Almost 70 pst. research at universities and higher education institutions is financed from the basic budgets of the institutions, which are quite high compared to the vast majority of other countries. Activities of the Research Council and the EU shall complement and stimulate the quality work of the institutions. The Swedish professor Mats Benner, who, on behalf of the Norwegian Research Council, has assessed the quality of Norwegian research as equally good, said to the journal Research Policy in 2014: ‘But a successful central policy is not enough; in it you see only the absolute peaks. The call for more SFFs and more FRIPRO drugs is rather a symptom of the problems, not the solution to them. [[...]] change must come from within.» Institutions need to have good systems to promote and prioritise quality, and they need to think about quality in everything they do. We must have a culture of quality both in research and in higher education. It is a demanding task to manage universities and colleges, and there are many considerations to be taken care of. I believe, however, that we have to trust that the institutions are able to carry out long-term quality research, because something else is almost like giving up. Or to put it another way: if it's right, as some have claimed, that SFF environments are collapsing and crumbling immediately, the SFF support disappears, we need a harder tilt than a new tool in the Research Council. But fortunately, this is not the case, because researchers from most of the closed centres continue to publish world-class research, but often with a slight change in the organisation of the research groups and with funding from other schemes. However, there is nothing to suggest that the environment is crumbling. On the contrary, I would say that my impression is that there is a lot of positive about the institutions. We're really building a culture of quality. All major universities have programmes to develop world-leading research and provide the best environments with good working conditions. Government support for recruitment of top researchers, 70 million. kr per year from 2015, broken down according to some specific quality criteria, has contributed to this development, and the acceptance to give more priority and support if the best have increased. It is also important that universities and colleges have clear profiles and give priority to some areas rather than others, so that funding is not too fragmented. It was also an important premise in and for structural reform. Efforts at younger researchers and at study quality are also important for future quality, and in the quality notification the government stimulates the development of its own offerings to the most talented and motivated students, e.g. use of award programmes and multi-disciplinary research lines. Several of the SFFs run research schools, and approx. 800 PhD and post-doc. candidates are associated with the 21 centres established. The long-term plan for research and higher education is itself an important tool for ensuring long-term sustainability. There have been long lines of research policy for a long time, but it has been reinforced and clarified through the long-term plan. Now, we are revising that long-term plan, and the goal of developing more excellent professional environments will stand firm. There will be room at the institutions to set high ambitions, and we will contribute to raising several Norwegian professional environments into the global summit. In the process of revising the long-term plan, we need to assess whether incentives and instruments should be developed further, but we need to do so in such a way that responsibility is not removed from universities. We also need to balance the need for long-termity with the need to escape to new environments. Professional environments, institutions, tools and governments together need to give quality priority to tougher plans for the future. I would like to welcome this debate here today, but I also remind you that the long-term plan is being submitted to the harvest, and although I will not now say what is going to lie there, I do not think anyone will be surprised that this is also going to be a theme of the revised long-term plan when it is presented to the harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3728	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I get a little worried when I hear that it's a rather non-binding answer, and I think I'm witnessing a little offensive attitude in a question that's so important to Norway. I concluded in the opening article that research is fundamental for the future, for growth and well-being, and not least for adaptability. Top research is going to play, or have to play, a key role in this. This is precisely why excellent research has a fully legitimate place among the main objectives of the long-term plan, and it is therefore appropriate that the main priority of a responsible State Council should be to identify the main steps to achieve this main objective. I believe that this is too important a shortcoming in the achievement of the objectives of Norwegian research and innovation policies to overlook and not remedy. There is a lot of good work done at the institutions, but let me take what the Council of State says, seriously. She places responsibility on the institutions, on their priorities, on the culture of the institutions. In a meeting that I had with the Research Council today, just lack of institutional space was raised as a challenge in achieving the objective of excellent research. Then I find it alarming that the combined benefits of resource use in the sector are as modest as it is. The external look at our research system, the OECD country report, to which I referred, shows that research is good, but not excellent, and that innovation in the Norwegian economy is moderate and uneven. That's not how we want it to go forward. It is in itself a little alarming that the Council of State seems to settle down on this situation and then shift responsibility downwards on the institutions. It really gets worse when we know that Norway is going to face major migration challenges in the near future, where we are going to move from a vulnerable and petroleum-based economy to a more diversified, sustainable economy and will have to convert Norway into major societal challenges related to climate, ageing, digitisation, etc. The OECD concludes with – in June 2017 – that Norwegian research policy is not well enough equipped to handle these changes. Therefore, I would like to ask the Council of State to explain what she really thinks about how the government will facilitate top research. Will the government ensure stable funding and opportunities for further development?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3739	I totally disagree with the representative when she gives the impression that the government has settled down, because if there is one thing the government has not done, it is to have settled down. This is something the government has worked hard on in the last four years, and we also see results from. World-leading professional environments are one of the long-term priorities of the long-term plan that has been the largest budget growth in the first long-term planning period, and we are talking about a total of 411 million. kr. Then the escalation plans are not included there. The SFFs were previously unable to apply again after the end of the 10-year period, without making any changes to the project. Now it's not like that anymore. Now the project can apply again for a new SFF, and that way you can get even more long-term in this. Now we are at the end of the long-term plan that has been in force until now. It has been fulfilled by the government, and in some areas it is also overfilled. Now we're working on the revision. That revision is presented in the autumn, together with the state budget, and this government is concerned that we are going to have even more environments in the world summit. We are working on that, and that is why I am pleased that it has become public today that Norway reaches for the first time the 2-percent target in Horizon 2020. This means that our researchers, our good researchers, are more active in the EU's research arena than they have been in the past. Those who are also in these programs contribute a lot to our top layer. The SFFs we have are also very successful in Europe, and they are doing well in the European Research Council. I believe that this government has followed up the plan that is available. Now we're working on a revision. The representative is very much pushing ahead with the debate that comes to the harvest. I think it is good that we also have a debate now, because it raises important issues that we can really discuss all the way, but it is clear that it is until the harvest government submits its revised plan, and that is when the discussion will come too fully. So the government hasn't been behind it in the last four years. I think Stortinget can expect an offensively revised long-term plan when it comes to the harvest. As for world-leading environments, it's something we have to work with continuously, but it's the host institutions that have to facilitate it, that have to work it out, and that have to have the primary responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3752	I agree that we should facilitate strong and sustainable top-level research environments, and it takes a long time to build world-class research environments. We're going to stimulate the research institutions to build internationally leading trade unions, but we have efforts that contribute to it. The centres of excellence, so-called SFFs, are one of our most important activities in building top-level research environments. In the SFF scheme, good environments can receive support for 10+10 years – the last 10 years after a new round of competition. It can provide a very good basis for establishing good environments and give our very best researchers the opportunity to pursue problems over a long period of time, recruit young talents and attract internationally leading researchers. On the other hand, I am reluctant to support the sustainable financing of individual environments. Because although ten years in some respects are short-lived in research, there may be a great deal of 20 years in terms of what are high-current research areas – and especially in times of transition, to which the representative Sandberg is constantly referring. Since we cannot expect increased budgets for research every year, permanent funding for several established centres could be at the expense of establishing new research environments. Through competition for research funds, we ensure good dynamism in the system, and we ensure that new, promising environments can escape. So, of course, I can agree to discuss the duration of these center assignments. However, it should be time-limited and subject to competition. On the other hand, permanent centres or bets must be the institution's strategic assessment and responsibility. Research environments that are of such good quality that they are awarded SFF status for 10 years, or perhaps even 20 years, should be part of the institution's strategic commitment. However, it must be the right and duty of the Board to determine which subjects and fields of activity are to be included in the institution's strategy and efforts at all times. It shall not be the responsibility of the national competition venue for research to finance ever-increasingly new permanent centres which are part of a UH institution.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3763	In order to have a competitive research system, we need research environments that claim to be in the absolute world top, as well as good universities and research institutes that provide research adapted to society and business. Norway currently has a number of strong environments, but the Labour Party believes that we need a clearer policy to promote the very best research environments. Creating world-leading top-level research environments requires that we provide long-term, growth potential and freedom of action. But society must also demand delivery of the environment. Although ten-year grants to centres for excellent research, SFFs, are rusty in the Norwegian research system, ten years are limited in research. It creates uncertainty, vacillations that should be concentrated on achieving research innovations, and makes it difficult to plan for the long term. The Workers' Party's Higher Education and Research Forum was in place to create a new tool for creating sustainable top-level research environments with basic research. I myself am an elderly political spokesperson in the Workers' Party. One of the really big challenges we face in the care of the elderly is dementia. It's a mystery we haven't solved, and we need to draw a lot of attention to the next few years. I will therefore read a quote from the researchers Moser and Stenseth in the Evening Post: ‘With the introduction of the Centres for Excellent Research in 2002, Norway took a major step forward to ensure such long-term sustainability. [[SSF]] Until then, researchers had had to invest in grants for 3-4 years. However, the SSF scheme provides funding for 10 years. But after 10 years of SFF's long-term security, today's policy is over. A new SFF can be applied for, but the focus of research needs to be changed — and long-term unemployment is broken. You just change to change instead of concentrate on what you've become good at." Just that statement I think is scary, especially given that we are not in the goal of solving the dementia. Now the council has been sitting for almost four months, and I expect that she has had plenty of time to get into the work on the long-term plan that is being submitted to the harvest. I therefore wonder what the Council of State will actually do to further develop our best environments, and to create more permanent top-level research environments.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3781	I would like to conclude by thanking you for the debate. It is an important debate. The size has an explicit objective of promoting world-leading research, and then we should be able to expect that the government has strategies to achieve it. For Norway, as I said, is not just about having these ambitions. The countries we want to compare with, are also looking to develop excellent research environments. What I'm pointing out is not that the institutions don't do good work, or that we necessarily spend too little money. What I'm pointing out is that we haven't been able so far to claim ourselves well enough in the world summit despite the appropriations to which the Council of State refers. We do not achieve the overall goal of the long-term plan without clear strategies and willingness to follow up on action. Norway is still fortunately quiet. We are not in the same situation as many other countries in Europe, where research communities experience a tougher economic reality, which in turn leads to reduced appropriations and slows down the opportunities for excellent researchers. That is why we have a unique opportunity to both recruit and retain researchers who can contribute to our desire to strengthen top-level research in Norway. To be a small country, we have quite large financial muscles. We should take advantage of the advantages we have, and build up the barriers that exist to excellent research. We in the Labour Party are looking forward, and we cannot be satisfied with a government that allows research policy to follow the old path. We believe that the opportunities for top-level research are about knowledge-based, innovative policies in important areas, such as: recruitment procedures, infrastructure, institutional premises, working conditions of researchers, predictable career paths, etc. I am absolutely sure that Norway can become a better research nation, but then political management must know its role, take control where one can expect it, and actively contribute to our raising the world top. Therefore, it is a little ominous when the Council of State does not respond more clearly than she does when we in the Workers' Party address the problem of long-term financing. We notice that the Council of State answers quite generally, but she does not go into the problem. I would have liked more suggestions for action.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3794	Let me start by saying that I do not know myself quite again in the description that the Workers' Party comes with. Now I've only been the Council of State for four months, but I've been a big-time opposition representative for four years before that, and my opinion is completely the opposite. I feel that we have universities and colleges that are getting better all the way. We have research environments that stretch forward. But we can never be content with what we achieve in this sector, because the goal must always be to get even better. So I feel that this government has really facilitated excellent research environments, and that's something we'll continue to do. Let me just make some clarifications – first of all, this with ten-year-old SFFs. Before that, you could apply only for 10 years, and if you wanted to apply again, you had to do the project again and create a new project before you could apply for a new SFF. It's not like that anymore. Now you can get an SSF for 10 years, and if you want to keep going, you can apply with the same SFF again for 10 years. So it's both simpler and more long-term. So I want to make the Stortinget aware that in some cases, at least two of them, there has been specific support for the state budget to continue some research groups. This applies, inter alia, to: The mountain centre at UiB and the Moser group at NTNU. After the SFF went out, they have received a special support for it. I feel that our sector is busy delivering research at the top of the world. This is something that they stretch after every single day, and I'm both busy and happy that neither our universities nor our colleges, the Research Council or the research groups live in a bubble. It's all busy constantly improving, and that's why I'm also glad that when there's proposals for improvement, when there's something that doesn't work for these excellent researchers, the Research Council is in dialogue with and discuss with those who hold the research competence at the top of the world: what's needed, what's what we can do, how can we accommodate? And it's important that there's an evaluation, to see what you can get better at – and it happens out there. And finally, the government is now working on the revision of the long-term plan. Then it must appear quite obvious that we cannot present in this room, here and now, all the measures that we are now working to bring forward to the autumn. I think it is useful to discuss this now, but it is when the revised long-term plan is presented until the fall, the government will present the whole of its research policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3807	The debate on substance is closed. So 10 is going to be equal to 10.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3819	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3828	The Presidency had set the Storting to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3865	A total of 72 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Stefan Heggelund on behalf of the Right Party, the Party of Advancement, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party the proposals No 4-6, from Åsmund Aukrust on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 7 and 8, from Åsmund Aukrust on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Environment Party of the Greens the proposals No 9 – 11, from Åsmund Aukrust on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 12–34, from Åsmund Aukrust on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment proposal No 35, from Åsmund Aukrust on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Environment Party of the Greens proposal No 36, from Åsmund Aukrust on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 37-41, by Ole André Myrvold on behalf of the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment the proposals No 42 and 43, from Ole André Myrvold on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 44–57, by Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Greens proposal No 58, by Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 59–64, from Per Espen Stoknes on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA proposal No 65, by Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party the proposals No 66 to 69, from Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 70, by Ole André Myrvold on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 71, from Ole André Myrvold on behalf of the Centre Party proposal No 72, from Per Espen Stoknes, on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 71, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the use of the action space contained in EU legislation and provides for compensation reflecting Norway’s importance as a forest country with the characteristics of our forestry when negotiating joint implementation with the EU, and Norway actively exploits the regulatory action space when determining the CO 2 capture reference path.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3938	There is a vote on proposal No. 70, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for climate action in agriculture to be taken in such a way that food production in Norway can be increased and the objective of a wide variety of farms with small and large farms throughout the country is met.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3957	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 66–69, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 66 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a new Climate Change Communication and a new proposal for climate change settlement, with a national target for Norwegian emissions to be in 2030. The new climate communication and the proposal for a new climate settlement shall contain new measures and instruments that are likely to implement most of Norway’s climate commitments by 2030 through emissions cut in Norway.’» Proposal No. 67 sounds: ‘The government is asking for energy label A in all new public rental contracts, with an escalation plan from 2022 to 2025.’ Proposal No. 68 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to set up a national climate target to cut emissions in the transport sector in Norway by 60 pst. by 2030 compared to 2005 levels so that the emissions from the transport sector in 2030 are up to a maximum of 6 million tonnes of CO 2 equ.» Proposal No. 69 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to set up a national climate target to cut emissions in the transport sector in Norway by 50 pst. by 2030 compared to 2005 levels so that the emissions from the transport sector in 2030 are not more than 7,45 million tonnes of CO 2 equ.» Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e3997	There is a vote on proposal No. 65, from the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Environment Party of the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is requesting zero emissions from cruise ships, coastal routes and other ships used for tourist purposes in major tourist fjords from 2025.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e4016	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 59 and 62–64, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 59 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set a target for the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from Norwegian territory by at least 60 pst in 2020. Compared to 1990 levels, the ceiling will reach a maximum of 20,7 million tonnes in 2030.’» Proposal No. 62 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to increase VAT on meat products and reduce VAT on fruit and vegetables in future government budgets in order to make it easy and profitable for people to choose a climate-friendly diet.’ Proposal No. 63 sounds: ‘The Government is required to notify the Norwegian commitment under the Paris Agreement that Norway will contribute, from 2020 until 2025, to the promise of 100 billion worldwide. the dollar is paid annually in international climate finance by providing Norway with at least Norway’s share of this sum based on Norway’s share of GDP each year.’;» Proposal No. 64 sounds: ‘The government is requesting the notification of the introduction of an annual Norwegian climate percentage to climate action abroad as a contribution to the Paris Agreement as soon as possible.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e4049	There is a vote on proposal No. 61, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked by the Government of the State budget for 2019 to submit proposals for the liquidation of the tax advantages of the petroleum industry.’ The Socialist Left and Red have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e4068	There is a vote on proposal No. 60, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to set a target for Norway to be fossil-free by 2040.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e4085	There is a vote on proposal No. 58, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to base its climate policy on the need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in Norway by at least 50 pst. by 2030, and it is necessary to set a target for Norway to become free from fossil emissions by 2040.» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e4104	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 44–57, from the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 44 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the Government of the State budget for 2019 to submit a proposal for the cancellation of allowances from the European allowance market, corresponding to the additional cuts made in the ETS sector as a result of an active government policy.’ Proposal No. 45 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a proposal for a system of a charge on goods carried by car to reward the carriage of goods by road or keel, in line with the recommendations of the Good Strategy Selection Board.’ Proposal No. 46 sounds: ‘The government is requesting annual purchase fees for new passenger cars on the basis of a target of nine out of ten new cars sold in 2021 to be zero-emission cars.’ Proposal No. 47 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to gradually amend the CO 2 tax for the entire maritime sector and to propose the introduction of a CO 2 tax without a refund scheme for the fishing fleet, with the possibility for the industry to enter into an agreement on the model of the NO x fund in order to implement reductions in emissions. The payment is differentiated according to the size of the vessel and the smallest part of the fishing fleet is favoured by increasing the deduction of the fish.» Proposal No. 48 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Directorate-General for the Environment to modify the emission permit to Hammerfest LNG, replacing the gas power plant with power from the network, and to entrust Statnet with the task of strengthening the power infrastructure to Melkoya’. Proposal No. 49 sounds: ‘The Government requests the suspension of the 24th concession round and the allocation in predefined areas’.» Proposal No. 50 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Directorate-General for the Environment and the Oil Directorate to impose zero greenhouse gas emissions requirements for the supply of energy to all new oil installations, and to impose this as a condition in all ongoing concession rounds.’ Proposal No. 51 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a plan for the full or partial electrification of existing fields in order to achieve the climate targets by 2030 and 2050. The size asks the government to assess in particular the electrification of the southern North Sea and to include the possibilities to combine electrification with a marine wind demonstration park.» Proposal No. 52 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to phase in requirements for all supply ships to operate in Norwegian waters in order to receive shore-side electricity from 1 January 2020.’;» Proposal No. 53 sounds: ‘The Government is asking that the ban on fossil heating in greenhouses and in buildings where cereals are dried, applicable from 2020, be adopted during 2018 so that the industry can prepare the deployment.’ Proposal No. 54 sounds: ‘The Government requests the imposition of an order for CCS on all major industrial point emissions by 2030.’ Proposal No. 55 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a target to be set by the government to reduce meat consumption in Norway in order to contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, the reduction of natural disasters, better public health and better animal welfare.’ Proposal No. 56 sounds: ‘The government is asking that the negotiations on participation in the EU Climate Change Framework should ensure the highest possible level of ambition for the fight against anthropogenic climate change. The manner in which forests are included in the agreement on the climate framework must recognise the role of forests in order to replace fossil energy use and other emission-intensive raw materials and products, as well as the role of forests as carbon stocks. The size request that the negotiated agreement be submitted to Stortinget.’ Proposal No. 57 sounds: ‘The Government requests the termination of the readmission mechanism with effect from the 2019 government budget.’; Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e4199	There is a vote on proposal No. 43, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a strategy for long-term forest management with optimum climate impact. The strategy shall include instruments for the whole forest value chain and proposals for a future climate framework allowing for the full climate potential of the forest.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e4216	There is a vote on proposal No. 42, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the gradual phasing out of fossil energy use in passenger and van cars. The charging system is designed to provide approximately 100 pst. of new car sales in 2025 is based on zero-emission technology.’;» Red has announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e4236	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 37-41, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 37 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to stop the planning of a third runway on the Gardermoen’.» Proposal No. 38 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to introduce a ban on the operation of heavy oil in Norwegian territorial waters by 1 January 2020’.» Proposal No. 39 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for an international ban on the operation of heavy oil in the Arctic, equivalent to the ban on the operation of heavy oil in the Antarctic.’ Proposal No. 40 sounds: ‘During 2018, the government is asked to submit a proposal for a ban on the installation of new fossil thermal capacity that does not have CO 2 capture and storage in industry.’ Proposal No. 41 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to provide an investigation into how the public as a tenant may require at least energy class A in all new leases.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e4279	There is a vote on proposal No. 36, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the use of the offshore concession award for activities to be carried out with limited emissions and to give licensees responsibility for emissions in a larger part of the value chain.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e4294	There is a vote on proposal No. 35, from the Labour Party and the Environment Party of the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to draw up targeted action plans based on the weaknesses of the green competitiveness of Norwegian industry, to achieve zero emissions by 2050, and to ensure a large-scale migration process in Norway over the next decades.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e4309	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 12–34, from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The size calls on the government not to make use of the inter-country flexibility mechanism.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The size asks the government not to make use of the flexibility mechanism between the quota and non-quota sectors.’;» Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking that a Technical Climate Assessment Committee should have as its primary objective methodological solutions to allow for the numerical impact of different measures across all sectors of society and the use of instruments that could trigger the measures.’; Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that Norway does not make use of the possibility of transferring allowances between the quota and non-quota sectors.’;» Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government, before the dialogue on increased ambitions in 2018, to come to Stortinget with a case on Norway’s proposal for reinforced objectives – as a starting point for the process to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government asks that policy decisions to be taken should first be assessed by the Ministry of Climate and Environment in terms of climate impacts, as the economic impact of decisions today is assessed by the Ministry of Finance.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up national climate accounts in the context of the State budget reports and reports of the Climate Act. Here the government must specify and quantify how Norwegian emissions are to be reduced in all sectors during the relevant ageing period.» Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government is asked by the government to decide, through the regulation of the public procurement law, that tenders for all public transport shall be based on zero-emission or renewable fuels where technically possible. Where this is not possible, specific energy and emission requirements shall be imposed. The same conditions shall apply to collective services operated by the municipality under its own ownership.’;» Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The Government requests the initiation of hydrogen train tests on one of the un electrified routes where diesel trains are currently being run, for example the Raumaban or the Nordlandsbanen.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose changes to the one-off charge for vans, which introduces a full CO 2 component, and to present this in the State budget for 2019.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose changes to the one-off charge for heavy duty vehicles promoting energy efficiency and zero-emission technology and to present this in the 2019 government budget.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for zero emissions from cruise ships, coastal routes and other ships used for tourist purposes in important tourist fjords, such as: the world fjords, and the Trollfjord, from 2023." Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government is asking for all new farming facilities and operating vessels for these installations to be operated with zero-emission or renewable fuels by 2020 at the latest.’» Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government requests a change in the emission permits for non-quota industries so that fossil energy for heating purposes is phased out by the end of 2021.’ Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the adoption during 2018 of a ban on fossil gas heating for buildings in force from 2020, so that the industry can prepare the deployment.’ Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The Government requests the extension of the ban on fossil heating from 2020 to the ban on heating in temporary buildings and the adoption of the amendment during 2018, so that the industry can prepare the deployment.’ Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The Government requests the inclusion of indoor building heat during the construction phase, including concrete and façade drying, as part of the ban on fossil heating from 2020, and adopts this change during 2018, so that the industry can prepare the deployment.’;» Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘During 2018, the Government requests the notification of a ban on both fossil oil and gas in district heating plants from no later than 1 January 2020.’; Proposal No. 30 sounds: «The government is asked to amend the public procurement legislation in order to require zero-emission technology, where technically possible, in all construction projects that are published in public tenders. Where this is not possible, specific energy and emission requirements shall be imposed.’;» Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make appropriate proposals for a Norwegian regulatory framework for regular energy monitoring in larger businesses, in view of the need to trigger cost-effective energy efficiency measures.’ Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The government requests the extension of the marketing of sustainable biofuels, including second generation biofuels from wood and residual waste, to tax-free diesel.’;» Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to start work on establishing a programme for forest monitoring in Norway, which can improve knowledge of how climate change will affect the biological environment and economic potential of forests in the future.’ Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘The government is asked to return to Stortinget with a Norwegian escalating plan for Norway’s contribution to international climate finance under the Paris Agreement.’ Red has announced its support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e4445	There is a vote on proposal No. 11, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking in the negotiations with the EU to ensure that Norway can use the full potential of the forest in the green shift.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e4463	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide measures aiming at zero emissions from ships used for tourist purposes in its main tourist fjords, e.g. the 26 World Heritage fjords and the Trollfjords, from 2023." The Greens have announced their support for the proposal. Red has announced subsidiary aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e4482	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals to strengthen efforts to provide shore-side electricity for all ports by 2030 and to investigate interconnection obligations.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal. Red has announced subsidiary aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e4503	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7 and 8, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Greens' Environment Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to introduce requirements that all cruise ships, coastal vessels and other ships – irrespective of the year of construction – used for tourist purposes in vulnerable areas and important tourist fjords, such as: World Heritage fjords and Trollfjords shall comply with the environmental and emission requirements given in MARPOL Annex VI, Regulation 13.5 from 1 January 2021.» [[Tier III]] Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a case to investigate the environmental certification of construction through schemes such as BREEAM-NOR, in order to promote more climate-friendly material and energy use. Environmental certification must be required both for new buildings, for the rehabilitation of existing building stock and for the rental of premises, and included in public procurement regulations.» The Socialist Left and Red have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e4527	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a climate policy that balances the objectives of the Paris Agreement to reduce climate change emissions, and the assumption that this should not be at the expense of food production and the objective of food security and the fight against hunger.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e4546	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4 and 6 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to strengthen financing of the work of targeted advice on individual farms and refers to the Agriculture Climate Company SA, which is established to facilitate more climate-efficient Norwegian food production.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government requests that cruise ships, coastal vessels and other ships used for tourist purposes in vulnerable areas and important tourist fjords such as: the World Heritage fjords and the Trollfjord, with immediate effect cannot operate on heavy oil.» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e4570	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Right, from the Party of Advancement, from the Left, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for an international standard and to establish a strategy for shore-side electricity and charging current in the largest ports and cruise ports in Norway by 2025. This includes a common standard for climate and environmental requirements in Norwegian ports.’» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left have announced subsidiary aid. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e4594	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right, from the Party of Advancement, from the Left, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to present sectorial ambitions for cut greenhouse gas emissions in the non-quota sector.’;» The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left have announced subsidiary support for the proposal. The Greens and Reds have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e4615	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Right, from the Party of Advancement, from the Left, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the implementation of requirements and regulations for emissions from cruise ships and other maritime traffic in tourist fjords, as well as other appropriate instruments for the phasing-in of low and zero emission solutions in shipping by 2030, including the introduction of zero emission requirements from tourist ships and ferries in world heritage fjords as soon as technically feasible, and by 2026 at the latest.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal. The Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced subsidiary aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e4634	There is a vote on proposal No. 72, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. During the debate the proposal was amended and reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to investigate, as soon as possible, a national ban on the sale of helium balloons and to return to the Storting appropriately.’ The Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Red Party have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e4839	Only I-VI, XII-XVII, XX-XXVII and XXXI-XXXIII shall be counted. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e4853	The Committee shall then vote on the position of VII-XI, XVIII, XIX and XXVIII-XXX. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced support for the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e4881	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No 1, by Tore Storehaug on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Green Party proposal No 2, by Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Greens There is a vote on proposal No. 2, by the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to re-examine the issue of the establishment of sea landfill in Repparfjord, review the social benefits and balance them against environmental disadvantages.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e4907	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Green Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to re-examine the issue of the establishment of maritime landfill in Fördefjord on the basis of new information on social benefits, weighted against environmental pollution.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e4946	During the debate, Espen Barth Eide put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to vote against the proposal that Statoil change the name of Equinor at the Statoil General Assembly on 15 May 2018.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Committee had decided to do so by the Storting
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e4963	Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e4995	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No 4, from Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to withdraw GI-07/2017 Instructions on the interpretation of Section 32 of the Foreign Affairs Act – Transfer of asylum seekers to Greece under the Dublin III Regulation.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e5030	Alternatively, between the setting and the proposals No. 1-3, from the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to initiate a new agreement on the allocation of asylum seekers arrived in Greece and Italy.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘Because of the economic situation and the high number of refugees and untreated asylum applications in Greece, the Government continues to request a derogation from the Dublin Agreement in relation to Greece, so that no applicants are returned there.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to offer asylum treatment to asylum seekers who are scheduled to return to Greece.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e5063	The President will propose that the Minister for Development’s policy statement at the meeting of the European Parliament on 26 April 2018 be annexed to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e5076	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. That is the proposal No. 1-3, from Kirsti Leitrø on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: "The government is asking the government to develop an application to reduce the maintenance run on the county roads. The programme shall outline a follow-up plan for county road maintenance with proposals for funding models and organisation to enhance maintenance and post-sleep reduction on the county road network.’» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government requests the extension of compensation to cover the costs of the tunnel safety regulations until 2024.’» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government requests the establishment of a compensation system for exceptional events on the county road network.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e5107	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e5123	The Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced subsidiary support for the suspension. The Greens and Reds have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e5141	A total of 17 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1-11, from Arne Nävra on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 12-17, from Per Espen Stoknes on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA There is a vote on proposal No. 15. from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to present measures to reduce collective prices by 20 pst in proposals for the 2019 government budget. all over the country." Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e5167	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the government to enter into an agreement with the Municipality of Oslo for 50 pst. State contribution to the new tramline north of Sinsenkreuzet over Tonsenhagen to Linderud in Oslo as soon as the investigations from the State Road Administration and Router are available.’» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e5184	There is a vote on proposal No. 14, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests the implementation of a pilot project with downgrading of Rv. 4 in Oslo.’» The Socialist Left and Red have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e5201	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3, 4, 6 and 10, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the introduction of environmental fields at E6 in the Groruddalen.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure the implementation of short-term measures to mitigate traffic and noise. 4, including noise protection, permanent environmental limit and multiple transitions.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a requirement for low and zero emissions to supply goods to state establishments in Oslo, as in the procurement strategy of the Municipality of Oslo.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to start planning and to support the financial establishment of a city observatory in Oslo in cooperation with NILU.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e5235	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1, 2, 7–9 and 11, of the Socialist Left Party. Sales No. 1 sounds: «The size asks the government in new urban currency in 2018 to secure at least 50 pst. State funding of runway solution at Lower Romerike.’» Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The size asks the government in new urban currency in 2018 to secure at least 50 pst. State financing of new signalling and securing facilities for the Oslo T-Bahn.’» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to propose that municipalities be authorised by the Road Traffic Act to allow municipalities to set their own heavy-duty tyres.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to include an assessment of the impact on air quality, noise load and climate of all state road projects in urban areas.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking for increased research efforts on the health consequences of air, noise and light pollution.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals for a new investigation of limit values for air pollution, with a view to a reduction in 2020 in line with the recommendations of the Environment Directorate.’ The Labour Party and Red have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e5281	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 12, 13, 16 and 17, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 12 sounds: «The size asks the government in new urban currency in 2018 to secure at least 50 pst. State funding for cross-linking of the Groruddalen T-Bahn.’» Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to increase the government’s funding of large collective projects.’ Proposal No 16 reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to start negotiations on urban change for Oslo and Akershus and Trondheim as soon as possible.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asking for increased efforts to reduce dust on state roads.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e5324	We in SV have announced that we will vote against the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e5329	Then the Socialist Left Party has also announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e5341	In Case No. 10 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-05-03.ana.ud11e5396	So the things on today's map are done. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
