ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e91	Honourable co-representatives! On December 1, 2017, former depositor Åshild Hauan from Velfjord died in Nordland, 76 years old. She represented the Workers' Party and Nordland for three periods, from 1981 to 1993. During this time she was, among other things, member of the Social Committee, the Judicial Committee, the Consumer and Administrative Committee and the Transport Committee. Åshild Hauan grew up in the Helgeland of the 1940s and 1950s, in Velfjord, now part of Brønn Island Municipality. When she was young, she moved to Rana and worked for 20 years at the cooperative in the mining community Storforshei. In 1975 she was elected to the local government in Rana and in 1979 to the county council, before she became a staging representative two years later. As the first woman, in 1985 she was elected President of Odelsting, and in 1991 she was appointed as the first female county in Northern Ireland – a position she took in 1993 and had until her retirement 14 years later. That's for her equality commitment many will remember Åshild Hauan. She was part of the Gro Harlem Brundtland generation in the Workers' Party, which fought many of the victories we take for granted today. Great progress came not least at the end of the 1980s and early 1990s, when Åshild Hauan was the party's women's political leader. When she resigned from this job in 1992, she drew out children and young people as the most important thing she had contributed to: majority for increased maternity leave, large-scale child support? pediatric development, new school leisure schemes throughout the country and a? Fa? with the queue of untreated cases in child protection. These are political victories who have changed people's lives in Norway. Åshild Hauan held on to his commitment throughout his life and was among those who always supported and encouraged women who took leading positions both locally and nationally. Kassadama from the cooperative team at Storforshei never forgot where she came from, even though she dressed some of society's most prestigious positions over several decades. As a pensioner she engaged locally in the Red Cross and actively participated in membership meetings in the Bodø Workers' Party and in debates both on radio, in social media and in social teams. Åshild Hauan is remembered as a raw, warm and solid lady with deep commitment to justice and equivalency and with the ability to express the time she lived in. We bring peace to Åshild Hauan's memory.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e118	The representatives of Audun Lysbakken and Heidi Greni, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Central Party Group for the representative Siv Mossleth from 27 February until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. Varare representative Kari Anne Bøkestad Andreassen is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e146	Kari Anne Bøkestad Andreassen is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e157	The representative, Nicholas Wilkinson, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e162	On behalf of the big business representatives Karin Andersen, Petter Eide and myself, I would like to promote a representative proposal to stop care failure and abuse in the care of the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e168	The representative, Mr Reiten, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e173	On behalf of Olaug Bollestad and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on the review of the cross-border rise between smaller and larger measures in the Cultural Memory Act §§ 9 and 10.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e178	The representative of Arild Grande will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e183	On behalf of the representatives of Hadia Tajik, Lise Christoffersen, Eigil Knutsen, Lene Vågslid, Jan Bøhler, Rigmor Aasrud, Ruth Grung, Åsunn Lyngedal and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on the escalation plan for the labour-criminal centres.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e188	The representative of Marit Knutsdatter Strand will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e193	On behalf of the representatives of Marit Arnstad, Geir Pollestad, Jenny Klinge, Kjersti Toppe and myself, I would like to present a proposal for a representative to review the six-year reform aimed at setting up the school to better meet the needs of the youngest students.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e198	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The President will state that the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs has been consulted on a closed hearing during the Committee's term of office on Thursday 1 March, requesting that an adviser from each member's Board of Governors be present at the hearing in addition to the member of the Committee. The President proposes that such authorisation be granted. – Are there any objections to this? That does not seem to be the case, and the President's proposals have been adopted. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e220	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e234	SV is not in the presidency, so we have not had the opportunity to express our views in the setting. In previous years, SV has supported the salary increases to the Supreme Court, as the suspension has demonstrated that there have been recruitment problems and challenges in the Supreme Court. That's an argument that we've accepted and understood. This year, on the other hand, the wage increase is mainly based on what is in the position, namely that the wage trend of the Supreme Court judges in the last few years has been somewhat below the level of senior pay in the country. Then we're at the problem. In the Municipal and Administrative Committee, we are now discussing a proposal from the Swedish authorities to raise the level of management’s salaries in the state. There are 149 leaders in the state who serve more than the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister, and it is strange that with the highest-ranking positions in the country, they have to pay less than many permanent employees. This is a development that Storting has taken up many times. There are guidelines that tell you to have moderation, but there is little evidence in wage trends that this is happening in practice. That is why we have had to make a proposal asking us to investigate how we can put an end to this wage trend, because it is unreasonable for so many to earn more than the Prime Minister of the country. The country — in particular the country — is distinguished by having a highly skilled workforce. There are people with very high and long education who work in state activities, and we must assume that otherwise the level of pay should reflect some of the level of education and competence. The leaders we have in the state – and, of course, in society – are totally dependent on this competence to get the job done. Yes, they are partly dependent on people who are more competent than themselves and have a higher level of competence than themselves, and they must be managed. We must also take account of the fact that the level of wages and salaries is otherwise sustainable, both in the accounts of each unit or enterprise and in the social accounts. It's not sustainable if someone is to serve so incredibly much more than others. There will be a source of unrest internally in the systems because it is unfair, and in society otherwise increasing differences are almost like a poison. In all areas that are important to us, it is important that differences do not increase but, on the contrary, decrease. That's good for trust in society. It is important in all areas of society which are concerned with health, education and crime. I can also draw attention to OECD studies that show that if we have smaller differences in the country, productivity and social accounts will also go with many billions more in plus. In this context, because we believe that we have a growing problem with galloping leadership wage developments – and because the matter we are dealing with now is connected to it and the argument to increase wages also for Supreme Court is that they otherwise gallop and then they have to gallop here too, and we cannot accept that – we, SV, are going to vote against this proposal. We hope that the Storting will be involved in finding means that we can slow down the development that we are now in. It is not sustainable for government leadership wage developments. And it's not just about the payroll. It's also about other arrangements that people get with them, for example. if they do a job that is no longer wanted, it also seems that there is a reward waiting at the other end, while otherwise in the working life that loses the job, people have to thank the arrangements that we in this room adopt for ordinary people. Here it is developing a pay gap and a gap in how to treat people who have to stop their jobs – a huge gap between those in the public sector and those in other employment. SV wants to put a brake on this and get more justice and equality in the system.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e251	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e267	The Presidency shall present a unanimous opinion on a proposal from the Progress Party to ask the Presidency to set up a sample to assess the process and eligibility of the committees, selections and names to which the Storting appoints members. The vote will show that the Presidency is in agreement with the proposal. The debate on the appointment of members of the Nobel Committee which took place in the autumn clearly showed the need to clarify the premises for the appointments made by the Stortinge and the need to establish a common understanding of the criteria to be used for the appointments. The size selects members of different boards, councils and selections. Some of these choices are subject to legal or pre-worker qualification requirements. For other bodies, no guidance has been given on who can be chosen. A review proposed will allow an overall assessment of the Grand Duchy’s appointments and clarify their basis. The majority decided in December to ask the Presidency to determine whether there are other matters than being a representative or an alternate of the Storting, which should be taken into account in the assessment of who can be elected as members of the Nobel Committee. In particular, reference was made to the boundaries which should be made with regard to seniority in international organisations. The investigation shall be carried out during 2018. The Presidency will propose that this Decision be included in a broader mandate to the committee set up if the present draft representative is adopted here today. I refer to the remarks in the vote and recommend with the recommendation of this presidency.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e280	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e294	If there's something we can learn from history, it's that progress has always come into play. Two steps forward have been very often followed by one – and in some cases two – step back. The world today is marked by great contradictions. While more and more people are taking the step out of poverty — and the global economic indicators are pointing up again — there are also many trends in the wrong direction. The victories of democracy, freedom and human rights can no longer be taken for granted. Over 65 million people are fleeing from their homes. Climate change is becoming increasingly serious. The conditions for communication are challenged, and boundaries between true and false are erased. Power shifts. There's increased unforeseeability, even in our neighbourhoods. There is little doubt that major activisation and classical geopolitics are back. At the same time, there are also many points of light. More kids go to school, not least girls. Renewable energy production is growing rapidly. International cooperation has given us a global climate agreement and sustainability targets as a framework for global action against poverty. We are making great progress in the fight against the ISIL terrorist organisation. For the first time since the financial crisis, all the major economies of the world are now growing. In Europe, after many demanding years, optimism is on the way back. In other words, the world cannot be described in black or white. We have to see the shades, and we have to see the wider picture. Where we drew fairly straight lines towards a brighter future, today we often draw straight lines towards a deep abyss. Optimism and belief in the future were stronger in our part of the world just a few years ago. But we must always remember that history is still influenced by our political choices, and we make those choices ourselves. A responsible foreign policy means that we have to deal with the world as it is, with all its complexity and dilemmas. Only then can we take advantage of our space of action. Only then can we help set the agenda and shape developments in areas that are important to Norway and our interests. Government meets today's troubled world with security, responsibility and safe governance. Norway has a good starting point to meet demanding challenges, not least because of the tradition of the Storing Consensus on the long lines of foreign policy. We have a solid economy, a balanced distribution of economic goods, an inclusive political change of words and a high degree of openness and trust in society. These are absolutely indispensable resources in a world characterized by polarization, confrontation and the absence of several of the safe points we have navigated after the last decades. At the same time, the challenges we face today illustrate a striking feature of foreign policy practice: how much is involved in tackling dilemmas. Ideal solutions are more exceptional than the rule. Considerations that conflict often have to be weighed against each other. We have to be honest about that. The complexity and dilemmas also make us rarely in the choice of only good alternatives in our time. Very often, the situation is that we have to choose the least poor of the options – and make it clear that not making a choice is also a decision that has consequences. The many contradictions in the world around us create the need for anchoring and debate on both dilemmas and priorities – also here at home. In my statement today, I am concerned about the importance of foreign policy for the protection of Norwegian interests. We need to strengthen the areas that mean the most – our security, our economy and our well-being. To a great extent, we and others have been able to take the established world order for granted. Now we need to mobilise to defend the values on which we build our foreign policy – from democracy and human rights to free trade and respect for international driving rules. We need to work even more closely with old and new friends and allies to protect the multilateral system. It's under a lot of pressure. We must exploit the framework of the UN's sustainability objectives in the work of a better world for all. This is particularly important at a time when identity policy and populism convince many that the adversity they face is due to globalisation – and that the answer lies in more protectionism and nationalism. On the basis of these challenges, I am now taking the initiative of a new project to discuss Norway's interests in a multilateral world order. What do international institutions such as the United Nations, NATO, the World Trade Organisation, the EU and the OSCE mean for Norway – and how can we best set the agenda in these institutions? The project will invite you widely to debate and will result in a big message in spring 2019. In meeting a dynamic and unpredictable foreign policy landscape, I set out three key priorities today: firstly to safeguard and safeguard Norway and Norway’s interests, with clear transatlantic anchoring. Secondly, to contribute to a safe, free and economically strong Europe. Thirdly, to work to achieve sustainability objectives and to maintain and strengthen multilateral institutions and the international legal order. The Minister for Development aims to make his own policy statement later in the spring. The Government Platform states that Norwegian foreign policy begins in Europe. There's two reasons for this. Firstly, our security and well-being depend on a safe, free and economically strong Europe. Secondly, we are part of a European community of values. A safe Europe is a Europe that is capable of taking greater responsibility for the common security, defending against external and internal threats and building dividing lines that give rise to conflict and instability. It is a common European responsibility to prevent wars like those we saw in the 1990s and 2000s in the Balkans from happening again. There are now greater expectations – and greater willingness – to strengthen the EU’s ability to address Europe’s security challenges. The government believes that this development can strengthen European, and thus Norwegian, security. It is in Norwegian interest to cooperate closely with the EU and the EU Member States in this area. However, this presupposes that the EU and NATO find a division of labour that allows them to continue to complement each other. It is not in the interest of anyone with parallel structures in the EU that overlaps with NATO — where the resources of European countries are spread thinly over two structures. The effort we are making for a safe Europe is necessary to ensure a free Europe. We are working for a Europe that respects the freedom and rights of the individual, that promotes well-functioning democracy, and that underpins international law intergovernmental cooperation. Developments in several European countries in recent years have shown that we cannot respect these values for given. As the President of France, Macron, has stated: in this area, we cannot be familiar with a two-speed Europe. Governments seek to influence, bilaterally and in cooperation with the EU, governments that adopt legislative reforms and other measures that violate the rule of law. Nordic cooperation is part of the government's vision of a strong and secure Europe. In the last few years, Norway has led a number of Nordic cooperation forums. Last year we led the Nordic Council of Ministers, and this year Stortinget has the chairmanship of the Nordic Council. Our strategic partnership with the Nordic countries is far off. Not only does the government want to continue a committed Nordic voice on UN and climate issues, we also want to further develop the security policy dialogue with our European allies, and we are building on the Nordic defence cooperation, which this year is under Norwegian Presidency. Economic strength is a prerequisite for us to safeguard our security and promote our values. The EEA Agreement gives us access to a home market of half a billion people – the second most important market for Norwegian goods and services. One example is that more than 170 combinations of vehicles with sea food daily cross the border unhindered into the EU. It would not have been possible without the EEA Agreement. About 80 pst. our exports go to the EU. The EEA Agreement gives us easy access to skilled labour from other countries, which has been an important contribution to growth and welfare in Norway over the last decades. While such a common labour market provides economic strength, it may also involve cross-border labour crime, such as undeclared work and other crimes. The Prime Minister has therefore initiated closer cooperation at European level against crime at work — an initiative that has been well received. Let us take, among other things: to promote a common European strategy on labour crime and European pilot projects based on the model of the Norwegian etats co-operation. The Prime Minister’s initiative is an example of Norway’s commitment to tackling common challenges in Europe — challenges to which the nation state is short. Another example of such a challenge is migration. This requires responsible European cooperation as part of a greater global effort. For Norway, it is important to contribute to common European solutions. A comprehensive migration policy must include a wide range of instruments: we need effective external border control through Schengen. We need to develop a solid and well-functioning asylum system in Europe. We need to protect the institution of asylum in order to provide protection for those who need it. This is also about the obligation of countries to repatriate migrants without a need for protection. And, above all, we need to strengthen cooperation with those countries from which refugees and migrants come and travel in order to come to Europe. Migration must also be seen in a global context. There are still countries in the south that accept both the majority of migrants and the majority of refugees. Norway will take an active part in the UN negotiations in Geneva and New York leading to a global platform for refugees and migrants. Cooperation with the EU is also central to government's policy of tackling climate change. Norwegian industry and the petroleum sector are already participating in the EU ETS. Now let's move on. We will conclude an agreement with the EU on the joint fulfilment of the objectives of the Paris Agreement for the rest of the economy, in sectors such as transport, agriculture, construction and waste. In this way, we take joint responsibility in Europe to address common challenges. The UK decision to withdraw from the EU has not led to a reduction in the ambitions of European cooperation that we are part of through the EEA, Schengen or other agreements. Brexit means changes in our relationship with the United Kingdom, but not with the EU. We have a common interest in the fact that the discharge is done in an orderly way. From the Norwegian side, we focus on five main challenges. Firstly, it is important that we put in place the same transitional regime, at the same time as the one agreed between the EU and the United Kingdom, in order to ensure a continued consistent internal market during the transitional period. Secondly, we are working to have the same arrangements for those parts of the EU-UK callout agreement that are relevant to us. This applies in particular to Norwegian citizens in the United Kingdom and their acquired rights, and to British citizens in Norway. Thirdly, the government's ambition is to establish as close and comprehensive relations with the United Kingdom as possible. Fourthly, we closely monitor the development by the EU of any new forms of cooperation with third countries in the wake of Brexit, in particular in the field of foreign and security policy and in the field of justice. Fifthly, we must also be prepared for a scenario in which the EU and the United Kingdom are unable to agree on an outsourcing agreement. I am also getting closer to European policy in general and Brexit in particular in my European policy statement later in spring. Security is not just a basic priority. Security is also a prerequisite for large parts of foreign policy. The situation in the neighbourhoods is still demanding. Russia’s illegal annexation of Crimea and the destabilisation of eastern Ukraine continue to challenge Europe’s stability. In Syria and Iraq, ISIL has been deprived of all territorial control. However, large areas, from Sahel to Afghanistan, remain unstable and will continue to provide ground for threats that can also affect Europe. Progress in the fight against war and conflict in these regions is a prerequisite for achieving the UN's sustainability objectives. Our efforts to stabilise conflict areas must also address the underlying causes of the conflicts. Therefore, peace and reconciliation work is an important part of Norwegian foreign policy. As a patient and impartial organizer, Norway is a sought-after player in several conflicts. We seek to facilitate dialogue between parties in conflict with the aim of creating sustainable policy solutions. Together with allies, we assist, among other things, in: the parties to Afghanistan, South Sudan and Israel-Palestinian conflict. We also maintain our strong commitment to securing the peace agreement in Colombia. Since 1905, Norway’s security has been anchored westwards, first with the United Kingdom and then with the United States and NATO. NATO is the cornerstone of our security policy and the world's strongest defence alliance. But the force rests not only on military capability. It also rests on common values. It is precisely this community of values that makes us, in the utmost consequence, willing to risk the lives of our soldiers to defend each other. We hear very often that Europe must take responsibility for its own security. Equally important is that we are there for each other's safety. That's the essence of the transatlantic bond: that our security is woven together, and that we commit ourselves beyond our own interests. It is therefore in the Norwegian interest to contribute to a strong alliance and a good transatlantic relationship. This requires more of us than before, both economically and politically. NATO has become more diverse, and in order to be able to take responsibility for each other's security in a good way, we also have a deeper relationship with the central allies in Europe and with our Nordic neighbours. The security threats are perceived at different levels of intensity and the political developments in the Member States are less uniform than before. Alliert cooperation is therefore also a major priority for the NATO summit this year. Continuity means that everyone contributes and everyone experiences being cared for. Therefore, Norway shall contribute to all NATO core tasks and to the continued transition of the alliance. We've been a driver to change NATO's command structure. We are also at the heart of strengthening the maritime dimension of the alliance, with emphasis on the North Atlantic. An overall increase through the long-term plan for the defence sector has agreed that there should be more allying and training in Norway and with Norwegian forces. This is a wise policy which also follows up the pre-storage and reinforcement agreement to which the Stortinge joined unanimously in 2006. Through the basic policy, Norway has chosen not to open up bases for foreign powers’ battle plots on Norwegian soil in peacetime. Instead, we rely on allied reinforcements in a possible crisis. However, that assistance must be prepared and practised in peacetime in order to be effective in crisis or armed conflict, and in order for the security guarantee to be credible. That's exactly why we have to make sure we have the ability to receive allied reinforcements. We must have a good national plan, and NATO's reinforcement plan must be up-to-date. Since the early 1980s, we have been storing relevant ally material in Norway, and we need a good and relevant infrastructure. For many years we have had significant allies in practice and training in Norway, from countries such as Germany, the United Kingdom, the United States, the Netherlands and France. With greater military activity in the neighbourhoods, it is natural to see more ally practice and training in Norway. This is wild and long-term Norwegian policy. The United States remains our closest ally. The Prime Minister's visit to the White House in January confirmed the strong ties. After the US presidential election, it has been important for the government to communicate to the US authorities that our extensive cooperation is of common interest. Our message is that Norway is important to the United States, and cooperated with us from culture and education to close foreign, security and defence cooperation. We cooperate closely in the north areas, where Norway's contribution is invaluable to both the United States and NATO. Our soldiers are making joint efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan. We work together on a lasting solution to the Middle East conflict and a political solution to the conflict in Afghanistan – to name a few examples. The rhetorical packaging has changed, but a lot of American foreign policy is still recognizable. In some areas, however, there are significant changes. From the Norwegian side, we have greatly regretted the intention of the United States to withdraw from the Paris Agreement. The United States' international climate exposure is now far away. At the same time, several U.S. states, major cities and economic operators have increased their commitment. The cooperation agreement between Norway and California from August 2017 is one example, and I think the transition to the green economy will continue – regardless of the signals from the White House. There is also uncertainty about US trade policy. Confronting rhetoric in the WTO and the decision to withdraw the United States from — and renegotiate — free trade agreements give the impression that policy has already changed direction. That conclusion is too early to be drawn. In the dialogue with the US authorities, we are clear that the US still has everything to do with preserving the international trading system. We must ensure that the WTO remains the basic framework for international trade. The world's great interest in the Arctic is increasing. Climate change is particularly severe in the north. They affect the social and economic development of the four million people living in the Arctic, and are carrying out a series of dramatic global changes. The northern regions are Norway's main strategic responsibility. Here our national interests are most exposed to geopolitical changes. What we do nationally strengthens our international position as a responsible actor in the Arctic. The government launched last year’s ‘North Region Strategy — Between Geopolitics and Societal Development’. By looking at foreign and domestic policies in a closer context, we also want to facilitate North Norway to become one of Europe's most creative and sustainable regions. Nordic policy is about exploiting the dynamics of international cooperation and viable cities and communities in the north. It is about cross-border cooperation, business development and knowledge, roads, airports and living communities. And the next chapter of the Northern Region Policy is about sea. Nordgebietpolitik is the entire government's project. Through Barents' cooperation, Arctic Council and Baltic Sea cooperation, we work with our neighbours to find common solutions in the north, in areas such as climate change and the environment, health and safety. The continued contribution of the defence to the strengthening of sovereignty and understanding of the situation is an important part of the Northern Region policy. It is also a contribution to regional stability. Our relationship with Russia remains a constant and important factor in Norwegian foreign policy. Norwegian Russia policy shall remain clear and recognisable. As neighbours with borders both to land and to water, we have many common challenges, and we are doing the best together. From fisheries management to people-to-people cooperation over many years, we have built close cooperation with Russia in many areas. At the same time, Norway's relationship with Russia has always been compounded. As cross-border cooperation continues to develop, the situation is also characterised by the large, and increasing, military build-up of Kola. The value-related distance between Russia and the West has increased. We take a clear distance from violations of international law, and we look with concern at the situation of civil society in Russia. Norway is on the verge of our values and in our cooperation with European and Allied partners. At the same time, we recognise Russia's own security interests in the north. There's no need for increased tension between our two countries. In this situation, we meet Russia with predictability and firmness and also with openness for cooperation. Our Russian policy reflects, on the one hand, extensive cooperation in areas of common interest and, on the other hand, our Western anchoring and expectation of respect for international law and other standards of international cooperation. The broad political consensus that characterises our Russian policy is a prerequisite for this. In a troubled time, the Arctic is characterised by stability and the will for international cooperation based on international law. Arctic advice is the most important arena to discuss challenges in the Arctic, where our two countries often share common interests and cooperate well. The recent agreement against non-regulated fishing in the Arctic is a very good example of Russia and Norway taking responsibility for our common region, along with the other Arctic states. For Norway, the sea is a way of life. Marine industries – whether fisheries, farming, shipping or energy production – are the backbone of our economy. More than two thirds of Norwegian exports come from sea-based activities. Over generations, we have built up knowledge and experience that shows that marine economic development is compatible with strict environmental considerations. This enables us to play a leading role in the sustainable use of the world's oceans. That is why the Prime Minister has invited and engaged the leaders of a number of other ports in a global maritime panel to investigate how the world's oceans can create even greater values in the future, and to help us achieve the UN's sustainability goal. The Prime Minister himself will lead the panel. Anxiety south of Europe remains a major challenge. Our contribution to stabilisation and peace has been given an increasingly important basis for security policy. Many of today's most combustible conflicts in the Middle East are substitute wars and the result of coup d'états. This makes it complicated and demanding to find policy solutions. Our efforts to resolve the conflict between Israel and Palestine must also be seen in this perspective. Realising a lasting two-state solution will be crucial for the development of the Middle East, especially in a region that is significantly more unstable and fragmented than was the case when the Oslo Agreement was signed almost 25 years ago. In addition, our work as head of the donor country group for Palestine, AHLC, is helping to ensure broad international support for Palestinian state building and economic development. As a member of the anti-ISIL coalition, Norway has played an important role in the fight against the terrorist group, and we continue to do so. The efforts to prevent ISIL from re-establishing its foothold in the liberated areas of Iraq will confront us with several challenges. Not least, it is important that the Iraqi authorities contribute to an inclusive policy development that also facilitates armed forces that are ethnic and religiously inclusive. The Syrian conflict has been going on for seven years. The suffering and abuses reported from East Ghouta are almost beyond human capacity. It cruelly reminds us that the war is far from over. On Saturday evening, a unanimous Security Council adopted a resolution on 30 days of immediate truce. The international community has a clear expectation that the decision will have an impact on the ground. We're in a hurry to get some help. It's urgent to evacuate sick and injured. I'm very concerned about the escalation of the conflict over the past few weeks in the north-west part of Syria. The conflict has become even more internationalised than in the past, including: Turkish military intervention in Afrin. We look with great concern at the level of Turkey's intervention in Syria. The need is great, and the humanitarian needs of Syria and neighbouring countries are enormous. 13.1 million acids need humanitarian aid, 6.1 million are internally displaced, and 5.5 million have fled the country. This year alone, Norway will have 2.25 billion. kr to Syria and neighbouring countries. Important priorities are humanitarian aid and education with a focus on reaching girls and women. In 2016, we promised to give 10 billion. kr over 4 years. We are in the process of delivering this. The UN is negotiating a political solution to the conflict. We support the effort, but it is demanding. Prior to long-term reconstruction contributions, a credible political process must begin. Even before the war began, Yemen was the poorest country in the Middle East. Now the country is called the worst humanitarian disaster in the world today. In December 2017, 17.8 million Yemenites were hit by hunger, the UN had registered over one million cholera cases, and three million were internally displaced. The parties to the conflict must comply with their obligations under international humanitarian law. This includes the protection of civil and unhindered humanitarian access to the civilian population. Norway supports the new UN Special Envoy and his efforts to bring the parties to the negotiating table. We contributed over 320 million. kr for humanitarian aid in Yemen in 2017. We are planning for a major humanitarian contribution this year as well. The security situation in Afghanistan is serious, with regular attacks by the Taliban and other terrorist organisations. In the long term, only the Afghan government can guarantee the security of its citizens. To succeed, they have to be able to do just that. The Norwegian contribution to NATO training in Afghanistan will be continued. Nevertheless, despite the safety situation, progress has been made in several areas in Afghanistan, such as health care, schooling of children and the construction of critical infrastructure. Afghanistan will remain one of our largest beneficiaries of assistance. At the same time, we know that the conflict in Afghanistan can only be resolved through a real dialogue between the Afghan Government and the Taliban. A political solution requires the active support of the international community and Afghanistan’s neighbouring countries for such a process. Norway is at the forefront of this work. The parties want our involvement to find a political solution. We have long been committed to communicating contacts between the opposing parties with a view to an inclusive Afghan process. In this work we must build trust, and we must be patient. The UN Secretary-General has called the situation of the rowingya in Myanmar one of the fastest growing refugee crises in the world. It's a humanitarian and human nightmare. The situation in both the refugee camps in Cox’s Bazar in Bangladesh and within the Rakhine State is very serious. Since the crisis escalated in August 2017, Norway has provided EUR 134 million. humanitarian aid. Our message to the authorities in Myanmar is clear and has also been given in repeated meetings with the authorities: violence must be stopped, humanitarian access must be given, and refugees must have a safe and dignified return. The combination of protection and action against sexual violence and abuse is important. This is unfortunately something we see more and more of. Some of our main security challenges are of a global nature. Global climate change is also affecting Norway and leading to increased risks in a number of areas. Climate change is like a ‘threat enhancer’ that targets poor and vulnerable countries hardest and climbs above the agenda of organisations such as the UN, NATO, OSCE and AU. We have just started a strategic work on how Norway can meet climate-related challenges, and what the climate threat means for our increased investment in vulnerable countries. As part of this work, we have taken the initiative of our own Commission on geopolitical implications of the growth of renewable energy, in cooperation with Germany, the United Arab Emirates and the International Organisation IRENA. The significance of the digital space is great and increasing. We are becoming increasingly dependent on digital solutions for large and small problems. It makes our everyday life simpler and more effective, but it also makes us more vulnerable. The whole of Norwegian society today depends on secure and stable digital networks. A serious cyberattack may affect the critical infrastructure of society. The digital space opens up new and serious threats from both state and non-state actors. In order to achieve the best possible protection, Norway is dependent on broad cooperation both nationally and internationally. The government launched an international cyber strategy in August 2017. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs works closely with other departments and agencies to deal with digital threats. Dissemination of nuclear, nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction is a major safety challenge. The global disarmament and non-proliferation regime is under pressure, with increasing international polarisation and particular concern about the development of North Korea and the future of the Iran Agreement. We therefore need to protect and increase confidence in existing disarmament agreements. Norway shall continue to be an active, responsible and constructive partner in disarmament and non-proliferation activities. We further develop Norway’s international leadership role in nuclear disarmament verification in order to contribute to real disarmament. At the initiative of Norway, the UN is now setting up its own expert group on nuclear disarmament verification. The expert group shall consider how to develop credible verification mechanisms in the framework of established non-proliferation obligations. A good relationship with the large emerging economies is important for Norway. We have strengthened our ties with regional organisations such as AU, ASEAN and ECLAC. This is important not only because Africa, Latin America and Asia are getting more and more influence, but also because we are totally dependent on working together to achieve the sustainability goals. Latin America is becoming increasingly important for Norwegian business, with particularly large investments in Brazil. Europe and Africa are neighbours, and our destiny is linked. Although we still provide a lot of aid to Africa, our business activity is becoming more and more important. There are great opportunities in Africa, and we need to focus more on investment, industrial development and growth in the private sector to create jobs. China is a power that engages in the full range of global issues and assumes greater responsibility as a global actor. We are following the development of China as a foreign policy actor. China's political and economic choices affect us all, not least in the environment, trade and development of new technologies. We want to further develop our broad relationship with China. The establishment of an annual policy consultation mechanism allows discussion of all issues affecting Norwegian and our common interests, including human rights. At the same time, we must be aware that China is a major power that, with a broad range of instruments, pursues its own interests in our part of the world. Value issues are an important part of our relationship with China. Different starting points and social systems should not prevent constructive discussions of experience, views and policies. China is among the world's leading economies. It is positive that they express strong support for the multilateral trading system of the WTO and the international financial institutions. China is our biggest trading partner in Asia, and we have complementary economies. The resumption of negotiations on a trade agreement with China is well under way, and we are negotiating to achieve the best possible conditions for Norwegian business. The government also prioritises several other central countries in Asia. The Prime Minister’s visit to Japan earlier this month showed great opportunities for more cooperation in research and development, innovation, business and energy. Norway and South Korea cooperate closely on a number of maritime issues, including in the north. The bearer in relation to Indonesia is the climate and forest partnership, but also includes energy, sea and human rights. Norway and India have extensive research cooperation, with challenges such as climate, clean energy, food security and the bioeconomy among them. A new India strategy is being developed. This is cooperation for the future. We are used to saying that the value base for Norwegian foreign policy is fixed, but these values need to be strengthened and invested in. This applies not least today when we see attacks on democracy and human rights, equality and open economies. The multilateral system is a crucial institution for the world and for Norway. Norway shall be a clear voice in order to maintain and strengthen this world order. International law is our first line defense. Norway must only stand when international law is defended, both in principle and in action. Here we stand with our allies. We must build understanding that respect for international law is in the absolute interest of everyone, both small and large countries. We must also continue to strengthen the UN. Cooperation within the UN is the very foundation of our rule-based world order, of human rights and of the multilateral institutions in which countries meet to meet challenges in areas such as global security, development and the environment. The sustainability goals of 2015 are an important breakthrough and a unique framework around global cooperation for a better world. No one can replace the global legislative work where UN organisations bring all countries together and seek consensus on the way forward towards a better, freer and fairer society. Unfortunately, we are now seeing increasing polarization that makes it more difficult than before reaching agreement on value issues in the UN. At the same time, we must also make strong and clear demands for reform of the UN. We have to ask whether it is the UN or other actors that are best placed to solve various urgent tasks for the world community. The UN Security Council remains the world’s most important body for international peace and security. The 15 Member States of the Council adopt binding international law decisions on conflict management, sanctions, peace operations and the use of force. Membership of the Council entails cooperation with major acts and others, and increased responsibility, visibility and influence. The government will therefore give the highest priority to Norway’s candidacy to the Security Council for the period 2021–2022. We provide to safeguard our national and global interests, to contribute to peace and conflict resolution and to support the rule-driven world order that has served Norway well for over 70 years. We want to engage the Storting in the campaign, which becomes a nationallift, regardless of the outcome. The competition from our Canadian and Irish friends is hard, but together we have the opportunity to succeed in convincing the majority of the United Nations Member States that Norway should remain in the Council, 20 years after the last time. Respect for human rights and democratic fundamental principles defines who we are and what we stand for internationally. In 2018, the World Declaration of Human Rights is 70 years old and the UN Declaration of Human Rights is 20 years old. Since World War II we have developed a comprehensive system of global standards and monitoring mechanisms. We have done this to protect the freedom, dignity and equivalency of the individual – that is, to protect all of us. Recruitment in the fight for the freedom and rights of girls and women is one of the most depressing trends in recent years. This requires sustained and targeted efforts. We also see that the situation of sexual minorities becomes more difficult. Freedom to control one's own body, life and health is fundamental to living a meaningful life and contributing to social development. Another important human rights issue is freedom of belief and life. We give particular priority to the protection of religious minorities, who are increasingly exposed to discrimination, prejudice and violence. Every day, human rights defenders around the world show a great deal of courage in the fight for our common rights. They are exposed to great danger in many parts of the world. Norway has taken the lead in bringing together the United Nations to protect those who take risks on behalf of all of us. Yesterday I was in Geneva to participate in the high-level section of the UN Human Rights Council. There I signed a multi-annual agreement on long-term financial support for the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights. This year we will increase support for approx. 150 million. kr. It provides the High Commissioner with an economic predictability and flexibility that will strengthen the work of human rights and help prevent violations of human fundamental rights. In Geneva, I confirmed that Norway is and will continue to be a committed supporter, both politically and financially, of the human rights institutions. Patience is important in Norway’s work on human rights. The same is true of creativity and innovation. However, patient, results-oriented work is often more effective than just making public criticism – not least in the regions and areas where human rights are now under strong pressure. The armed conflict is hitting the civilian population hard in several areas of the world. Climate change and environmental degradation contribute to greater scale and duration of humanitarian crises than before. I've been talking about the acute distress in Syria, Yemen and Myanmar. Overall, the number of people displaced in their own country and across national borders is higher than ever. The UN Emergency Appeal for 2018 estimates that 136 million people will need humanitarian aid and protection in 25 countries. The government continues to strengthen Norway’s humanitarian efforts. We have increased the humanitarian budget by more than 50 pst. in the first period of government, and we're further increasing it this year by nearly 90 million. kr. But it is also absolutely necessary. We are a primary donor country that facilitates the independence, neutrality and impartiality of the organisations we support. That's the only way we can reach the most vulnerable. Not all humanitarian crises create headlines in the media. By increasing support for the UN Emergency Fund, CERF, we contribute to rapid humanitarian response in crises, including those outside the international media scene. Compliance with humanitarian law is essential for success. Norway is working for an effective and well-coordinated response. In today's complex crises, it is particularly important that humanitarian and development assistance work better together. To find good ways to work in the future, we have just started developing a new humanitarian strategy. Here we have good dialogue with Norwegian and international non-governmental organisations, which are key partners in humanitarian efforts. The multilateral trade and financial institutions form an important part of this rule-based world order. The WTO has a global commitment to international trade rules. Norway and a large number of other countries are served with predictability and are not the strongest in trade policy. The IMF and the World Bank have standards for both financial and economic governance, and the financial capacity they have to stabilise and develop the global economy is important. Multilateral institutions play an important role in global work against corruption and illegal money flows. Corruption, tax evasion and illegal capital flows undermine national resource mobilisation and undermine social development, economic growth and political institutions in very many countries. Therefore, Norway is actively working through the OECD, the World Bank and the United Nations in various processes to bind both countries and businesses to maximum transparency and zero tolerance for corruption. The OECD has several conventions and initiatives for the fight against corruption and tax evasion. In the field of trade, more recent WTO public procurement and trade facilitation legislation contains anti-corruption provisions, which are included in the regional free trade agreements Norway and our EFTA partners. Following Norwegian and Nordic pressure, the World Bank has stepped up its efforts to combat illegal capital movements. Norway shall be an asset driver in this field. We need a broad international coalition to strengthen taxation and fight corruption and illegal capital flows. I began this year's presentation by saying that the world is marked by contradictions. The seriousness of foreign policy requires a lot of us. We have just finished what Norway must be called very successful Olympic games in South Korea. But not far north of Pyeongchang, for the first time since the fall of the wall, we experience a real nuclear threat because of the steep and irresponsible policies of North Korea. In the Middle East, the situation is still dangerous and unpredictable. Nevertheless, I do not see any straight lines of development today, either towards a unique liberal world order or an authoritarian abyss. But we need to be more concerned and less predictable, including among allied countries. In order for us to continue to believe in the efforts we are making, and reverse a negative development that can alleviate human suffering, and that can resolve locked conflicts, we have to work along the lines I have outlined in the statement. We help refugees in Syria and South Sudan get a roof over their heads and food on the table. We're helping the fighting parties in Colombia put down their weapons. We contribute to the hope of a future without poverty for Roma in Bulgaria. And we're helping a girl named Malaika go to school in Tanzania and a boy named Hassan gets polio vaccine in Afghanistan. It is precisely this that is a responsible and forward-looking foreign policy: to secure and secure our own country and citizens while at the same time drawing the world a little bit in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e574	The President will propose that the Secretary of State’s statement be discussed at a later meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e590	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to seven lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e599	The world is changing rapidly and rapidly. The risk and threat picture is more complex than before. There are major technological changes, and there is a more threatening security policy situation. At the same time, the rate of change in society is greater than it has been before. The new Safety Act shall meet these developments and be able to operate in an increasingly dynamic manner. It is a fundamental task for the state to ensure the security of society and the security of its inhabitants. The security law we are dealing with today is primarily a preventive law. It intends to prevent, detect and counteract safety-threatening activities. It is a law that initially applies to public enterprises, but which allows private enterprises to be integrated to a greater extent than the applicable safety laws. To that end, it should be noted that there is also a need for a significant balance between the powerful instruments that protect the objects and structures of society, while at the same time safeguarding a society based on democracy and transparency as the basis of a rule of law. I have some comments relating in particular to the role of Storting in the Security Act. In the Committee's examination, we have argued that the law will apply to the Storting and the bodies of Storting as far as the Storting decides. It demands that the Presidency return to the Grand Duchy with an assessment of which parts of the law it is appropriate to apply. The starting point must be that the objects to be protected, the information and systems to be protected can also be protected at Stortinget and at the bodies of Stortinge in accordance with the principles laid down by law. This law is based on a very thorough preparation. Several public investigations form the basis for the device selected. A unanimous committee has agreed on an amendment and is linked to the clearance of large-scale representatives. There has been a recurring discussion as to whether or not to clear security depositors. In the overall view of the Committee, representatives of large-scale enterprises, in line with the governments, background and risk of being in a situation where pressure may be exerted to reveal secret information, are considered to be so informed through nomination and electoral processes that depositors’ representatives are de facto declared safe by elections. So that means you don't have to do a security clearance for big business representatives, like for others. They're cleared for security at the moment they enter. Then we need to find practical ways to organise this, but as far as the committee has managed to bring it about, this is also in line with international thinking, thinking in other countries. We have raised two issues that were highlighted during the hearing, which we believe is important to emphasise. One is the relationship to technology, which is not explicitly mentioned in the government bill. An overall committee stresses that technology is governed by the law as it is designed. It is about the fact that both components included in other systems, as well as technologies that could be described as strategically important, and which could be detrimental to the country in the event of its diversion, could be covered by the provisions of the Security Act and thus be of value for protection. This must be the responsibility of each sectoral ministry to ensure that it is properly protected. The last relationship relates to ownership control, i.e. ownership of businesses that manage information, systems, knowledge or technology. The Committee, through comments, has highlighted and referred to, for example: the Securities Trading Act, which provides for flagging. I would also like to stress to the Council of State that the Government should consider the provisions for the time of the flag and make a regulation that is clear and predictable for those affected, so that there is no doubt as to which establishments will be covered and as to whether there is a risk that others may gain undue control over such activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e614	I would like to begin by thanking the case rapporteur for the work he has done on the matter in the committee and for a good review of the main points of the matter here in the Chamber today. It's really not very much to say in addition, yet there might be some important points to bring with it. Of course, one should also be extra skeptical when the committee position is completely unanimous – that may indicate that the dialectic working method has not been properly broken. Let me now say something about the general remarks: ‘The Committee agrees with the government’s assessment of the need for a new safety law. The Committee points out that the security of society and its citizens is a fundamental task for the State.» Then it comes down to us joining in the assessment of the reality picture and the need for a new law, and what I emphasize in this context: ‘The Committee would stress that legislative measures should be implemented in accordance with the fundamental principles and values of a democratic society. In particular, the requirement to safeguard privacy interests in an increasingly digitised world is important.’;» That, I think, is an important point, because it means that one is consciously legitimate counter-reluctance in choosing instruments in the specific case. So if we don't have this very clearly in mind, then the general norm, the legal certainty, for which everyone is in, is going to give way when you're in a concrete balancing situation and you're going to have to choose a specific instrument. So the fact that we're aware that greater security can also have a price we don't always want to pay is important. Having a lively debate about it is essential. Then I get to the more technical part of the legislation here. There are two areas on which the Storting should follow in particular. One is that Chapter 8 does not apply to large-scale representatives, government members and judges, for reasons mentioned. That means that, in the case of the Storting, the Presidency shall submit a proposal. I would then like to stress from this point that it is very important that we do not regard the proposal that comes from the presidency as a curative matter of anchoring in this matter – because there is so much that is not discussed in relation to the situation of the Storting – but that we give ourselves the time necessary for the committee structure to be involved in the proposal of the Presidency, so that we can lay the basis for a good and informed discussion here in the Chamber. That's the one. The second is that we also have to be conscious in the areas that will apply from the sanctioning of the law. This Security Act is a framework law, and it requires detailed rules to be drawn up in order to put in place a separate legislation that allows good practice of the law and its intentions. I also refer to the setting of this, on page 4, column 1, unanimously from the Committee. Then we're on the other point I want to remind ourselves of, and that's the control that the regulations are now really being designed within the limits set by the Storting. It is very important that we do not open up a practice where the regulations go beyond the home law, which we have discussed here, and what we ourselves have imagined, the framework for privacy, the framework for transparency, because this also has to do with how to invade private space and have intrusive – let's say – investigation or monitoring methods. There we stand by the problem that the previous Control and Constitutional Committee was very conscious of, and that is that we have no good and systematic control over how the regulations are drawn up. It's not that dangerous if it's the regulations of the law of disposal we're talking about – I don't know if it has regulations – but on these issues we have to think through whether we don't by the laws that Stortinget allows to intervene in people's – we should say – personal jurisdiction, should establish something more than a random random check-up in the direction of the control committee, which I have otherwise just the warmest thing to say about. We have to think through that the law doesn't slip out through the law because we don't follow in the hour. It's my business here today. Otherwise, I am glad that we have a unanimous attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e639	Let me start by thanking the case rapporteur for a good work in the committee, which has helped to bring forward a unanimous position on a very important matter. The Progress Party agrees with the government's assessment of the need for a new safety law, and we believe, as the rest of the Committee, that the security of society and its citizens is a fundamental task for the state. Major technological, demographic and safety changes have resulted in marked changes in the reality of the security area. The risk and threat picture is more complex than in the past and changes take place more quickly. A new Security Act shall meet this reality. It is important to stress that legislative measures should be implemented in accordance with the fundamental principles and values of a democratic society. In particular, the requirement to safeguard privacy interests in an increasingly digitised world is important. Different considerations need to be weighed against each other. The law shall apply to Stortinget and the organs of Stortinge as far as the Stortinget so decides. The Safety Act is a framework law, which presupposes the development of detailed rules for the implementation of legislation to enable the law and its intentions to be properly practised, cf. reference to the entry into force of Chapter 16 of the Proposition. It is important to note that the law provides for the primary responsibility for prevention security in the various social sectors to be added to the individual department. This is appropriate because it is the Ministry that knows its sector best and will therefore be best placed to take decisions in its sector. We have been made aware through the media that there have been cases of outsourcing of the development and operation of critical national ICT services and systems, where the result has not been for the best of society. For the Progress Party, it is important to stress that all critical ICT services and the like are to be managed within the regulatory framework, irrespective of who delivers the service or from where it is provided. Here the departments must be conscious of their responsibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e654	Not all major and important issues get the same amount of attention. This is such a case. Some of the reasons are of course that this is a framework law, which is naturally general in its form. Of course, it is also so that it is easy in this room to be sure that there is a need to strengthen the interaction between the board and the agencies, so that prevention of terrorism, sabotage and espionage can be carried out in the best possible way. It is also widely agreed – as has been said before – that security measures should be implemented in accordance with the basic legal principles and values of a democratic society and that it is important that the necessary privacy interests are safeguarded. I expect this will be followed up by the government in the further work. Even if the setting is consistent, there are some comments that the entire committee is not behind. I think it's a little strange that not all parties can be on, so I want to stop a little bit by it. The members of the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre believe it is important that the ambition of the law is that ICT systems in health, Nav, police, power supply and echoes should be defined as critical infrastructure when the promises are to be put into practice, among other things. regulatory work and strategies. We also believe that information related to national insurance interests must be required to be operated and stored in Norway and that outsourcing of critical national ICT services and systems cannot be accepted. Of course, some of the rugs for this are what we have experienced in Health South-East and in the ICT business in the Hospital Partner. However, these members also underline the need for the national insurance body to have sufficient resources, competences and authority to meet its statutory responsibilities. There is no justification for why the government party figures cannot support these comments. Of course, it becomes a little more politically interesting if you go behind and look at what kind of activities this should mean. The proposition on page 151 reads: ‘Today, the information on the establishments subject to the law is available on the NSM websites.’ This, of course, has an impact on, for example: the nature of the activities to be notified, giving rise to the transfer of ownership. In the overview that was there when we introduced the setting, it's called Telenor, NSB, Posten and Avinor, which are, in other words, activities that are important to society, and where we have to be especially vigilant when it comes to ownership. On the list that was out there, it was not set up that health professionals and what goes on in the hospital, Norsk Healthnet SF, were covered by the law. Later, the overview that was shown on these homepages was drawn away. So by date there is no overview on NSM's websites of what kind of activities are covered by law. It seems strange to this representative. I hope that the Council of State will be able to comment on the background to this article, and when it will be available a full overview of what the government thinks this law will apply to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e672	It is good and important that the government has reviewed and promoted new safety laws, and SV is generally positive and supports the main device of this bill. It is positive that digital infrastructure is now covered by the law, but it is worth pointing out that it is still a little unclear what should be defined as critical infrastructure, and thus what falls within the scope of the law. It is therefore essential, as many have already pointed out, that the government makes this clear in the following regulatory work. SV believes that the ambition of the law must be to define ICT systems in health, hubs, police, power supply and echoes as critical infrastructure when the law is to be put into practice, among others. regulatory work and strategies. If institutions managing critical infrastructure end up falling outside the scope of the law, it is important that clear guidelines on the management of the law are nevertheless established. More things in the last year, including related to Health South-East, has shown the importance of improving the management of person-sensitive information and digital infrastructure. SV believes that information related to national security interests must be required to be operated and stored in Norway, that outsourcing the development and operation of critical national ICT services and systems should not be accepted, and that clear national requirements for safety and vulnerability assessment must be introduced. I also refer to the communication on ICT security under consideration in the Justice Committee now. In that discussion, SV will come back to the profound points of view and also to proposals related to this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e683	I am very pleased to note that a unanimous Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence joins in the government's assessment of the need for a new Security Act. As the Committee points out, the security of society and its citizens is a fundamental task for the State. Today, we are facing a changed security policy situation and a more complex and unpredictable risk and threat picture than before. A nearby example is what is referred to as hybrid threats. These are characterised by the use of a wide range of both conventional and non-conventional instruments. It thus imposes increased requirements for interaction between public authorities and between public and private activities. All the way back to the Gjørv Commission, this was pointed out in the review after 22 July. The government has therefore given high priority to the work on new security laws. This is a groundbreaking work that will help safeguard our overall national security interests. The proposal for a new safety law is the government's response to an ever-changing picture of reality. Changes have been rapid, in particular in the field of technology. In addition, increased globalisation, interaction and inter-sectoral dependence have changed significantly since the current Security Act entered into force in 2001. Such dependencies also apply across the military and civil sectors, such as: power supply and supply of goods and services. Like today’s safety law, the bill is preventive in its device, with the emphasis on combating espionage, sabotage and terrorist acts. However, it is proposed that the purpose and scope of the law be extended from being mainly related to State security – the security of the state – to including social security. This will mean that several enterprises will be subject to the law. Some of these businesses will also be private. The basic national functions necessary for the maintenance of a safe and secure society and the activities which are crucially supportive of these functions are the designation of individual departments. It's the department that knows its social sector the best. I am sure that individual departments will make a thorough assessment of which functions and activities should be defined within the scope of the law. The legislative proposal makes provision for functional requirements for security measures, where the benefits of society are to be proportionate to the cost. However, it must be clear that safety costs and the current safety situation are all the necessary measures. Nor shall more intervention be taken than is necessary, not least where privacy considerations so warrant. By making flexible and functional requirements for security measures, the requirements of the law may be adapted to the specificities of individual sectors of society. This facilitates more accurate and cost-effective safety measures. With regard to the supervisory model, it is open for the supervision to be carried out by existing supervision in each sector. This action also helps to ensure the specific nature of each sector, while at the same time making the social sectors more responsible than at present. At the same time, the national safety authority as a competent authority will have overall and cross-sectoral responsibility for the prevention of safety work and for the control of the safety status in all sectors of society. The bill also contains a new provision on ownership control as a result of the internationalisation seen in business. This is considered a necessary measure to safeguard national security interests. At the same time, it is important for me to stress that it is not a measure to protect our own business from international competition. The government believes that the new law will facilitate increased interaction between different authorities and between public and private activities. In this way, the law will ensure a more holistic approach to prevention security in society. I am sure that decisions on new law on national security – the Security Act – will be a good and important contribution to a safer society for the benefit of all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e706	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e711	There seems to be a broad consensus that the world has changed, and to the worse. There are several threats; there are several actors who have the will and ability to carry out actions and harmful activities against Norway. There is also some basis for getting a new safety code. One of the requirements of the law, which the Council of State was also concerned with in its statement, is that this is a sectoral law, and that the individual department, and in some cases when the safety authority, is responsible for identifying and keeping an overview of basic national functions. My question to the Council of State is: When can we expect the government to implement this and have an up-to-date overview in line with the provisions of the new law on what are the basic national functions that are worthy of protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e716	Now we're going to pass the law today. It is our ambition that the regulatory framework should be clear so that the law can come into force on 1 January 2019. It's very ambitious, but we believe that the situation suggests that we have to put ourselves in the harness to get laws and regulations in place. Then there's a discussion, I record, linked to the fact that it's a sector law, and that the different departments should be responsible for it. When the law is adopted, it is fully possible for the different departments to carry out the screening work. I think it's a good thing in the law to put responsibility down, first because the departments are the best known of their sector, but second, it's a good way to build a safety culture. A law and a set of regulations that shifts responsibility down into the departments and departments, builds a good safety culture, and I think that's what we need in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e724	Then I say a thousand thanks for the answer. I agree that it is ambitious, but in the light of what has been said here today, and as we know the reality, I think it is necessary. I hope the government manages to achieve its ambition. State Council Bent Höie has said in the case of Health South-East and patient information that has strayed in the context of outsourcing, to the NRK that no professional objection has been raised in advance to the outsourcing that has been – despite the fact that the trade unions have repeatedly warned against what was done. In this way, State Council Bent Höie chooses to set a contrast between professional environments and trade unions. I wonder if State Council Frank Bakke-Jensen shares that view, that there is a contrast between trade unions and trade unions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e731	Quite briefly, I believe that there are two completely different things. But to the question, which I think is good: earlier we stored information on A4 sheets, in ring binders and in archives, and we sent them with screened mail when we were going to move them from one institution to another institution. Now we're storing more and more digitally, and we're communicating in a completely different way. That makes us get new vulnerabilities, and that's what's behind the new law, that we're dealing with sensitive information in a completely different way today. Technology gives us the opportunity, but also the vulnerabilities. For me, it's important that we use the law of what it's meant to be. We're shifting responsibility downwards in the various levels, we're going to make an understanding of where vulnerability lies, and then we're going to create a security culture that ensures that information is properly maintained. Then the technology is that it's not very close to where a server stands, but it's important that it's protected. That will probably be a good answer from the trade unions as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e738	This answer is not at all a reason to thank you for: I fundamentally disagree with the Council of State if it is such that he defines that the trade unions do not represent a expertise in his field. My call to the Council of State is that he goes back to the government and takes a fundamental discussion with his colleagues about how to deal with professional organisations as professional advisers when it comes to making changes to the business. The Norwegian model is precisely based on close cooperation with the workers as the top competent experts on what we are actually doing in the public sector. I'm going to take the opportunity to challenge the Council of States at one of the points I raised in my post. It is linked to ownership control, where, in my opinion, there is a need to have clearer and clearer flag rules than is provided for in the bill – even after the hearing. My question is: how will the Council of State respond to the call for a regulation that is clear at the flag limit for the control of companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e747	Clarification of the requirements laid down in the law comes into the regulation, that's quite simple. I have said that we have an ambition to deliver it on 1 January 2019. The representative would like to disagree fundamentally with me, but I see a clear difference between a professional environment and a professional organisation. I have also been a local politician, I have been a rapporteur, I have been a county member, I have been a big-time representative, and I am a state councillor. It is a clear distinction, it should also be a constitutional distinction, between a professional organisation and a professional environment – trade unions and trade unions. It should be said that there is no such thing as there have been some cooperation agreements that make it impossible to be critical of professional organisations. I'm not going to go into that, but I'm clearly distinguishing between a professional organisation and a professional community if I'm going to have professional answers to questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e754	If a notification obligation scheme is to be effective and effective, it must be transparent and transparent as to the nature of the obligation to notify. I showed in my post that it was stated in the proposition that such an overview would be publicly available on the official pages of the NSM. It was her, but it's no longer. I would like to ask the Council of State – I should not ask what had happened here – if he can quickly make sure that this overview is available both to the Stortinget and to others, because without such an overview, the reporting obligation will not be effectively managed. Since no one from the government party has commented on the comments on critical infrastructure, ICT security and the conditions there: Does the government have a signal to give when it comes to how the government will deal with the comments in the follow-up?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e761	The requirements set in the setting we adopt today will apply from the law is clear, and that will be 1 January. Whether there are any previous transparency requirements around it: I agree with the representative that transparency around what might be included in it may be tricked. In the case of critical infrastructure, where it is to be located and where it is to be addressed: I believe that some absolute requirements for the environment to develop technology, the environment to manage technology and where this technology is to be located can also put us at risk of safety. I believe it is the safety culture and thinking about security that determine how we maintain privacy, how we safeguard the security of sensitive information. I believe that it is with this in mind that we are going to go into the regulatory work and the safety culture work we are going to do – in the light of the law adopted today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e768	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e790	We are privileged in our part of the world with good neighbours and good cooperation between the Nordic countries, and the Nordic Council is an important meeting place for the exchange of experience, dialogue and policy-making. Norwegian participation in the Nordic Council is a valuable opportunity to further develop and strengthen cooperation between just the Nordic countries and our good neighbours. What we have to deal with today is the annual report for the second half of 2016/first half of 2017. That annual report shows a great deal of activity in many areas, and that the Norwegian delegation, appointed by the Norwegian Grand Duchy, participates in meetings and preparatory work, thus contributing both to the development of cooperation and to the achievement of results in the areas that the Nordic Council will naturally take care of. There is also reason to commend the active participation of the Swedish government delegation in the Nordic Council. The fact that we have had Norwegian Presidency in two of the trade unions in the current period has strengthened our ability to influence the agenda of Nordic cooperation. There are several reasons to stress that the Nordic region is one of the most integrated regions in the world, and that cooperation has long and good traditions. A strong Nordic region in a strong Europe is an overall goal for the work. It is important, and is also our contribution, that the Nordic Council is active in our neighbourhoods, such as the Arctic, the Barents region, the Baltic Sea region and the Northern Dimension partnerships. In the Nordic Council, we also see that those of the UN's sustainability targets on border barriers and cooperation on the integration of refugees and immigration are on the Council's agenda. This work is very important for Nordic cooperation, for Norway as a nation and for the individual. The UN Sustainable Development Goals are the world's common work plan for eradicating poverty, combating inequality and resolving the climate crisis by 2030, and there is reason to commend the Nordic Council for following up this work in a separate working group under Norwegian leadership. The attention given to Nordic work by the presidents of parliaments also underlines, as the Committee has expressed, that the work of the Council is an important part of Parliament's work. The Nordic Council of Great Britain’s delegation has been committed to removing frontier barriers and, in the dialogue with the Norwegian Minister for Cooperation, has expressed the need to continue constructive work in the area of border barriers. The global challenges of antibiotic resistance have resulted in 12 concrete Nordic initiatives in this particular work. It is also positive that the Nordic Council has taken on board what goes on in microplastics in the field of cosmetics, and what goes on in plastic bags, common Nordic initiatives in the area of integration, common Nordic electronic id and a Nordic TV series prize. This work has an impact on the individual population in our countries and helps to bind our Nordic community together. During the period, the Nordic Council Presidency has focused attention on the Nordic region and the formation of our states, on the Nordic region and clean energy and on the Nordic region and networking. The Nordic region must play a greater role as a model and as a peacemaker in the troubled times in which we live, and play a more active role in EU cooperation. Then there is reason to note that the Swedish delegation to the Nordic Council has prioritised the work of a good neighbourhood throughout the region, from the West North to the Baltic Sea region and to the parliamentary bodies in the North and the Arctic. Nordic cooperation with the EU has been high on the agenda for just this work. There is an increased interest in defence and foreign policy issues in the Nordic Council. Nordic defence cooperation and increased emphasis on cooperation between the Nordic Council and the EU have also marked the work and debate of the Nordic Council. Similarly, refugee and migration issues, UN cooperation, Arctic issues and relations with Russia have been central once Nordic politicians have met in Council work. There is reason to point out that for many years, but in particular in the year covered by this annual report, the Nordic Council has examined and adopted a number of recommendations to the Nordic Council of Ministers, which are of major importance for the Nordic population. It is also important that matters are anchored in the Stortinget and in the specialist committees in our Parliament.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e824	I would like to start by mentioning the same thing as the rapporteur, the representative of Schou, has just underlined, and that is the importance of Nordic cooperation. It is probably also important to say that I believe it is more important than the relatively modest attention that the work of the Nordic Council often receives. Cooperation is important for the Nordic region because the Nordic countries represent a stable social structure with relatively small differences, stable and efficient economies and stable democracies. All countries, including Norway, benefit greatly from the relations created by Nordic cooperation. The main task of cooperation is to observe these traditions that are linked to the history of our countries, and a piece on the way what can be called a common cultural heritage, and, of course, as the rapporteur said, a common understanding of languages. The creation of cross-border networks and cooperation without unnecessary constraints are also of great importance for the Nordic countries and Norway. I would also like to highlight the personal relations that cooperation creates between parliaments and parliamentarians, as very valuable. This cooperation is also needed for another central and very important reason, which I will stress in this article: the protection of European humanism and hence the core of European democracy is an important task for Nordic cooperation. We see clearly how these values are put under pressure in other European countries. Legal certainty, the principles of the distribution of power and human rights are being put under pressure in several European countries today. It's serious. I also say this in this context because, during the recent Helsinki session, pages of this very serious topic came up for debate in the plenary. This was due to the fact that representatives of what I want to characterise as right-wing radical parties in the Nordic region highlighted views on the integration of asylum seekers and refugees who are incompatible with international conventions to which all Nordic countries have joined. They represent a violation of the important Nordic political, humanist tradition. The right to apply for asylum and protection was raised in the Helsinki plenary session. This is particularly serious when, in an authorised Nordic Parliamentary Assembly, people are spoken of in terms of demeaning and characterizing because they have a different religion than anyone sees as the right one. They should be interned, it was said from the pulpit of the Nordic Council, that is, imprisoned without law and judgment. It's a serious situation for us. The Nordic region has become the Nordic region, and Norway has become Norway, because we have taken care of each other. We should all remember what it meant in connection with the Second World War, which is a brilliant example of the core of Nordic cooperation, not only in terms of parliamentary and political matters, but also among the peoples. That's why I think it's one of the most important things about this time, and when we talk about Nordic cooperation, the Nordics have to be in front of Europe for the same values that we've shown each other throughout the whole of Nordic modern history. They are put to the test if we do not protect humanism, freedom of religion and legal certainty in our own part of the world. It's essential. That's why I focus on it in this post, mainly because that's what I think it's about. I hope and believe that, across party divisions in this great process, but also in the Nordic Assembly, when we have the leadership, with the representative Tetzschner as President and signed as Vice President, we have the strength and the will to take this fight. That will be the important thing, and that will be the prerequisite for us to be able to follow the tradition on which Nordic cooperation is based. So I want to add, like the representative Schou said, how important Nordic cooperation is in a number of institutional areas. And it goes without saying – I have thought of these words – that, especially in today’s situation, Nordic cooperation is particularly useful for Norway, because it builds bridges between the Nordic EU countries and the EEA members. Close cooperation is also important for rapid alerting and attention in European matters where there is no matching interest. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence sees Norwegian participation in the Nordic Council as a valuable opportunity to further develop and strengthen cooperation between the Nordic countries. It is not only an opportunity, but also a chance that the Norwegian delegation has used, as the representative Schou said. During the period under consideration, Norway has held a two-pronged presidency, the knowledge and culture selection and the welfare selection. This has helped to raise issues of high topicality also for Norwegian political debate on the agenda, as well as initiatives to ensure the recognition of each other’s education in the Nordic countries, improving language understanding by removing duplication of children’s programmes on TV, joint promotion of Nordic food, design, art and crafts, or joint efforts against antibiotic resistance and cross-border treatment opportunities for Nordic patients. Moreover, work to reduce border barriers and prevent new developments has been an important area of focus for the Nordic Council for many years. This work must be continued. Efforts to contribute to the implementation of the UN Sustainable Development Goals will have a high priority – and must be – in the future. A working group led by Sonja Mandt presented a comprehensive report: Nordic cooperation and sustainability goals in 2030. This will now be followed up in the Norwegian Presidency programme, including: marine environment and safety is a field of activity. It is important that Nordic countries together are drivers in international forums for maritime law and the regulated and sustainable use of marine resources. State Council Bakke-Jensen is both Minister of Defence and Minister of Cooperation, and it is also important to be told – and I think the Council of State agrees – that in recent years cooperation in the field of defence and preparedness has given greater attention to Nordic cooperation. I want to express my opinion that this is good, and I want to say that it is necessary, as is cross-border cooperation to combat cybercrime, which we discussed in a slightly different way instead, in connection with our own legislation. This, of course, is also an international issue of great importance. Social security and a safer digital life are among the Norwegian Presidency's bet areas in 2018. Finally, I would like to say that there is reason to stress the importance of close Nordic cooperation, but if we are to get the best out of cooperation, the parliaments of the respective countries need to be more closely involved in the work. The exchange of experience between professional committees and coordination e.g. when implementing EU directives are measures that can and should be reinforced. At the end of the day, I want to say from the pulpit that we have a very good administrative apparatus here in Stortinget that deals with these issues, under Einar Ekern's direction, and I express my thanks for the work they do.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e854	It was the representative of Kolberg who inspired me to take the floor again. It's about a topic that I also thought about when I worked on the annual report, and it's that the Nordic Council's work is something that very many politicians meet, both as local politicians, as state politicians, and not least when you're in big business and government. I myself got my meeting with this theme in government, as well as meeting it in municipal and county policy, in 2001, when Minister of Fisheries Svein Ludvigsen was Minister of Coordination, and I, as the Council of State for Social Affairs, was responsible for a number of welfare arrangements. If you had written the story at regular intervals to the Nordic Council and really looked at the results of Nordic cooperation for individuals, I think it could have been a useful exercise over time to really get what is a concrete result, such as. social security systems and welfare systems have been improved and also simplified so that it is possible to move more widely between Nordic countries. It is a theme that often does not pay so much attention, but many who work in one country and live in another country – and who, to put it that way, have children in a third country – benefit from the fact that these welfare schemes have been worked on, and thus also simplified. If I had called for today's delegation, it might have been – in the work where Norway now has good influence through the management of the Nordic Council – if you had seen the results over time in larger volumes, and not just the annual reports of the individual years. That story I think would have been a useful exercise, also because I think that very many of the international delegations that the Storting has appointed don't necessarily get attention to the important work that is happening. The Nordic Council is one of them. The Council of Europe, to which I myself chair the delegation, is another. But we have several delegations that have this kind of important work, which has a direct impact on citizens in our country, where the policy is up to the exam every single day.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e863	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox The President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 7, 8 and 9 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e903	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Green Party 5 minutes, Red 5 minutes and members of the Government 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of the parties and up to six lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e916	As the rapporteur, I present the position of the Committee on Energy and the Environment on this report on waste as a resource – waste policy and the circular economy, as well as the other two Document 8 proposals to which the President referred. These are policies that have been committed around the country, and there are discussions that have been lifted in quite great tension. One thing is source sorting, which you have at home and at work, one thing is security if toys, cosmetics and clothing contain pollutants – new purchases versus repairs, plastics in the sea and how this affects life in the sea, hazardous waste and its handling into the future, new jobs and what framework conditions they need to accelerate the circular economy. It's about what you and I are doing, but it's also about what the government, the EU and the United Nations are choosing to do about the challenges we're facing. The work on the message has been a journey in both known and unknown waters for all of us, I think, and I think I can say on behalf of the whole committee that we have learned a lot and contributed a number of political proposals beyond that government presented in June. It was not least because there were a number of proposals at the hearing, and we worked together to find formulations and decisions where we could get together. In addition, of course, there are proposals from individual parties that have not received a majority, but there has been a lot of commitment around this. It was the right time and time to deliver a big message now. Focusing on waste as a resource rather than just burning or landfilling is incredibly important. The Labour Party believes that the government has put forward a number of good measures on waste, but we are disappointed that it is not possible to raise the circular economy without just having a situation description or having a reference to the EU. This possibility should really have been taken into account, because the industry is calling for action, calling for policies, framework conditions and instruments adapted to a circular economy, not just a linear adjustment, as is the case elsewhere in the field of business policy. It's a shame that the government didn't have a policy for what they actually came to the Storing. It has now been three-quarters of years since this big message was submitted, so we have great expectations that things will happen quickly after we have dealt with this matter today. We already have a number of support schemes in the instrument, including: the eco-technology scheme. How can it be adapted to the challenges and opportunities of the circular economy? How can Enova’s requirements help to achieve this? How are taxes and charges to be regulated in this respect? Should you have depreciation or depreciation in your accounts, so that this is adapted to the challenges you face? What's exciting about this is that if we manage to achieve a good circular economy policy, we'll help create new jobs around the country, while at the same time being involved in building value creation, which is important. The consumer perspective has been raised through the processing of the notification. The Consumer Council had clear and clear expectations about a number of forward-looking solutions during the consultation, and many of these proposals have now been given a majority. We see that there will be a need for more skilled workers in the shoemaker, furniture-tape, watchmaker and tailoring trade if the development is towards reuse and repairs to a greater extent than we have today. In that case, the training provision must be organised for that purpose. We want to increase the right to return to six years. We increase the seller's burden of proof to two years and adapt the legislation so that goods can be repaired by all professional repairers without breaching the warranty. The resource use of the waste hierarchy should start with the production of minimum waste. Therefore, we call for action on the overall objective of reducing the amount of waste. Norwegian waste policy is today largely about the lower stage of the waste pyramid, which is landfill, and unfortunately it goes in the wrong direction. It is a national target that the growth of the total waste quantity should be significantly lower than economic growth, but we see that over the period 2012-2015 GDP increased by more than 7 pst, while the growth of waste has been 8 pst. during the same period. By moving up the waste pyramid, we will be able to both reduce the climate footprint and increase job and value creation, supported by a business with enhanced green competitiveness and new business models. During the hearing, a number of actors addressed this precisely. When you go to the store and buy clothes, baby clothes, dolls, shampoos or anything, you think this is a safe product. The truth is that there are still new findings of pollutants in these commodities. They contain chemicals that are considered to pose a serious threat to health and the environment. Some such products contain the pollutant PFAS, which is among the least biodegradable substances we know. In the Workers' Party, we believe that the pollutants have to be removed from the circuit, and there is a need for a ban on products containing PFAS. It shall be safe to buy children's clothing; it shall be safe to buy toys. In the case of hazardous waste, as far as mentioned in this Communication, there may be two to three lines. It is a national responsibility to have landfills for hazardous waste, not least to contribute to objectives and measures that reduce the need for landfill. This is an important matter to address. The government is now finding a new solution from 2022, when the Lang Island is full. It is the government's responsibility to provide the best solution, but in this communication it is also natural that we from Stortingen place some overall leadership to ensure proper national responsibility. More stringent circular economy requirements are also needed in this field – better solutions for the environment around landfills and the use of new technologies and skills development. The total image of the landfill to be taken over from 2022 must have safe solutions for both future neighbours and the environment. The government's ambitions so far are unclear and vague, so here we hope that the Council of State will be able to work actively and constructively to find good solutions for the future, and preferably in cooperation with the Stortinget. A national waste policy must be seen in the context of both industrial and climate policies with a view to increasing the use of waste resources, by-product within a sustainable socio-economic framework. To achieve the target of 70 pst. material recovery by 2020 and the objective of 65 pst. recycling of household waste by 2035, it is important that competence, statistics, research and development and innovation are set up in order to achieve this objective. Municipalities have a key role to play in the transition to the low-carbon society and a circular economy. They have a great potential for using waste as a driver of innovation, employment and energy, and for Norway to achieve the environmental policy objectives we have set ourselves. The working party will also address what is going on in plastic and marine littering, because we believe there is a need for a comprehensive strategy against marine littering, where one takes care of the entire value chain from the production of plastics to the cleaning up of garbage. If we are to reach the global zero vision for marine pollution, we need to better map the sources of littering, work at all stages to stop littering, find alternatives to plastics where necessary, strengthen prevention efforts and include waste plans with environmentally satisfactory waste management facilities in all ports. Here the Committee stands together in many areas, but what is important for us to mention specifically is that we must take seriously the fact that there are eight million tonnes of plastic in the sea each year. If this continues, there will be more plastic than fish in the sea in 2050, and we can't be on it. Here the stronger ligament is needed. We have said that unfortunately there are some offshore ships in print along the coast. We haven't said that all of them are going to be used to collect plastic – there are 130 boats, I think it had become huge sums – but we're concerned that we're going to take a leading role internationally to see how we can map where in the sea there is the most plastic, what we can contribute from technological solutions, and whether there's opportunities for some of the ships to be rebuilt, so that we can be involved and take a big responsibility on the international seas as well. We're a nation of ships, we're a nation of competence in that. So finally, today we have proposals to introduce a target to phase out and ban products and the use of some disposable plastic articles by 2020. As we have here at Stortinget, the committee was punished for x times during the hearing, so there's a little message from the committee to the presidency, that we might have to get rid of these. I'm discussing the proposals of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e956	The representative Else-May Botten has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e963	As a representative from Vestfold, who lives in the middle of the waste deposit on Langøya and the potential landfill in Brevik, I know that good management of waste is a high-time matter for us. Today's landfill on the Lang Island in Holmestrand is full in 2022, and without a new solution we stand without a treatment capacity for hazardous waste. Unfortunately, the Workers' Party is very violent in this matter. In the election campaign, it exploded at the bottom of our house when Gahr Støre barked with the industry and the trade unions related to this particular matter. So today the Workers' Party is doing it again, and will fill the landfill in Holmestrand with a loose proposal here in the hall. My question is then: When it almost runs over on Lang Island, how does the Workers' Party see that we should deal with it, and does the Workers' Party have any suggestions for locating new landfill?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e970	The government is responsible for finding a solution when the property in Lang Island is full. There's no doubt about it. It started with twelve different actors who were interested in this, and it has fallen to two. I know that situation very well, because I come from More and Romesdal, and Red Sand is one alternative, and in Brevik we have another option – which is also working on this. In this context, we're committed to pointing out that we want a national strategy, a national plan for how we're going to solve this, how we're going to avoid hazardous waste actually coming into a landfill, because we have to look at how we can solve this circularly. The government has not responded at all to this matter. What kind of criteria are we going to have? What requirements should be imposed on operators? This is important for us to look at. The proposal that comes today applies if you can't do it, that's what we have responded to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e975	On February 5th this year, we were able to read in today's Economy about the Workers' Party's proposal to use offshore boats in warehouses to pick up plastic in the sea – not only expensive but also a very bad measure, according to both the Marine Research Institute and WWF. At the same time, based on a study from the Helmholtz Centre for Environmental Research, we know that 90 pst. the plastic in the sea comes from 10 rivers. None of these rivers are in Norway. The most important action we can take in the fight against marine pollution is to stop its supply. It's a work we have to do outside our own borders. My question to the representative is whether the Workers' Party is willing to really do something in the international fight against marine pollution and to participate in an initiative to target a greater part of today's waste management aid around the ten rivers that supply the most plastic.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e980	I think that was a very good question. To put it that way, I believe it is important that the Progress Party also engages in this matter. I also think I must be allowed to praise the Council of State for what has been done in the United Nations, to thank you, so that 170 countries now work together to find solutions to this. What was our intention was that we have too many offshore boats in print. What can we do now? Do we have a momentum where Norway can contribute some capacity to collect the plastic that may be available, or look at the possibilities of large collections mentioned here? I have almost forgotten the question – but it was aid. I've already talked to the head of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee about that. We have not locked any door, but it is not certain that this is what is going to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e987	The representative Botten mentioned the great responsibility of the municipalities for achieving the objectives we have in the waste sector. There's a perception that many people share, that households do a huge job sorting – a little different in many municipalities, but they do an important job. Around Mjösa we have shared this also between the municipalities. At Lillehammer we have food waste facilities that produce biogas. In Hamar they also have waste water treatment plants that produce biogas. In total, in Uppland and Hedmark, we have three plants producing biogas. But all the buses are running on imported biodiesel. We don't take advantage of the possibilities we have. The Labour Party controls both Hedmark and Uppland counties. Spending these bus routes on tenders does not contribute to the creation of a market. What is most important for the Workers' Party is that the municipalities should have the tasks and the counties not do what we ask them to do, or is it the environment – locally and centrally?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e994	I think it is important that we can now look at new solutions for using biogas as a fuel. Obviously, if we can produce it at home instead of importing, it's very fine. The representative, Kjeseth, should not be surprised if there is a proposal for the Stortinget, which will build up under what he wants – a more active focus on being able to create the biogas itself and adapt its use in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e999	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1005	For all of us who are a bit above the average concerned with politics, following the debates in the Great Britain is a bit like following the Olympics – it might be a bit hard to take, but it's at least as exciting as the New Year's Eve. And then you can put whatever you want in it, so far. One thing I noticed when I ‘feeled myself’ through these debates before I was elected here was that when the committees dealt with slightly larger issues, such as: a big message – which we are discussing today – always thanked several of the representatives of the Committee and its members for their good work, sometimes even for good cooperation. Outside, I thought it was a little strange, and it might seem a little presumptuous, as if there's something you have to do to be polite. But then here is the day when I have experienced the cooperation in the committee and how we have worked with this message, and without respect I can say that I really want to thank the committee. There have been exciting and good discussions along the way, all the parties have both given and taken, which has led us to many good suggestions together. Rause and solution-oriented parties are very good for our environment, and it's just the environment that becomes the winner here today. It's probably a little bit like banishing in the church saying that it's all more important than party political victories, but it is, and I'm really convinced that most in our committee mean the same thing. Waste may not be the most desirable policy area to deal with initially, but when we go a little bit deep about what we're actually dealing with here today, it's quite exciting anyway. For us who were young in the 1980s, in the middle of the japs, use and throwing were not necessarily associated with anything negative. It's not like that today. As a conservative, I would like to thank you for that. If there is something that represents a society on the wrong track, there is waste of resources, because waste has become a resource – we all agree on that – and even the old 1980s-japs have realized that they need to change behaviour. So it varies a little bit what motivates this change in behavior -- for some people it's the environment; for others it's the recognition that there's actually money in the circular economy. That's when things happen. That's when we get something, when these capitalists are together with the environmental hippies, regardless of the motives. It is not that the motifs must always be noble and altruistic. It's very nice if they are, but now that circular economy becomes a natural part of everyday life both public and private, it's not realizable without economic incentives, and that's where we get into this room. The communication itself contains a number of concrete proposals that I am very pleased with, in particular the pressure to enforce producer responsibility for packaging waste, the requirement for sorting out and material recovery to a greater extent and the strengthening of the secondary commodity market. It's kind of a little bit of a reason why we're going to get what we want here. Then we have our coast. I'm not going to stand here and say that I'm glad you found plastic in the stomach of a whale, because those pictures were quite brutal, but I'm pleased with the reactions and commitment that followed from the images we saw of this whale. I think it was an important moment for quite a lot of people who haven't followed so much on how big the problem of plastic pollution actually is. And then I am forever grateful to Vidar Helgesen for the efforts he has made in this field, and that Norway is now taking the lead in international efforts to combat marine pollution. For us Nordics, the sea means a lot. It's part of our story, it's part of our soul, and it's an important part of our income. We have all experienced – at least we who live along the coast, and there are very many of us in Norway – to rush along a beautiful coastal path to meet a run-in bay full of garbage. Much of this is international challenges that we have to solve globally, but that does not mean that we cannot and should not contribute in Norway. We do that, and we're going to keep doing that -- and we're going to do more. We should do it free of charge for fishermen and others to deliver marine waste based on the good experience of the Fishing for Litter project. We should, in cooperation with industry, extend producer responsibility for packaging, so that it also includes co-responsibility for siphoning. The use of plastic bags needs to be reduced, municipalities should be able to introduce a fee for landfilling and work on microplastics needs to be strengthened. It is therefore important that the strategy we already have in this area be revised as technology developments in the field. We are asking in the matter today that this be done in two years' time, because we can always go further. That is what I expect today's debate is going to be very much about. We'll do things harder, faster, more, spend more money, but no matter how impatient we are, it's important that we make good, offensive and realistic decisions. I feel that we are delivering on this matter today. The knowledge base and waste statistics shall be improved and there is a need to do so. Sometimes it is a bit tempting as a politician to introduce measures based on what we call super-simple research, or self-esteem, but policy usually makes better with a good knowledge base at the bottom of the decisions. There is something else that all parties should remember when we sit and deal with budgets in the late hours, for example. For us in Westfold, who live in the middle of today’s hazardous waste management facilities – both what is and what may be – it is particularly important that the government is now asked to draw up a plan for limiting just hazardous waste, because it is part of this hazardous waste that we do not want into the circular economy, precisely because it is hazardous waste. We are also asking the government today to explore tools and measures to facilitate phosphorus recovery in Norway. A ban on products containing the toxins PFAS shall be worked on; instructions for cleaning fly ash, rubber cullet from artificial grass runways shall be investigated; a national strategy for a circular economy shall be developed – only to mention something. There are many exciting suggestions in this matter that are going to have a majority. In the Olympics, we honor our sports heroes. I believe that we need to bring about more progress in the development of the actors in the waste field as well. If we're going to succeed in the green shift, business, we politicians and citizens have to contract. That interaction is best built by remembering that carrots are much more motivating than whips – not to reduce the number of politicians who want to use both instruments, because today we do. But the most important thing we do is actually not to show action, as we often say as politicians in this room; the most important thing we do is to take the gold medal home on behalf of the environment – as a team where both businesses, politicians and citizens stand together. I'm dealing with the suggestions on the right with the other parties that are behind the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1026	The representative Westgaard-Halle has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1033	I agree with the evaluation of good cooperation in the committee. This is a notification of waste and circular economy, but, as has been said earlier, the focus of the notification has been more on waste management than on circular economy. So I was going to use the opportunity to challenge the Right and the representative on what you now think and think of as the further development in the circular economy for Norway, because this is not just a detail, it's a very central change of mind about economics, economics and business. There's a strong commitment out there, also in business and in other actors, that we should do it, but it's obviously a long canvas to bleach also for Norway, so what's the Right answer to that challenge?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1040	I share the perception of that commitment, and I'm very happy to see the involvement of the circular economy that is today, because it's a little bit new; it's something that's come in recent years. I'm also very happy that we're going to be together in the committee today, and I'm going to ask the government for a national strategy for the circular economy, which I expect is going to address and answer many of these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1045	I know that the Westgaard-Halle representative shares my commitment to investing in biogas. Today there are about 40 biogas plants in Norway. Only seven of them use manure as raw material, according to the Environment Directorate. So now it's just about 1 pst. of the manure used for biogas production. The size decided in 2009 to facilitate the use of 30 pst. of the biogas production fertiliser by 2020. The status is that we are quite far away from this goal. The question is what concrete measures the government parties have taken to achieve this objective, which now appears to be totally unrealistic.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1052	Thank you for a very good question. I'm very happy about that, because I come from a state that actually does this. In Westfold we have Count Biogas, and there is manure part of the plant and used to a very large extent, and it has been after a very good cooperation with, among others. The peasant team, who's been a proponent. I am also very pleased that we in the matter today are just going to promise that, and to a greater extent, we are going to call for manure to be introduced into biogas plants in the future, and that we are demanding that this be investigated. - So it's fine.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1059	I would like to start by thanking the representative Westgaard-Halle for good cooperation, especially for doing something about the spread of rubber cullet from Norwegian artificial grass courts; there we take an important step today. So to the question. On 3 February 2015, the then environmental spokesman in Right, Nikolai Astrup, said: «Environmental poisons are increasingly used in products we use and surround us with every single day. It is demanding for consumers to deal with, not least because we rarely know what the products we buy contain." My question is then: Why will the Right not support SV, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the MDG's proposal to provide consumers in Norway with information on the content of environmental pollutants in products they purchase?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1071	I very much agree with the SV representative on the challenge of environmental toxins, and I am also very pleased with the work that has been done in the EU. It's one of our most important tools to actually solve this. With regard to the REACH Regulation in the EU, Norway has nominate several pollutants to be on this list, so we are one of the drivers in this regard. I think we need to solve this, we need to do it together with the European Union. Having special national bans is very tempting, but unfortunately not feasible. I think, unfortunately, that the solution is that we have to do this across the EU – both the content declaration and the raising of more pollutants on this REACH regulation list. We have a bit of that approach in Norway that we are going to be able to solve other problems, and I think the solution here is that Norway is doing it, but together with the EU, so that we become more.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1078	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1083	It is obvious to everyone that the essence of a good economy is the most efficient use of resources. This is exactly the core of Message. Article 45, relating to waste policy and circular economy. The question is how to make better use of our resources as a nation, both in terms of the economy and the green competitiveness of industry, and also in terms of the environment. For a long time, there has been a close link between growth in the volume of waste and growth in the economy. This is a context that everyone has an interest in breaking. We're going to produce less waste and make better use of the waste we get, while continuing to facilitate growth in the Norwegian economy. In other words, we're going to raise our eyes, see the possibilities, and think again. Because as the famous physicist and Nobel laureate Albert Einstein once said so nicely, the world we've created is a result of our thinking, we can't change it without changing our thinking. And that's exactly what we're doing. We are seeing more and more examples of businesses that see new opportunities for better use of waste, whether it is for material recovery or for the production of energy. An example is the work of Yara and VEAS to recover nitrogen to mineral fertilisers from wastewater. VEAS has an ambition to be world leaders in the exploitation of wastewater as a resource for the benefit of both the environment, society and the bottom line. This is an example that it can pay to think new and think circularly. I would also like to devote some time to what may be our greatest common environmental challenge, namely plastic pollution in the world's oceans. Norway is the world leader in the fight against marine pollution, and there is a position that we will continue to hold. For this reason, it is also gratifying that, through today’s treatment, we have a strategy for marine plastic removal and application of microplastics. For the Progress Party, the fight against marine pollution is a matter that is high on the agenda. This means that a stronger effort is being made to remove plastics both on beaches and under water, but also to reduce its supply. According to World Economic Forum estimates, world oceans are allocated 15 tonnes of plastic per minute 24 hours a day around 365 days a year. In addition, based on a study from the Helmholtz Centre for Environmental Research, it is estimated that 90 pst. of all the plastic in the sea is transported there via 10 rivers. This means that the biggest effort Norway can make in the fight against marine pollution is in many ways beyond our own borders. In other words, we need to raise our eyes and see how, in a performance-oriented and cost-effective way, we can take action elsewhere in the world. Put on the tip: in the big picture, picking garbage on Norwegian beaches is not going to help if at the same time we are not able to bring down the global supply of plastic into the sea. There are many challenges that await us, and it has not been done overnight to ensure better resource use and profitability and take Norway into a circular economy. To see it in perspective, we can now find ways to make money on waste, waste that we in many cases previously chose to dig down the ground in hopes of never seeing it again. The world has changed, and in this case for the better. There is also no simple solution that removes the plastic from the ocean overnight. Unfortunately, this is a job that requires a lot of time, money, effort and new, good ideas. Nevertheless, I am optimistic. I believe that this is something we can solve. And to quote Albert Einstein again, we have to learn from yesterday, live for today and hope for tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1100	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1106	We're dealing with a big message about waste policy and the circular economy, but there's been a lot about waste and little about the circular economy. The whole point of the circular economy is that it's about a lot more than waste. My question is therefore to the Progress Party: if we keep waste policy out of the way, everything about waste, what areas of the circular economy does the Progress Party believe they have been impressed by this big message?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1111	Norway is very good at much, and within the waste management and circular economy we have come a long way. I think we're among the countries in the world that have come the farthest. When we look at all the new things we have to acquire from both knowledge and competence in the circular economy, I think that Norway, as a nation, is going to spend some time looking at how we can make good use of the resources we have today. That's why I'm glad we're now going to sit down and make a national strategy, which I think can bring us on this topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1116	I think that the answer was quite descriptive, because it shows that there is no grip in the circular economy in this message. The only thing that is pointed out is that the Storting has said that a new strategy should be adopted. Is it really like that? Does the Progress Party believe that this message does not contain a single act of circular economy other than waste policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1121	This message contains mass, and it also contains mass in the circular economy. But it's clear that we have a lot to learn about the circular economy. We have a lot to learn about the life-cycle and the life-cycle of the products. That's why we're saying now we're going to let it go. I think there's a change of mind out there among people most and out in business, and we're going to join and go. That's why we do this – acquire knowledge and use the research environments to get a good strategy and to facilitate meeting this in an offensive and good way in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1126	This debate and the work on the communication have also shown that it is a majority for a food caste law, but I suspect that the Progress Party and the Central Party really agree that the sweetness is better than the bitterness that carrots are better than whips. That's why the Central Party thinks that the industry agreement to reduce food waste is and was a good idea, and it's positive to see that the agreement has a high level of involvement in the industry. But food minister Dale, the party trap of my opponent, has explicitly stated in the form of letters to the Christian People's Party a few years ago that he is opposed to state funding of e.g. Food centres, and we know that the draft budget meant cutbacks for both Matsentralen and food waste.no. Why will not the Progress Party be involved in building up under the positive initiative of the industry agreement for reduced food waste, by also taking an active role of the State? And how should the industry interpret the signals sent by the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1131	The industry should interpret the signals given by the Progress Party in such a way that we have great confidence in the industry and the industry agreement that they have now put in place. For many years, we have supported the measures that have been taken, which have shown positive results, among other things. We have reduced the food waste by 12 pst. from 2010 to 2015. We see a lot of positive action being taken, and we very much believe that continuing that work – not least with the attention that consumers are now giving the theme to a much greater extent – will bring us into being. Without needing either a food law or other bans and prohibitions, we can do this in a good way and reap from that experience. We're going to see what we get out of it before we go on with any other grip.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1136	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1141	I would also like to thank the Committee for a good cooperation on this big message. The centre party indicates that in a circular economy, the idea of use and waste is ignored, and that the purpose is that resources remain in the economy, even if the product they are part of, no longer be used for their original purpose. The centre considers that the circular economy, as well as waste management and circulation, is concerned with increased capacity use, stricter requirements for material use and smart solutions that provide new ways of operating industries, the public sector and private households. I would like to stress that it is important that the authorities set feasible targets and reasonable reporting requirements that do not make it unnecessary time-consuming or bureaucratic for each enterprise or sector to comply with the requirements. It is important that the instruments are designed to promote, not inhibit, activities in industries to produce more of the solutions needed to meet the Paris Agreement’s climate obligations. The legal system and the tax system really need to facilitate the transition to a circular economy. There was a broad consensus among those who met at the hearing that the role of waste in the circular economy has been given too much space in the government's communication, and that there is a lack of both comprehensive and concrete measures to move from a linear to a circular economy. The centre has a focus on Norwegian circular economy in particular and wants ambitious targets for recycling and re-use. We have to have a holistic thinking about the circular economy and the waste place in it. Several sectors could have been developed. I want to bring forward the transport sector, which has a great potential within biogas. It's doing a lot of good in this area, but we see that the potential is much bigger. Today there are about 40 biogas plants in Norway, only seven of which use manure as raw material. So now it's just about 1 pst. of the manure used for biogas production. The size decided in 2009 to facilitate the use of 30 pst. of the biogas production manure by 2020. We are mildly said quite far away from that goal. A transition to biogas as an energy carrier must mean a stronger commitment to concrete and time-bound targets. I would like to stress that biofuel production does not have to go at the expense of food production, either nationally or internationally, and therefore believe that it is more necessary to facilitate the exploitation of waste resources such as organic waste and manure for this use. Biogas as a heavy transport fuel is essential for reducing greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector, therefore we now need to facilitate increased biogas investment through the framework conditions. It will help achieve the objectives of a circular economy, while fulfilling our commitments to significantly reduce emissions in the non-quota sector by 2030. The centre party believes that in order to achieve this objective, the instruments must be stimulated and evaluated in a comprehensive manner to ensure that at least 10 pst. the manure is destined for biogas production by 2020. The centre party also points to the importance of maintaining the subsidy rates for the use of manure. It is important to ensure the economy of production. Research and development are still needed, in particular with a view to developing operationally safe production solutions at farm level. The public has a special responsibility to participate and create a market for low-emission solutions and should take the lead and choose such solutions. Wet organic waste is an important raw material for biogas production. Production based on manure is a cost-effective and important contribution to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, while making good use of both food waste and manure. There is a need to stimulate the target of 30 pst. manure and food waste are now destined for biogas production and for biogas plants to be able to input manure into the production process. The centre party is therefore very pleased and pleased that, on the whole of the committee, it is now in the interest of new industrial biogas production plants based on food waste to investigate whether it is appropriate to include manure in production. I am promoting this proposal No. 31, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Green Party, and proposal No. 34, from the Center Party. We also warn that we will support proposal No. 12 subsidiaryly, and that we will not support proposal No. 32, which we now have inside.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1158	The representative Sandra Borch then addressed the proposals she referred to. It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1165	The center party is a business party and a district party, so we all know the center party. What's important here is how we look at the circular economy, which will actually be a strong and important contribution to creating jobs around the country, which are needed. The economy is now calling for action. They don't say they want a government strategy later, they want to fill the message and the current content with politics. My question is, why won't the Central Party help fill the circular economy with political content from the Stortinget today, rather than let the government take responsibility for this and wait and see what they're doing? Is it so that, in case they go for what they've gone for before, the Central Party will actually oblige the government to come back to the Storting with the strategy?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1170	I thank you for the question. The proposal to which the representative, Mr Botten, refers is problematic for the Central Party to support because we believe it is too intrusive. It is important that the authorities set feasible targets and reasonable reporting requirements that are not unnecessarily bureaucratic or time consuming for each enterprise or sector to comply with. The proposal to which the bottom refers fears that we will become too bureaucratic and take unnecessary resources. It is important to clarify that the Central Party is involved in the development of a national strategy. However, we do not want to provide an exhaustive list, but that strategy will come back to the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1178	I might not use the word "exciting," but I would say it's fascinating to join the Center Party by day. In the budget debate last year, it became clear that climate policy is secondary to the Central Party, if it is at all so high on the priority list. Waste, on the other hand, they're busy. Circular economy they are concerned about, albeit in their own way. But the question is, what methods will the Center Party use? Well, we'll see something new. They use the EU. They show, for example: to the circular economic package of the European Union. Great, that, but for a confession – isn't it? Is the Central Party sure that this does not imply a kind of renunciation of sovereignty, or is that the admission that others can see that it is, that the Central Party's terror propaganda about the EU and the EEA is not actually voting?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1183	I thought this debate was about waste notification and the circular economy. It is clear that for the Central Party, international cooperation is important in order to achieve our climate obligations. We are clear about that, and in the range of proposals we are making here, the Centre Party has concrete actions. So I think we're going to save the EU debate for a later time, because I think maybe there will come up issues in the Storting that will create debate, and of which the Central Party is clear opponents.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1190	The representative Borch spent a lot of his post — maybe four out of five minutes — talking about biogas, and it's very good that the Senterparteen is involved in it. Of course, the use of manure as a resource in biogas plants is possible, but I ask, just as I asked the representative Boden of the Workers' Party, about what to use this biogas for, when you can't put it on buses in Oppland and Hedmark, where the Senterpartie sits with power: what do you think you're going to create from markets? When you have to pay the farmer to collect the manure and put it in those plants, there must be an economy in its entirety here. But when you don't agree to create the markets, how is the Senter Party going to finance the large costs that are needed to make the investments, other than using taxes and charges from consumers in general, when we could have put it on the bus, for which we still pay? What is the answer?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1195	I thank you for the question. It's an interesting question, but I also spent a lot of my time in the article telling you that biogas can be used on heavy transport. When you read the media today, you also read that the industry is positive to switch to that type of use if you get up production. We've set a target of 30 pst. But we're now only going to meet 1 pst. of that goal. We need to facilitate the use of policy instruments to facilitate the transition to biogas from manure.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1200	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1205	Today, we are adopting a number of points that are of great importance in the work on the serious grubbing-up that we see on our common basis of life. For a long time, large parts of our garbage heap have been treated as garbage and not as a resource. Food and plastic waste are important resources that are too often thrown into the incineration furnaces. Food waste is a resource that can help cut emissions in the transport sector through the production of e.g. biogas and collected plastics can become new plastics and thus reduce the need to extract new oil. That is why I am pleased that we have a total accumulation to ask the government to instruct all Norwegian municipalities and business operators to sort out the material and recycle the plastic and food waste. It's high time. The size is also gathering on a proposal to ensure the collection of rubber cullet from existing and new artificial grass tracks. The Environment Directorate recently concluded in a report that rubber cullet from artificial grass tracks can be the second largest source of microplastic pollution from the Norwegian land, and from 1 January 2019 we will have a regulatory framework to ensure the collection around the tracks. It's an important decision. SV would like to see the Stortinget join a ban on rubber cullet from 2023. Such a warning ban would have put pressure on business to develop environmentally friendly alternatives. SV would also like to see a big deal that took responsibility for people's health by combating the chemical cocktail we are exposed to every day. In 2013, the Consumer Council carried out a test of some politicians' children's rooms. What they found was alarming. In the former environmental spokesman in Right, Nikolai Astrup, and in the former parliamentary leader of the Workers' Party, Helga Pedersen, both carcinogens and endocrine-inducing substances were found – which would certainly have been found on the rum of my children. None of us expose our children to this with knowledge and will. The problem is that toys and products we surround with contain environmental toxins. Every day we are exposed to a chemical cocktail that in total becomes serious. Therefore, there is broad agreement to phase out some of the worst pollutants. The problem today is that the EU is preventing Norway from going ahead. We cannot ban these substances on our own. However, what we could have done today was introduce a fee – for example. products containing PFAS which have stimulated business to phase out their use. In addition, we could have ensured good content declarations that informed Norwegian consumers about the content of pollutants in products that have this in themselves. Then we could have selected these products actively away. I have to say that I am disappointed that there will not be a majority to provide consumers with this important information, and I do not understand why we should have to wait for the whole of the European population to receive this information before we give it to our people. It should be a goal for the Storting to ensure that people got very important information about the content of environmental toxins in some of the products we're surrounding. Because it is extremely easy to buy faults. In my office here at Stortinget I have an impregnation spray marked «eco friendly». Very little suggests that it contains environmental toxins, but it has laboratory tests – done by the Future in our hands – shown that it does. A babysitting, which looks and often ends up in the child's mouth, does the same thing. But this babysitting isn't noticed anywhere, either, that it contains environmental toxins. I therefore have a last call for the Storting: vote at least to provide people with information about the content of pollutants later today! And with that, I take up the SV's proposal – the ones that have not already been taken up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1226	Then the representative Lars Haltbrecken addressed the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1233	I record in a note from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the vote that they are taking the order to give the municipalities greater responsibility for what is today defined as food waste. In reality, they call for the extension of the municipal monopoly to waste management. This makes me think of the statement from the former Swedish Minister of Industry, Björn Rosengren, that Norway is the last Soviet state. In the context that the public in Norway handles everything from wine bottles to aircraft, trains, logging and art production, it may not be so strange. My question to Comrade Haltbrecken is: Where is the limit to what the public is going to do when private sector garbage is also wanted subject to monopoly?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1242	Thank you for that, comrade Halleland. As part of the work on this big message, I have myself half a morning behind me as a garbage truck in the Oslo center and have seen how we treat the food waste there. There was a private company I was with, and then I saw that the garbage car I was sitting on was driving first to one place to pick up residues, then to another place in another street to pick up residues, and then to a third place, etc. By improving coordination of this, as is the case in municipalities when collecting private waste, a reduction in the number of kilometres travelled will help to reduce pollution. That's one of the reasons for the proposal that comrade Halleland referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1249	I want back to OL, I, for Lene Westgaard-Halle from Right reminded us that we have been through an OL with many Norwegian gold. Then it's also been winter vacation, and it's probably in some states now as well. There's been a debate about paint screens. The left share the SV's focus on environmental toxins, but it is also possible to turn this case a little upside down. Do you have to pay attention to the prohibition of ski walls, or do you have to pay homage to the innovators who give us the community? This is also the question of SV, which is traditionally happy to ban and use the law, and then there are municipalities, for example. and look at it and laugh at us sometimes – at the fact that the Storting goes too far. Is it the law or is it the carrots that give the most effect, according to SV?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1256	In this area, I would like to say that when it comes to pollutants, we will introduce a ban on the most dangerous pollutants, as a total collapse also wants. Unfortunately, the EU prevents us from doing so. The use of fluorine in ski walls is a problem for nature, and it is a problem for skiers. We have had people from the country who have also addressed this problem and the need to do something about it. We have proposed that products containing PFAS or other fluorine compounds should be subject to a fee until a ban is imposed, precisely to have these products phased out more quickly. But we also pay tribute to those who develop the community – let's not say that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1264	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1269	I'm so free that I start with my own municipality of origin, Gjøvik. Everyone in the 9th grade at all the schools in Gjøvik municipality is on the hunt for microplastics. And it does not just concern these 9th graders, these students, it also concerns many other members of the family, because they feel that the washing machine is quite well stepped with rubber cullet from e.g.. artificial grass runways. So this is a popular commitment of many families to the microplastics that are pretty close to us, but that's also been visualized by the fact that over the last few years we've seen images in the media of how much plastic can be found in the species of animals in the ocean. This is a big challenge and some of the big picture we're talking about to solve the world's environmental challenges. Some would probably say that the oil we pick up from the seabed finds its way back to the sea through the plastic that lies – an estimated 15 tons per minute – in the oceans around the world. The left has been a driving force in getting focus on both tools and measures to cheer people up and cheer up to collect this plastic. We have had beach cleaning days and other measures, and we see that people have come out and cleared, whoever has organized these measures. So we're approaching a capacity limit for how many are willing to contribute to collecting. It says something about the big challenge we're facing. Norwegian waste policy shall facilitate excessive use of the resources of the waste and the safe management of hazardous waste. The overall national objective is to minimise waste damage to humans and the natural environment. It is also an objective that the growth of the quantity of waste should be significantly lower than economic growth. 80 pst. waste shall be ensured of good use of resources through material recovery and energy utilisation. Norway has long achieved the objectives of recycling, recycling and energy recovery. But then we also have the challenge that the EU is in the process of adopting higher-level targets. They aim to recover household waste up to 55 pst. in 2025 and 60 pst. in 2030. For Norway, too, which is the most advanced in this field, it will be a major challenge to achieve this goal. That's why we need to think about structure and organisation to create the capacity needed to achieve these offensive objectives, which we also have. Household waste is currently organised by municipalities. That is why the debate on municipalities, municipal structure and the tasks to be performed by municipalities is very important for the debate we are having here today. It is then a paradox that we built a number of biogas plants in the 1990s under the control of many municipalities, and that this has happened little later. There are different reasons for this, but there are also important political reasons why it has not been realised. It also has something to do with how we organise the instrument, and how we ensure that there is innovation in the waste sector, which has now become a rather technical sector, and where there is a need for larger and larger amounts of waste to achieve the objectives that we are constantly pushing about here from the Biggest and from national teams. In Gjøvik, in my municipality, we have six waste dumps, while in some other municipalities it is down to two to three down. Why do we have such inequalities? That's some of what we have to discuss in the future to achieve the offensive goals that we've set ourselves. That's where we have most of the people on the team. But in Uppland, much of the urban development is now actually taking place in the cabin areas around Hafjell, Witßfjell and Beitostølen. There are lower charges for the cabin population than for the rest of the population. This means that these municipalities will do more at a lower price. So we're facing some challenges here. In transition to the circular, this has to be in place to meet the circular ambitions that we have. Without it, we can't get to the currents that need to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1294	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1299	The left opted for the prohibition of disposable plastic articles. The left is also clear in its party programme that you want to increase the bottlepan. Today there are two concrete proposals on this, which the Left now suddenly does not support. My question is whether the Left has changed its mind on these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1304	We haven't changed our mind, but it's a time when someone uses them. If we move on without having to impose a ban, we'll try it first. Most of it works best by volunteering and using incentives. We are in a challenging situation, all the time when many of the disposable items are not produced in Norway, so having a ban on production and, if necessary, use in Norway is not always the most effective instrument and measure. Here, we need to cooperate internationally in order for manufacturers to find products other than disposable products, but also in order for us to move on and use other content in these products, so that this becomes biodegradable rather than based on fossil plastics. So here's a set of tools that we have to apply.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1309	I registered that I only received an answer to one question. There is also a concrete proposal to increase the bottlepan, for which the Left has been an active champion in the past. What is the basis for not being able to support that proposal today?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1314	We usually discuss money in the state budget. If this does not necessarily affect the economy, then we are talking about expenditure, and we have to do that in budget proposals. And the fees we negotiate in the state budget, so we'll see if we'll come back and watch for next year. But there are also other taxes and mortgage schemes that are important to get in place, as much as raising the fees and mortgages on the articles that we already have on them.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1319	I listened to the article here now, and I felt that the representative was very concerned about the circular economy and lots of things that must happen in order for us to develop jobs around the country. Not least the representative said that this and that we have to do to achieve our ambitions for the circular economy. So my question is simply, what ambitions do the Left have for the circular economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1324	The left shares many of the ambitions of the European Union for circular society, that we should use the resources and use them as best we can. Today we have too much waste that is not recycled or reused, so there are great opportunities. But to use the municipalities as an example, as I was very familiar with my post: there are a lot of municipalities that add proper nutrient land and will sell plots to the business community. Very few of them model them today on the basis that there are actors who are going to fit together in the food parks. In the future, I think we can model these business parks and use the resources next to each other to a greater extent. Then the municipalities also have to think about how they get actors to fit together, and not just sell business premises a little after the approach or after those who want to buy there and then.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1329	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1335	The committee leader started at Gjøvik, and I also want to start home, in Sogn and Fjordane. There have been many of the locals in the last few days who brought out old reporters telling of how one of the old-time buses and cars was running right on the sea. Away from the eye, away from the mind, it was even said in one of these reporters. Today, old cars and buses are deep, both in the Hornindal water and in the Fördefjord. Eventually, one ended with this dumping, ironically, not only because the view of waste changed, but because of accidents related to dumping itself. Our society is undergoing a change. Waste is a resource, waste is something we can waste on, and it is a resource to be used for the benefit of more people. As far as I am aware, this is the first big message we are debating that addresses the topic of the ‘circular economy’, even though in Stortinget we actually only ordered a waste message. Although we have a lot to learn from our neighbouring countries when it comes to the circular economy – that this is about a broader perspective, about job creation and about value creation – it is a step in the right direction, which I am happy to take. The challenge is that our increased material standard of living has made it easier for more of the resources we have to become waste. One thing they should have, the ones that float and dump the buses in the water: they lived at a time with care when it was about how to treat food, that shoes could be repaired by a shoemaker, and that clothes could be sewn around. There may also be something that we need to dry up today to ask ourselves some critical questions about. Call it attention, or call it circular economy: the point is that the use-and-throat philosophy will shake on the head of when people later look at our time. Through this big message we take several steps in the right direction. Some of the things I'm most satisfied with are the impression that we're now establishing that we need a cooking permit. The government has said that there is enough business agreement. I am pleased that the majority today say that an industry agreement is fine, but not enough. A law shall not replace an industry agreement and the good voluntary measures, but shall ensure a proper and good framework around it. We have the ability to rediscover more, we need more openness about who the drivers are, and who are the sinks in the process of food loss, and a food ban gives us the opportunity to see closer to these things. Last year, a Christian People's Party got a new member, Juma from India. She works as an assistant to young people living in extreme poverty there. She had come to realize that a year ago, the Christian People's Party was fighting to end cooking, food that could be eaten. She wanted to be on the team. Every week she collects food for needy children and tells a story that put our own abundance in a thought-provoking light. This young woman – and the dozens of young people who can thank her for her commitment to living – makes it even clearer: We need more good measures to lower food waste. The welfare activist, as she calls herself, we need more of them. I am also pleased that we, both in position and in opposition, have gathered on several good actions and progress. This is about the plastic goosebump on the Sotra beach, and we are now going many steps in the right direction to put in place both internationally and national work to phase out the large plastic garden that we have. This is about the fact that when it comes to Fishing For Litter, a trial project that was launched in 2016, you can use the experience from there in a way that allows you to put in place a broader system, which can provide a good way forward to make sure that the good experience from there is taken further. Gum cullet from artificial grass tracks is the largest source of microplastic spread on land in Norway. I am pleased that the committee has managed to work well and has come up with offensive measures that we can stand up to. A growing number have also gathered to see that the machine is to be positioned, that the economy of the future is circular, and that the government is to develop a strategy for this. We did not get multiple this time to ask the government to figure out whether reduced VAT on repairs may be a necessary and good measure to prevent unnecessary waste aggregation. The same applies to solving some of the problems posed by reusable shops or flea markets, by not being able to deliver non-commercial goods free of charge. But it's probably not the last time we discuss waste policy in this room, so we have a lot of opportunities to come back to things. I look forward to it and want to address the proposal that the Christian People's Party alone is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1356	Then the representative, Tore Storehaug, has drawn up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1363	I perceive that the Storting by its parties in its articles is concerned with hazardous waste. Norway, with its industry, a high level of expertise in new technologies and innovation, can really take the lead in the management of hazardous waste. My question to the representative of the Christian People's Party, who does not want to go for an overall strategy of action or to make demands for safe solutions and possibly look at criteria for increased recovery of hazardous waste, is: What is the reason why the Christian People's Party is not involved?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1368	In politics, it's important that the sum of what we're for does not become something that we're against. I agree with the intention and the measure that the Workers' Party's comments point to, and I think it's right and important to do, but then there's something about taking things in an order and in a way that makes it possible to do it as well and we get the good results. I think we can do a lot with the hazardous waste, but the processes that are currently going on, I'll see the results of, before we bring this kind of follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1373	The Christian People's Party wants strict labelling of tobacco and alcohol, for understandable reasons. Such marking wants the Christian People's Party, regardless of what the marking might be like in other countries. That's good. But why will not the Christian People's Party ensure that Norwegian families of children are given information about the content of environmental toxins and how dangerous it is, for example. children's clothing, before the whole population of the European Union receives the same information?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1378	SV is an important co-player and pushes towards this type of environmental toxins in a product that we all want to get rid of, and I am very happy about that. So it's like we have a lot of tools at different levels. Today, we have a European marking system. We have a Nordic marking system. Then someone says that in addition to that, we have to have a national labeling system. I do not think that is the right way to go in this case. Then at least we have to be sure, if we're going to do it, that we've taken the other steps and used the tools that we're a part of today, really. In the debate before today, there was someone who referred to the OL and the activities that were there. In the OL as in the Storting, it's important that you go all the rounds and go into the position all the time, before you get all the way to the goal. At least I want to do the same thing from this place. And that's also the way, when we talk about the content statements that the representative points out that the Christian People's Party wants, here comes the initiative that takes things in the right direction, also with our common neighbour.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1385	In the Christian People's Party it is still common to pray for the food. Now one also wants us to pray to throw the food. At least some producers have to do it, while as consumers we do not get a law that tells us not to do it. Now pizza is the most common dinner. It creates packaging waste, but there are probably also people who don't eat all their food, and consumers are not covered by this food throwing law. Why is it important for the Christian People's Party to introduce a law that is not all part of, and where the problem is perhaps the greatest? What do you mean to achieve with that kind of law?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1390	Kjenseth put in the Stortinget in the previous period when the Christian People's Party presents a holistic document 8-proposals on the fight against food waste. It also contained measures aimed at the individual consumer. The suggestions were only Christian People's Party supported in this room, so here I think a person is trying to attack the wrong person, because we are not the ones who are slow when it comes to getting rid of food also from the private consumers. I think it's a party today that says they don't want a food law, at least that's a signal policy for the consumers who are throwing a lot of food today. In Norway, we throw enough food to satisfy 800,000 people. It's a situation that at least I don't want to sit quietly and watch. Then we need more measures. If the representative wants to take action against private consumers, it should not be on me.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1397	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1402	It has now become a cliché to say that waste is resources on the way. Everyone says that. I think that's important too. This suggests that we are on our way to an economic paradigm shift, from 200 years of linear use-and-cast economy to a circular reusable economy. I've been working on this topic as a researcher, as a founder and now as a politician, and I'm impressed by the solid efforts that have been made in this committee reading's attempt to raise someone else quite casually. I would particularly like to thank the case rapporteur, Else-May Botten from the Workers' Party, for a good job here. The previous speeches illustrate that the circular thinking is in the process of attaching the grip on Norwegian politicians, at least in the speech. Everyone in this room now realizes that the earth's resources are not infinite. Everyone now acknowledges that we need to re-use resources to provide a fairly intact basis of life for our grandchildren, and most people see that circular solutions create jobs and provide environmental benefits and local value creation. The only question is whether the majority recognizes what we actually have to do to exploit the potential that is there. The starting point for this treatment was – with respect to reporting – a deeply deplorable message. The Storting Communication correctly acknowledges that the circular economy is good, but it is primarily about waste, and the list of concrete measures was short. That is why it is good that Stortinget has taken some action. Developing a circular economy is all about teaching us how to live on one planet. Then we need to protect natural capital and make people and businesses responsible, so that resources are passed on to new value creation for each use. This will require the use of the entire toolbox – increased product responsibility, green procurement, tax exemption, smart and innovation-driven regulation, more active use of the polluter pays principle. It is gratifying to see that there has been a majority for several such good actions during the deliberations. It's e.g. proposals for decisions to investigate how the metals from household waste and fly ash can be recycled instead of extracting new metals from nature. There are proposals for decisions on stricter requirements for the treatment of sewage sludge. It can help to link the cycle of nutrients in agriculture. There are proposals for decisions on the sorting of waste plastic and food in households that can reduce waste by important resources. We in the MDG are very pleased that we have had an impact on our representative proposal in this particular case. Proposals for decisions on measures against rubber cullet, which protect natural capital against plastic pollution and enable tonnes to be recycled. There are proposals for decisions on a food law that reduces waste quantities and increases the cost of wasting food, and there are proposals for a decision that the government should work for a ban on products containing the pollutants PFAS, a ban that can protect people and nature. But in many areas things are going too slow. I want to highlight three serious weaknesses in today's suspension. The first is that the proposal of the Green Party, the Workers' Party and the SV to set up a levy on withdrawals of virgin natural resources is likely to be downgraded. The proposal goes right to the root of the waste society, namely the absence of a price to destroy nature. It is amazing that the government is not even willing to pay such a fee. The second is that the proposal by the MDG to establish a strategy for the use of alternative technologies before the decision on a new landfill for hazardous waste is taken is likely to be downgraded. We thus risk binding the industry to old-fashioned solutions for a long time. The third weakness is that the government writes in the notification that the growth of the amount of waste should be less than the growth of the economy, but this wording in practice adds up to increased amounts of waste and continues to waste more. This is a blue-grey – not green – growth. This is an expression of either a glitch or for hopelessly low ambitions. Unfortunately, only the MDG and SV in the setting are criticising this objective, which will apply in the years to come. Finally, I would like to address the proposals of the Greens/Greens/EFA.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1421	The representative Per Espen Stoknes has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1427	The government has provided a notification of waste where the organisation of the waste industry is not affected to a large extent. We need to discuss what kind of waste we produce and how we recover it, but we also need to assess how the industry that handles the waste is organised. Despite major scandals in the waste industry in recent years, with Veileno in Oslo and RenoNorden in 140 municipalities, this is not actually mentioned in the notification. There is a crucial weakness in the reporting of waste, we believe. The trade union has proposed an investigation into the organisation of the industry. It also takes the proposal further into consideration during the deliberations. We need an investigation that looks at the whole value chain in the context, from collection to recycling, and how the industry can be organised in a way that provides the best solutions for both the social economy and the environment. It is quite clear that the industry is not well organised today. Figures from the SSB show that almost half of the waste from the so-called service industries is still delivered as unsorted waste. It's not the best solution for the environment. It is good that the Storting is now in favour of requiring the sorting and recycling of plastic and food waste from households and similar industrial waste, but in sum all individual proposals become a split approach to the whole sector. In our view, a proper review is needed. In addition, we see repeated examples of the fact that, especially on the collection side of the industry, the unprofessional actors are more concerned with extracting profits from the business than with developing good services. This results in poor development of skills and poor use of skills, and also weakens the pay and working conditions of employees. An example of this is the Veileno case from the Municipality of Oslo. The owner of the company, Jonny Enger, won the bidding round for waste management in Oslo in 2016 and took out 25 million. kr in dividends from the company at the same time as bankruptcy. It was neither the municipality of Oslo, nor the residents nor employees of the waste industry who served on Veileno to take over the waste management. This could not be a good socio-economic organisation of the industry — even when 140 municipalities stay overnight without collecting garbage because another company went bankrupt. Within the next 50 years, we will be 7-8 million Norwegians. Therefore, we need to plan the capacity to handle waste for decades to come. Privates handle 80 pst. of the quantities of waste but few or no private people are willing to make investments in waste treatment infrastructure. In the long term, national capacity and preparedness may be weakened. We need to know more about this. That is why I am promoting a proposal for an investigation into the organisation of the waste industry. Waste is resources on the way. Some kind of resource loss is that everyone has to own things that we use very rarely. A drill is used on average 13 minutes of its total lifetime, and each of us has things at home that fill up the bod or cellar, and that we very rarely use. When each of us owns each thing, the amount of waste becomes unnecessary when these things are to be replaced. In the case of books, we've realized that we don't have to own every book we're going to read. We can also borrow books that we want to read. Something similar we thought should be possible with tools, toys for children, outdoor equipment, etc. Today, on the island of Tøen in Oslo, you can do this. You can borrow a drill when you're using it to hang up a picture at home. In Bergen you can borrow musical instruments when you want to play guitar, or something else. That's why we're proposing that we have a test scheme with loans of tools, musical instruments, toys or other things in public libraries. A pilot scheme will systematise the experience of the different schemes that exist at some point today and will facilitate the testing of such a lending scheme by several libraries, and not least allow more people to avoid buying a drill that they will only spend 13 minutes in the lifetime of the drill. I'll bring this up on Red's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1446	The representative Bears Moxnes has drawn up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1453	I have little trouble understanding Red's approach angle, because the representative Moxnes says this is a broken message, and that it is a broken proposal. But that's how the rest of the Storting has worked quite thoroughly with this message. It's a complete message. The proposals that get the majority today are just not broken up. That's the whole point. Then we get a little bit out of his post, and then we understand what is Moxnes’ real intention, and that is to prevent someone on a private initiative from doing something good in this sector. I have some questions about Moxnes that I want him to answer: what examples of the planning economies he holds so high, does he have on the development of environmental technology and innovation that have been positive for the environment? And can he explain a little bit about what a socialist plan economy would look like in the context of the circular economy? I'm sure he'll have time for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1462	First, we can never think completely enough, so Red is for even more complete where the whole thing is possible, and it is possible in this case as well. Secondly, we do not have to go beyond cities such as Bergen or Tromsø, where they have public waste collection, where they are at the forefront of innovation in waste collection and have good experience in this under the direction of the community. It's the reverse that plagued residents in over 140 municipalities last year, and that was also the result in Oslo, where we saw how clever it was that Heggelund's party, Right, got a private commercial operator to take over the waste collection throughout Oslo City. It gave a party for the city's rats throughout the winter, but it was miserable for the inhabitants and completely miserable for the employees, who were driven by robbery, and so as a municipality we had to go in and take over – fortunately. It's done, and now it's doing so much better.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1471	It is quite correct that the city council of Red so eagerly supported in Oslo, handled the garbage scandal in an incredibly poor way. To make it look like everything's perfect when it's the public that controls everything, is probably an exaggeration, to say it carefully. My question was more fundamental. It was about the Moxnes representative's planned economic dream. Then he chooses to refer to two cities in a market economy, Bergen and Tromsø. This is not a planned economic system. So I wonder, what examples of good environmental technology has Moxnes developed in a socialist planning economy, for which he is involved in the Storting and fighting for?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1478	Firstly, fortunately, there are socialist elements in Norway in 2018. These are, of course, parts of the economy where the left-hand side and the trade union movement have been able to fight for effective Community solutions, which provide innovation and which provide better services for both users and, in particular, employees in services, including public waste collection in a number of Norwegian municipalities. And then we want a socialist Norway – that’s our goal – where we rule the entire society democratically, not just what is currently run by the public sector, but that we also have democracy in the economy. I am absolutely sure that democracy as a model is more effective and better than allowing private special interests to determine development. I think that will also be good for Norway, even though part of our economy today is fortunately within public governance and control.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1485	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1490	I want to start by thanking the Committee for a comprehensive and thorough work. There are a lot of proposals, and I think the message got better through the process and the job that the committee has done. I also believe that, after the committee's examination, we can conclude that although there are many proposals, there is a broad consensus on the main lines of Norwegian waste policy. I'm glad. We have a modern and well-developed waste policy in Norway. Wastes are widely involved, and this treatment is also shown. The waste industry is a significant and important part of Norwegian business, and there are many, sometimes cross-cutting, interests related to waste. This is because waste – I have to say at last – is seen as a resource and not a problem. Many see opportunities to create new values of waste, and it's a positive development we're going to continue towards a more circular economy, which many have already experienced. What has created the most involvement in the processing of the message is partly things that the message does not concern itself with, or that more of which is desired. It's a challenge I'm taking as a state council. The Committee's configuration addresses a number of themes, but some point more and more forward than others. The Committee is concerned about the circular economy, and so is the government. In the Jeløya government platform, we have set the goal of Norway becoming a leading country in the circular economy. Circular economy today is much about waste – preventing waste from occurring, extracting resources from waste and ensuring good management of waste. Norwegian waste policy follows up EU circular economic packages from both 2015 and 2018, but the circular economy is much more than waste. This challenge exacerbates the boundaries of environmental policy and also challenges industrial policy. It includes resource use in different industries and calls for a national promise. So the circular economy is definitely something we have to work closely with in the years to come, and we need to develop a set of tools to become the predecessor we want, and as I feel the Storting wants, by a broad majority. Norway has taken a leading role internationally in UN decisions to prevent marine pollution from plastics and the spread of microplastics. In the United Nations Environment Assembly, my predecessor, Vidar Helgesen, got right before Christmas through that we're going to have a zero vision for the accumulation of plastic in the oceans. This must be followed up with concrete action internationally. I would like to stress that we also need to work regionally – through the OSPAR, through Arctic Councils, and there are also other places where we need to have an active role. I will continue to have a high profile in this work, and the government is aware that we need to go ahead with an ambitious national policy. We are now assessing producer responsibility for equipment from the fishing and farming industries, including packaging, which means that producers are given responsibility for the products all the way, even when the products become waste. We also have in this case a follow-up to what Stortinget has previously asked for: an action plan against microplastics. We are now preparing a regulation to reduce the release of microplastics from artificial lawns and marinas. This is a mission that the Environment Directorate has been given, and then with the hope of following up on what is the Storting decision today, that we should have a regulation in place by 1 January next year. We've done a lot to start the job of combating marine pollution in Norway. We have 65 million in the year. NOK but with a possible allocation up to 80 million. For cleaning up along the coast. As was pointed out earlier, it was probably 49,000 volunteers last year who participated in beach clearance. It's almost now that you can't mobilize more, and you need enough to professionalize the work on cleaning up more in the years to come. We've had "Fishing for Liter" as a trial project. It is now replaced by a more permanent solution. And as I said, we now have an action plan for microplastics, which must be followed up in the years ahead. In the case of hazardous waste, it is essential that it be collected and handled properly. Increased recovery of hazardous waste has not been the subject of this Communication. However, the government is in favour of increasing the recycling or resource use of hazardous waste that can occur without further spreading of substances harmful to the environment. And in the Jeløya platform, we've said that we're going to draw up a plan to limit the amount of hazardous waste. Plastic is central when we talk about marine sterilization, not least because plastic is breaking down slowly, and it breaks down into microplastics. Plastic is also central to a circular economy, both because there is so much plastic, and because a large part of the greenhouse gas emissions from plastics occur at the first time. This is why the EU has created its own plastic strategy, such as: secondary plastic materials of stable quantity and good quality shall be produced and marine littering and application of microplastics shall be reduced. An important start is the sorting of plastics from other waste and the recycling of materials. We have therefore already asked the Directorate-General for the Environment to propose ways of imposing requirements on the sorting and recycling of plastics and food waste, and also to assess whether similar requirements should be imposed on other parts of our waste. Waste prevention is making even better use of resources. We are now in the initial phase of preventing waste from textiles, and there has already been a great deal of new work to reduce food waste. An overall food industry, together with five government councils this summer, has signed a voluntary and binding agreement to halve food waste by 2030, in line with the UN's sustainability target. The agreement includes all sections, not only the food industry and the food industry. Food waste is on its way down to Norway. Companies have undertaken to monitor and report food waste and to donate surplus food to food centres and charities. The industry agreement has been considered a very successful step in bringing about lasting changes to this serious problem. The government has previously issued a food law. I believe the agreement with the industry should be allowed to work for a while before considering new instruments. Several have addressed pollutants in different products. I would like to mention that EU chemicals legislation, REACH, is the world's foremost. And I really believe that the most effective thing we can do is be active in order to get bans within the EU system and REACH. In the Jeloya platform, however, we agree to step up efforts to phase out priority pollutants, and we want to create an action plan for a non-toxic everyday life. So this work has to be continued. I want to add that in this, it is also important to give people the opportunity to find the environmentally friendly options. Strengthening eco-labelling schemes is important, such as: The swan, which we do this year, and also probably did last year. There has been a rather large percentage increase, and although this is small sums in the big government budget, I think it is important to do so in the years to come. Several have also been in biogas. Biogas has been an area of activity in the budget units in recent years. We have an aid scheme of 20 million. kr organised by Innovation Norway. While they are struggling to have more projects, the most important thing to do is to create a larger market for biogas by making biogas competitive in relation to natural gas by introducing a user charge on natural gas. And the efforts and support that we have directed towards public transport, including: In Trondheim, a market has been put in place, which needs to be built up in order to put in place measures, as well as the support schemes we have, both the Eco-Tech System and Enova. I will end by saying that I think it has been a good debate. It's impressive how the committee worked on the notification.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1528	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1533	I am very pleased when I hear the Council of State say that he wants Norway to become a leading country in the circular economy. It's supported. Our problem is that we are at the back of the queue per day – perhaps not at the back of the queue, but we are very poor in relation to ambitious countries such as the United States. The Netherlands, which has really boosted ambition and action in the EU. In competition with the Nordic countries, we are not very good either. But we have a huge potential for becoming a country of choice. At least I appreciate the fact that the Council of State will work quickly to get to Stortinget with a strategy, with good measures adapted to the economic development we need, because business is very impatient. So I just want to hear what the Council of State has to say about when the government sees it possible to get back to Stortinget with such a strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1540	Now I probably don't agree that we're at the back, I think we're good at waste management in Norway. But that there are countries that are still ahead of us on a comprehensive strategy, which also includes a circular economy, I think is right. Just when we're going to come back, I don't think I'm going to give you any time for, because there's one thing I think is important about this, is having a thoroughness, and the quality of what we're presenting is more important than just when it comes. With regard to where we are now, I think it is important that we now adopt what is in this waste notification, so that we get to work on the proposals and measures that lie here, and then we have to develop a circular economy strategy, which goes far beyond what is involved in waste management. It has to deal with the processes that are also taking place within the EU, and then we have to put our own strategy into practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1550	The EU has set itself a number of objectives, and the Council of State was concerned with hazardous waste. The Council of State said that we must have increased material recycling there as well, and I fully agree with that. The technological drivers handling hazardous waste today say that we can already reach 25-30 pst. recovery of hazardous waste. The EU has those objectives. Then it is interesting to hear if the government councils and parties can participate in the proposal that we have put forward today in Stortinget, to demand 25-30 pst. recovery, as the EU has done. Why should we wait?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1555	The most important thing about hazardous waste is to handle it properly. There could also be different definitions of hazardous waste over time. But the most important thing is to prevent it from happening, and to deal with what is, right. What we've been in favour of, that is, what's on the Jeløya platform, is we're going to look at a plan to reduce the amount of hazardous waste, and we're going to follow that up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1560	I was interested to hear an answer to a specific question. I asked questions about whether the Council of State would be involved in being entirely specific in terms of the objective of recycling hazardous waste. The economic operators themselves say that 25-30 pst. is technologically soluble both in the case of fly ash and acid, which are the two most important components available today in view of what is defined as hazardous waste. So I'm really asking the question again: is the Council of State interested in being involved in setting a little more ambitious goals? They can't be too ambitious when you can deliver within this already today?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1565	In the case of fly ash, we've said that we should be able to look at it. There is probably also a proposal on the matter. But I haven't found any places – it's about having a claim in Switzerland, but we don't really know how it's actually done, as it is now. In the case of sulphuric acid, it's largely about Kronos Titan. Solutions are available in different parts of Europe, with demands to manage them at the plant where businesses are located. But then there are also other issues, both with CO 2 emissions and dust, and there are other issues that come with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1573	In the newspaper we can read with pleasure that in 2018 the government will demand that anyone who is supported to build new, or build existing, biogas plants based on food waste should facilitate the reception of manure. This proposal seems to be very familiar to the Central Party. Is it true, as the Council of State says, that these are the government's proposals? As far as I am aware, this is not a proposal which was originally contained in the waste notification, but which came under the committee process of the waste notification. And as far as I remember, it was the proposal of the Center Party. Is it the case that the Council of State and the Government fully agree with the Central Party that we need a more offensive policy on biogas, which can also help to make it competitive?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1578	In my post, I talked about what I think the bourgeois majority has done to make biogas more competitive. We have been doing this for several years, both through a support scheme, but above all by making the biogas competitive against natural gas so that the charging system works for us, and that it is biogas that comes in and not natural gas. The most important part of this is I think the work done against the collective effort, especially towards the big cities. But it is true that we also want to look at and use manure in production, that it is both important and right that we make provision for it, and that it is necessary to have manure in biogas production in order to have public support for new projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1585	In connection with some road construction, we have seen a large amount of plastic waste used in blasting. In connection with the construction of Ryfast in Rogaland, the problem was so great that the current representative from the Left, Iselin Nybø, raised the matter with Minister for Climate and Environment Vidar Helgesen in the Question Time on 15 February 2017. Nybø pointed out that in the course of the expansion a lot of plastic had been dumped in the sea. People living along the coast picked up the carrier bag after carrying a plastic bag, the birds built rows of plastic instead of seaweed, and Nybø showed that the County of Rogaland was clear that no plastic emissions would be accepted in connection with the dumping of the bulk in the future. So my question to the Council of State is: why won't the Left today support the SV's proposal to ask the government to issue a ban on the use of plastic reinforcement in road construction?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1592	It's a mission for the Environment Directorate now. They look at the measures we need to take to limit plastics in filling masses, and then they will come back with proposals for action.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1597	Until this communication, the blue-blue government has basically drawn its legs in the circular economic policy, under the cover of waste policy. The message was submitted too late and was completely empty for content. But this great treatment we have had has given many good decisions and a clear marshalling ground to the government. Governments pointed out in their intervention, quite correctly, that waste policy in many ways is closely linked to industrial policy and perhaps even more about industrial policy than just waste. Researchers have indicated that what is needed in the future is a systematic effort to stimulate and trigger green innovations of greater breadth than what we have been given here – things like profit model innovation, network innovation, structural innovation, process innovation, service innovation and channel innovation, etc. Can the Council confirm that this will be the start of a shift in pace in the Norwegian circular economy, with high ambitions for innovation in green business?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1604	As I said before, I think it is important now to make decisions on this message, so that we get started on the further work and the orders given here. So today's government has given itself a marshaller, precisely on the basis of the agreement on Jeløya, and said that we're going to become a precursor country in the circular economy. It is clear that there is extensive work, and there is also a lot of work to be done on how to define this. But this is something we have to work on, closely with business, in the years to come to clarify what is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1618	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1623	Energy use of waste replaces the use of oil, gas and electricity for heating while at the same time removing health and environmental pollutants from the cycle. By facilitating the increased use of biogas, we will be able to contribute to achieving the target of looking at waste as a resource, while at the same time meeting our commitments to significantly reduce emissions in the non-quota sector by 2030. Wet organic waste is an important raw material based on manure. It is a cost-effective and important contribution to reducing greenhouse gas emissions and to making good use of both food waste and manure. And as has been said several times in the discussion now, it is important to facilitate this through the development of infrastructure and various forms of stimulus for its use, for example. in the heavy industry and in the case of agricultural machinery. However, waste incineration for energy supply is also an emission source and in 2016 0.9 million was emitted. tonnes of CO 2 from combustion and waste landfills accounted for 1 million. tonnes of CO 2 equivalent. The emissions from waste landfills amounted to 2 pst in 2016. of the national greenhouse gas emissions. The largest greenhouse gas emissions from waste are methane from waste landfills and CO 2 from the incineration of waste. The government’s climate strategy warned that the government will introduce the pricing of greenhouse gas emissions also from waste incineration plants and that it will be considered to introduce a CO 2 tax for the overall level of greenhouse gas emissions from the incineration of waste. Furthermore, the Government proposes to consider including emissions from waste incineration in the European allowance system at company level and to continue to work on the inclusion of waste incineration plants in the EU allowance system or the introduction of CO 2 tax. Both the levy and the allowance obligation will set a price for CO 2 emissions from waste incineration. This pricing is important and appropriate to reflect the climate cost of burning fossil-carbon waste. This will make it profitable to limit the amount of waste and to manage it in another way, including: through enhanced material recovery, which is a key element of the circular economy. There is work going on to capture CO 2 also in waste incineration – not least at the central site of Klemetsrud in Oslo. The test facility for CO 2 capture at the energy recovery facility on Klemetsrud started in 2016 and this is the first time CO 2 is captured from an energy recovery facility for waste. The plant is one of the largest land-based industrial holdings in the East and a large point emissions of CO 2 with annual emissions of 400000 tonnes of CO 2 in 2017. Carbon capture and subsequent carbon capture and storage will be an important measure that can significantly reduce emissions from the waste sector. It is therefore important to follow up what has been said in the Jeløia Government Declaration that the government will present a comprehensive assessment of full scale CO 2 management to the Stortinget at the latest in the context of the revised national budget for 2018. The Committee, in a majority’s view, stressed that, in the context of the overall assessment, a separate case should be promoted for the Stortinget rather than as an orientation in the revised national budget. The majority of the Committee therefore asks the Government to ‘present the proposal for the financing model for carbon capture and storage as a separate matter to the Stortinge, so that it can be addressed in the Stortinge during the spring 2018 session’. This is also important in this context, in its efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. I want to use my last seconds for a little reflection on the exchange between representatives Heggelund and Moxnes – or, as it is now called, between comrade Moxnes and comrade Heggelund – who discussed the waste scandal we have seen in Oslo. Then it is time to remember that it was the outgoing city council that left a delegation to the current red-green city council with the outsourcing of the private and the matter we got around Weireno. It is therefore relatively free to say that the resulting management was a product of the efforts of the City Council. So it was an inheritance from a city council that, among other things, Heggelund's party was part of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1677	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1682	At the National Labour Party's meeting in 2015, Thorbjørn Berntsen was appointed an honorary member of the Workers' Party – the man who was born in the poor society, who joined the Akers Mek. trade union and who became one of our most insidious political figures. He is the father of the Working Environment Act and Norway's longest-standing environmental protection minister. When, in his powerful speech to the National Assembly of the Workers' Party, he was going to talk about what he was most proud of, he came to the waste policy. So powerful was his talk about the importance of waste policy for the climate and the exploitation of earth's resources that the pulpit was literally broken. The work he put down in the 1990s, and his waste notification, which was the only one until then, left the basis for the policy we have pursued in the last 20 years. Now we have to be just as clear-minded to get a policy for the future. We have to be able to take the political measures that are necessary. That is why the big expectations for the big message we are dealing with today were high. It was supposed to be a communication about the circular economy, where everything taken out of resources is to be recovered. It was not just about waste, but about the whole way we live. Unfortunately, the message does not respond to expectations. It's a nice description of the system, but it shows few new, necessary political grips, and it's just to say: this is not a circular economy message, but a waste notification. When the government's figures here in the debate are challenged as to what they can point out by the circular economy in the communication, they show that a new strategy is to come. It's a good strategy, but that's what we asked when we asked for this big message, which we're now dealing with. But some grips take the bulk of the population today. One of the areas we know we have to work with is that we have to use today's resources on an ever-increasing population. One of the most obvious things is that we can't throw food. Today, more than 360 000 tonnes of edible food are being discarded — food that could satisfy almost a million people. Preventing food waste must meet on many fronts. It is good that the industry itself takes hold. All the grips that are being taken, there's every reason to cheer up. Nevertheless, we believe that there is reason to take new steps, and we are pleased that today there will be a majority for a food law, which ensures that all food surplus from the food industry, i.e. the food trade, should not be thrown, but eaten or used as animal feed. This is a decision that the Stortinget has all taken, for which the Christian People's Party was impressed in the last period, but which was only put in a disappointment by the government. That's why we're doing it again today. We all hear the counter-conceptions, and we agree that there are some dilemmas, but it is not a finished law we are dealing with today – no, that job is starting now. But because the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have not shown their will, the climate minister and the government are today being overrun – instructed by the majority of the population to submit proposals for a food law to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1693	It delights me to discuss the waste notification, this because the Storting and the opposition in another field are taking a grip and a step in the right direction for a more circular society. Both the reduction, recovery and reuse of waste are mentioned. It's also interesting to read that the government focuses on the need for knowledge, but then only around marine litter. The challenges are much bigger if we're going to be able to be circular. If the resources we have available are to be used, even if their original use has expired, we need to make more changes and acquire more knowledge. In Norway, municipalities are responsible for the collection and treatment of household waste. Several good sorting facilities are in place, but what about recovery facilities? The material is transported land and beach around to be recycled, redisposed and used again. More of this we must be able to do here to land. This will provide Norwegian jobs, technology development – all provided from our renewable energy sources. This is a field where we can help drive the evolution of the world forward at a faster pace. We're obliged to achieve 50 pst. material recovery of household and similar commercial waste by 2020. The waste must then be considered as an input and resource. Several waste types have a high degree of material recovery and established markets for recycled raw material, such as: metals. For other types of waste, such as plastics, greater efforts are needed by the authorities. The Environment Directorate says that 20 pst has gone by. of plastics from households and at the base of 40 pst. from business, is recovered. Calculations show that the level of material recovery can be increased to close to 65 pst. in 2030. The most important step is to increase recycling by ensuring that plastic is sorted out and that we have a market for recycling and consumption of recycled plastic. We must prevent the waste, but also take responsibility when the waste has arisen. The opposition takes seriously the challenges of the resource use we have. We are pleased with the responsibility for municipalities, investment grants for Enova, and that we can look further at requirements for the use of recycled materials in public construction projects – and not to forget international work for the development of infrastructure and waste management and against just plastic pollution. In the long term, this can be a moon landing – a small step for man, a great step for mankind.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1706	It is a general national and international concern that the sea is filled with plastic and garbage. This is a topic of discussion among all the sea states meeting for discussion and debate, including the following: in the UN. Now that Norway is applying for a place in the Security Council, our international – and national – commitment to the sea will be crucial to our candidacy. Therefore, it is important that we take responsibility for the challenges that may exist. Plastic in the sea is definitely one of the major concerns. We have to face even more knowledge developments about the impact of plastic pollution on marine life. But the most important thing now in today's debate is to look at the tools and opportunities that you have in the short and long term. At present, the members of the Committee from SV, MDG and the Workers' Party indicate that a large proportion of the waste in northern waters has been wasted from ships. Here we stand out from the rest of the world. The normal thing is that most of the waste comes from land – wind at sea. Therefore, the same members request that ships in northern waters report their waste and ensure that it is delivered ashore, and last but not least that it is controlled. There is already a reporting system today, through EMSA, but port control in Norway is not using this much. The Maritime Directorate should – and may – be required to ensure that reporting is carried out and, where appropriate, to check during ship checks. Furthermore, I would like to refer to another proposal that is in the setting, from the Centre Party, the MDG and the Workers' Party, where we ask the government to explore the possibility that available resources from the offshore sector will be able to identify – where appropriate, developing – technology to clean up plastic/spray from the seabed in a biologically sound manner. This is to use the tools we have, and something that could become a win-win situation for the offshore companies as well. This is using the political possibilities we have. So I'm going to use the last 20 seconds to respond to the claim of the representative – the comrade – Halleland. He says that it is not important to clear at Norwegian beaches. I want to remind you that May 5 is the next national beach cleaning day, and the beach cleaning week from April 30th to May 6th, I get back in a later article in today's debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1719	Growth is not to consume more, but to manage better – a good old motto when we talk about circular economy. There is no doubt that we have for too long laid the foundation of a use-and-cast mentality for our society and, not least, for our respective lives. Unfortunately, in my view, the message lacks that perspective. It delivers well on the waste management itself, but not on how the waste mountain itself arises. ‘Recognition’ and ‘accommodation’ are words of honor, which unfortunately are used less frequently. They should perhaps have been used in the message and not only here in the house, but also as a means of reducing the waste, because in these words there is a clear signal about the value of it to take care of, to repair and to use up before we throw and get ourselves new. Using waste as a resource is a good economy for individuals, industry and society. On the other hand, we need clear goals and measures to be able to move from a use-and-throat society to a more circular cycle. Finally, it is about our own position, the personal responsibility, which, according to the view of the Centre Party, is sub-communicated in the notification. Legislation, reporting and bureaucracy often show political action, but the important thing is to change the consumption patterns of individuals. So the circular economy is about far more than sorting our household waste. It's about how we produce products, what products we buy, and what values we care about. How do we organise a white and legal sharing economy in the future? How do we set quality requirements for the flat screen that is purchased? And, not least, how do we increase the lifetime of e.g. Smart phones? I once heard that every iPhone we buy generates 7 kilos of waste, a product with an average lifetime of – should I tip – two–three years, and where repairs are both expensive and difficult. I am therefore pleased that the majority is asking the government ‘to review the instrument and adapt it to the circular economy’. I think the solution for better management is here, but then it also has to be followed up with a private change of attitude, where each of us sees the advantage of repair, of spending and taking care of, rather than buying and throwing. This message brings us some steps on the way, but does not address the fundamentals, namely the philosophy on which our growth society is built.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1732	For those of us who are future optimists, and who have an unmistakable belief that the world is going forward and not backwards, it is not so rare to get such a "little in the middle of the face" and be disappointed. Last week I was once again disappointed and realistic about plastics. Then there was a report from Eastfold research that shows that degradable plastics and bioplastics are not the way to go. So-called degradable plastic consists of oil and ends up in nature as microplastics. But neither is bioplastic the solution to the plastic problem. There are poor labelling schemes for bioplastics, and what we know as bioplastics today is also 30 pst.–70 pst. oil. The conclusion of the whole thing is that what's crucial is to prevent plastic from getting into nature. That's the only way we can prevent four out of five blueshells along the coast from containing plastic, that our drinking water contains plastic, and that it's soon more plastic than fish in the sea. We have to prevent plastic from getting into nature. It is therefore particularly sad that there is no majority here today to ask the government to ‘introduce a target to phase out and prohibit the production and use of some disposable plastic articles in Norway by 2022’. It's particularly sad because the Christian People's Party cannot help prevent plastic from coming into the creation, which we should embrace. And it's also very special that it says in the setting on page 24 that a unanimous collapse has adopted a ban on microplastics in cosmetics. It's directly wrong. In May 2016, a unanimous growing-up asked the government to come up with a case about this. The government has twice said to me in response to written questions – first the former state councillor Helgesen and then the state councillor Elvesuen – that they should not do this. So there is no ban on microplastics today. And it's not just useful to work internationally in this area. When Stortinget has asked for a ban on microplastics, it is the government's duty to respond to this. And at least it is extremely inconceivable that it stands in the position that a ban has been adopted when it is not. We are still waiting for Stortinget to have its case on a ban on microplastics, which Stortinget unanimously adopted in May 2016.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1743	In addition to the waste notification and its suspension, we are currently considering a proposal from the MDG to make the circular economy a key solution for the management of hazardous waste in Norway. In this case, we have had a joyful impact in order to investigate instructions for cleaning fly ash, but we have not been able to make any progress in getting knowledge of alternatives to landfill before deciding on location. But today we also received – a little surprising – a loose proposal from the Workers' Party, which goes on this matter, and that we will investigate further. I am left with a question after we have been dealing with our representative proposal for many months: what will the Workers' Party actually do about us risk binding this industry into old-fashioned landfill technology for many decades to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1750	The representative Stoknes of the Greens consistently refers to the government of Solberg II as a blue-grey government. That's what the left has to do to shame. We have time for that. But the Jelaua statement shows that the Left has already had a lot of green penetration. So this is a little bit about practice, too, because now it's been a review of the Nordics' eating habits. Indeed, MDG’s slogan through some election campaigns has been to introduce meat-free Mondays in municipal institutions and also in Norwegian homes. Now the review shows that the Norwegian people are actually quite circular, because Monday is the rest of the day. So the thumbs up to the Norwegian people – they act more sustainable than that! I'm not afraid we won't be able to put a green mark on the government. It is also nice that Tuesday is the fishing day. So there are two good days in green environmental policy also on the way to the circular. I actually took the floor because the representative Espen Barth Eide took some new dimensions in the debate, especially on CO2 capture and strategy. Then we are also about to discuss: who is going to do the job? When household waste is as municipal as it is today, we cannot help but discuss the structure and organisation of that part of the waste sector. There is little mention of the fact that the Committee is taking a rather important step in imposing phosphorus recovery on one of the proposals for which there is a majority today. In Norway, we have 2,650 sewage treatment plants, and most of them are municipal, while we have only 50 biogas plants, and not all of them are also based on wastewater. There is a great opportunity here to take advantage of what has already been organised and collected and to build larger facilities. Oslo should have taken a debate on whether to build on the pool rather than to expand the VEAS, but enough about it. Perhaps it would have been more efficient to build some pipelines rather than to build a whole new facility. That's also the pipeline we have to discuss: where are they going? Then we also have to ask the question whether manure fits into all of these plants, or whether Near gas and others are now developing technology that allows us to build small farms in containers that do the same job without having to transport manure to such an extent. The phosphorus is important to recover, and some Norwegian businesses are about to take that technology change. They have also previously developed, with municipal capital, world-leading biogas plants. But the municipalities are the challenge here -- they don't have that much capital.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1761	As I said in a previous post, it was the representative of Halleland who inspired me to take the floor again. He used in his post the word insignificant about picking garbage and plastic on beaches. I don't have the latest figures, which the Council of State certainly has, but I have the 2013 figures: 300 kilometers of beaches cleared, 116 tons of maritime waste removed from the beaches, and 16,000 volunteer hours laid down. The 2013 figures were 10,000 volunteers. Many of them are children and young people who are committed to clearing our beaches, who are committed to the way life in the sea is. Then I think it is with respect to report that the representative Halleland should explain whether he really believes that the efforts of Norwegian children and young people and some adults are insignificant.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1767	Sometimes it's good that we have written articles, so we see what the mouth says. If the representative has a great wish to misunderstand, she will of course be allowed to do so, but I would like to clarify a little bit. Just to repeat what was said from here: I think I was very clear that plastic pollution is one of the biggest challenges we're facing. My concern, in my speech, was that if we're going to be able to get rid of the pollution, we have to focus on the source, put in the impact and use the resources to prevent us from getting the plastic pollution we're getting today. Then we experience that we get a Workers' Party that wants to use the offshore, open offshore, and an unknown number of millions to look for and pick up plastic in the world's oceans. That is when the Progress Party calls for at least as many millions to be spent, but we want to use those resources on land, where we see and know that the sources of emissions are. The party supports and praises those who walk along the beaches and clear. It hasn't even been expressed from here that we don't support that work. I really hope that the Workers' Party will now be involved in taking the emission sources, and not be so preoccupied with clearing that they forget completely where the mess comes from.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1774	I have read the setting with interest and think it is initially very good. It addresses important issues of industry and value creation and the conservation of resources and their preservation in the value chain. It's important for future policy. But some aspects of waste policy arouse emotions, discussions and not least involvement. One of those themes is hazardous waste. One of the issues that is a problem here, and on which the government may not have responded well enough in the Storing Communication, is precisely the issue of hazardous waste. As it looks now, there are two points that point out as possible landfill areas. One is in More and Romesdal, the other in Telemark, Nesset and Brevik, respectively. Both have been discussed - a very serious problem. What worries me is that the government has not taken the issue seriously – because they have not. They do not respond in the big message to how they think about this, nor do they have any obvious plans for how they want to handle it. It worries me. So I see in the setting especially one good suggestion. In its resolution XII, the majority of the Committee, which is not a majority in the European Parliament, asks for a comprehensive strategy for the management of hazardous waste in Norway, which sets out how the objectives can be achieved, what requirements can be made for safe solutions, and criteria for increased recycling of hazardous waste. So the Christian People's Party – may look like – is against, and the government parties are against. Understand the one who can. Wouldn't it be right to put in place a strategy? Would it not have been appropriate to find safe solutions on how to deal with it, and not least criteria for increasing the recovery of hazardous waste? It would be interesting to hear the Minister for Climate and Environment answer how he thinks about that proposal, how he sees a minimization of hazardous waste and a reduction in the need for landfill in the future. It's a pretty substantial question, which has not been answered. The Council of State should answer that question. The second is the proposal which has been promoted as a loose proposal by the Labour Party today, proposal No. 46, on how to make maximum use of the opportunities in Lang Island. Is it possible to use the property on Lang Island any longer? I don't know what the government's attitude to it is, but at least I want to challenge it. It should be expected that the former representative of the big business Elvesuen was very positive about those proposals, but as Minister for Climate Change and the Environment, it may be a bit more difficult to be positive about it. I would nevertheless ask the Council of State to reflect a little bit about the two proposals and their importance in dealing with hazardous waste, which is perhaps one of the most emotional issues in this matter, and which is initially not mentioned by the government in the big news.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1787	Although we are able to reduce the amount of hazardous waste, there will be a need to have landfills for hazardous waste in the future as well, and there is a separate process of how it will be handled in the future. Otherwise, I am dealing with both what is on the Jeløya platform and what is also being proposed here, that we have to have a plan to reduce the amount of hazardous waste in the years to come. So we're going to look at how we're going to reduce the amount of hazardous waste. Then I took the floor because the representative August, it was well, talked about that the majority is now running over the Right, the Advance Party and the Left in the matter of food cast. Then I have to say that there is not something I know overrun. Here it's exactly a government that's offensive to reduce the amount of food waste. We're definitely going to achieve that sustainability goal of reducing food waste by 50 pst. towards 2030. It is already the case that from 2010 to 2015 it was reduced in Norway by 12 pst. It's been reduced by another 4 pst. The following year, and with an industry agreement, we're going to achieve the goal of reducing by 50 pst. towards 2030. Then it's not about being against a food law and the purpose of it, it's about really just complicates the work when we have to use resources on it, too, instead of focusing on what's the point, which is to reduce food throwing in Norway and reach the sustainability goal. Here, in fact, I believe that it is the government that is more offensive than the majority of the Stortinget. It also mentioned the prohibition of microplastics in body care products. It is a proposal for a representative, which I myself put forward in due course, and it is right that it was unanimously adopted. My attitude is definitely that we should have microplastics away from body care products, but it's also about what's the right way to go. Now there is a process within the EU and the EU Chemicals Directive REACH, where it is working on this, also to see if there can be restrictions on microplastics in body care products, and then I will look at what it means before we get back to the Storting properly. Measures to reduce the use of disposables are also included. The EU Commission also looks at introducing measures to reduce the use of disposable plastic articles. If they do, we'll be covered by it. I think it's right to wait and look at it, but that doesn't mean we can't have our own initiative in addition to reducing its use.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1796	There was a direct challenge to the Christian People's Party where we were challenged on individual plastic articles. There are representatives who make a comment that the evidence of an environmental exposure should be that one comes with stronger demands on more detailed proposals in the Stortinget. But if that is the evidence, why should one just say ‘some plastic articles’ in the proposal in which the batch of workers is placed? Then why just say 2022? You may want to correct that problem correctly. The proposal in which the Christian People's Party has chosen to stand is that we assume that we are now making common rules with the neighbouring countries around us, and starting a parallel process in Norway about what kind of articles should then be prohibited is a double work. Rather, what we have to do is look at other measures in addition to what can fill that ban, whether it is an industry agreement or a user of our charging system. But it's about taking over the fact that one is in those processes. And then I think that those who have followed the debate in Stortinget now know that if the Christian People's Party is not satisfied with the measures that will come, we can do as we have done with both food law and climate law. But there's something about being able to stand in the processes that are, and taking things in the right order. It is also a question of hazardous waste, which the Labour Party today makes a proposal, at 5 p.m. 8.20, which comes over the table, after we have negotiated and gone through long processes in the Committee on these proposals. I want a debate where we can stand in the processes that are, and where we all take the aim of being a responsible governing party. At least I hope I can contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1803	I am very pleased that we in the committee agree on a great deal on this matter, and I think so to the extent of the debate. That's great. But when the Workers' Party's representative from Telemark goes to the pulpit and first talks about the reduction of hazardous waste, for which everyone in this room is in favour, in order to propose to flood Westfold with hazardous waste, I can't completely humiliate myself. I tried to get an answer from the Workers' Party in the reply, but I did not get it. Hazardous waste and landfill are a very difficult matter, especially for those of us who live in Westfold and Telemark, who are also soon to become one region. The government has been in close dialogue with several actors in the case. We know that from this area, well to, and it's been at a thorough hearing, so I think it's going to be a little bit special then to say that the government doesn't relate to it, because it does it the most. But the Workers' Party is continuing to do so. The trade unions are for Brevik, Jonas Gahr Støre has been in a conflict with just this case, and we still get no answer to the question. There is a great deal of uncertainty about what the Workers' Party really means, so I try again. The working party proposes in a loose proposal today to fill the landfill in Holmestrand, which is already full. The question then is: how does the Workers' Party perceive that we, who are from Westfold, are going to deal with the fact that they want to fill the landfill in Holmestrand, and where do they want to locate new landfill? For the time being, I have not received an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1812	Just for the last speaker: I am mildly surprised at the entrance. Overfilling the Lang Island nobody's talking about it. One talks about the possibilities of taking action now that you can take advantage of the Lang Island for a longer period of time than what has been estimated in the case, to 2022. It is not to overfill Westfold with hazardous waste. The problem is that it is demanding to establish a new landfill, and it may also be demanding to do so within the time horizon that lies there. It would make sense for the Storting to say now that a person wants to look at the possibilities of minimising the need for landfill up to a possible need to find a new site for landfill, while also basing a new landfill on the limited need for hazardous waste and landfill. That's the background. It's not very complicated, and it's really a little unnatural that the Storting doesn't actually actually agree ends up about it. It's not to wing at all, it's actually to be able to use the capacity that's already there today, and that, after what I understand, is also going to be there – if it's NOAH that's going to drive this further – with, among other things. hazardous waste processing plants on the island of Lang Island. So it's quite natural to evaluate it. What is surprising is that the Council of State will not consider it – that he is not already looking at and considering measures to expand the time horizon for the island of Lang Island. It's surprising. He actually rejects that, because he minimizes and says that there is a need for a landfill anyway. Yes, of course it is, but that's not the question. The question is about the government, with the government council at the head, is willing to look at the possibilities of extending the working time on Lang Island something, just to get a better process linked to a new landfill. He has not responded to that, and I hope the Council of State can answer that. Because it is time to ask that question, as a lot of people have observed the former depositor Elvesuen – I’m not going to put too much into it – just stand under the banner with no toxin and mark it very clearly. Then I would expect that there was also a clear input into how to deal with such a sensitive issue as this with hazardous waste. So I ask again and hope I can get an answer: Does the Council of State think it is right to look at the possibilities of taking action now, so that one can possibly extend the deadline for the property on Langøya something? Or will it be unnatural, as the government considers it?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1823	It was a little cold when we got into the hall today, but we started to get the temperature up, both politically and – I was going to say – physically. What is interesting is that it is circular economy and hazardous waste that obviously creates the most activity in this debate. Now we've been going on for a long time, and we're going to the end, but I think it's important to say that we've worked well with the entire committee on this, and I think we've lifted the message, after it came in June, but we have a job to do to get the government to actually deliver on the proposals we're now getting adopted when we're done today. What's important to say about hazardous waste is that we in the Workers' Party want to have a comprehensive strategy for this, where we can impose stricter requirements, where we can show that we want more circular economy in that system, where we can show that we have better solutions in the future that make neighbours, people and nature not need to suffer from the systems that are like it today, maybe something old-fashioned. The Council of State has a challenge that Langøya is full in 2022, as we have received an answer in letters from the Council of State. And that's what our concern is, that things might not be in place for 2022. How, then, can we possibly prevent us from getting into a difficult situation? It is the responsibility of the Council of State, but the Stortinget will be involved in pushing on and helping to find a good solution. I think that's what must be the signal from here, and then it's the precautionary principle that applies, because when it's full there, and if the industry is still going to have a place to make this waste, we have to have a solution, and it's challenging. There's a lot of activity around the areas, the two places, that's still up to date. There's a lot of anxiety and a lot of fear. At the same time, I think there are very ambitious industrial actors who want to find solutions, who want to create a landfill that will be safe, and who at the same time want to build up skills, research new solutions, and who have the faith that they will do it. So here it really is to be clear on demands and find solutions, so that people can be reassured that it's not so dangerous to have that waste, and maybe there's no more hazardous waste when it's in the landfill in 2022. We have to speed up the development that is possible here. And then I just want to say to Terje Halleland – comrade Halleland, what he's going under now – is that waste management on land is absolutely the most important thing, preventing the seas of plastic and waste is important, but we also have to clean up after us when we've really messed it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1840	Despite the high tabling on the outside of Storting today, I do not choose to use the comrade's term, but I could not help myself when I heard from the Council of State Elvesuen about food waste. Clearly, it's an important part of the waste problem, it's socio-economically very profitable to reduce food waste, and I think we're in complete agreement on that goal. Now that there is a majority of a food caste law, it is probably a consequence of seeing that the so-called industrial agreement is not being followed up by one party. I am very much in favour of business agreements, but it was actually just before the ink was dry, so the Ministry of Agriculture and Food cut support for both Matvett and Matsentralen, despite the fact that the agreement commits to helping to facilitate the donation of food in collaboration with the food industry. The cuts were correctly fixed in the autumn, as we remember, but the government signal was clear. Obviously, the state is not meant to be other than a professional contractor, while the food industry itself is going to take the entire bill to achieve its objectives. Matminister Dale has explicitly stated in the form of a letter to the Christian People's Party a few years ago that he is against state funding of, for example, food-centred. Then I wonder where the signal effect is, if we are to have cooperation between industry and the state in other areas in the future, if that is the case that the state is only a honorary party and does not take responsibility for itself. I know that the food industry entered into the agreement with enthusiasm, it shows results, but I also know that it is now pending that the state does not take its part in the responsibility. So I'm worried about the signal effect by the government praising industry agreements, but not with hard cash and instruments on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1849	To the last one: of course, the state should be a partner in an industry agreement, and food centres are now beyond the whole country. In Oslo, Bergen, Tromsø, Bodø and Trondheim and in Rogaland, in the South, in Telemark, Vestfold and Østfold there are – or they are coming – food centres. If the answer is that the state is not a good enough partner, is the answer to the industry that we have to make a law here? I don't think so. I don't think there's going to be any extra effect out of that law beyond what we're going to achieve anyway. It is clear that we are going to achieve the sustainability target, we are going to reduce food waste in Norway – not only because it is resource-depleting, but also because it is an important climate action – by 50 pst. towards 2030. I believe that then all parties must put the forces into that industry agreement and cooperate to get it done, and it is more appropriate than launching a legal text. Of course, if the Storting decides, we're going to follow it up. But it's not going to be the one that's going to be critical to the goal. We can do that with the measures we are in the process of doing. What I said, and the consensus of the government, is that we're going to draw up a plan to limit the amount of hazardous waste. So we have to see what the consequence of that is. I have no answer to that today. In the case of the landfill itself, there is a separate process and, of course, hazardous waste landfills in Norway should be safe. What this is about here is that you have a different process with the municipality in the case of Rådsand, and where the municipality is strongly opposed in Brevik. Now there are processes both places, but no decision has been made on how to proceed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1860	That being the case, the debate is on the agenda. Seven, eight, nine o'clock.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1876	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there should be a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up for the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1885	First of all, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in this matter. Despite political divisions, I see the members of the Committee as very tidy in the process, and I, as the rapporteur, would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute. Having said that, I would like to turn to the content of the draft representative, document 8:27 S, and Innst. 130 S. Since 1971, values for nearly 13 000 billion have been collected on Norwegian soil. kr. In other words, the support for our common well-being has been the activity on Norwegian pedestal. The reality of the proposal for a decision in the proposal for a representative is to put a foothold on the industry that has contributed to the society that we have today and to make it possible for everyone in our society. I understand the author of the proposal that we are going to phase out the petroleum industry much faster, and then we are going to use our common oil fund to finance a transition to other industries and new jobs. It is clear that the representative believes that we have so much milk in this country that we can safely shoot the cows. Fortunately, there is no majority to shoot cows here today, and fortunately we have a government that also shares the same opinion, that this cannot be said to be particularly clever. In the Jeløya platform, it is clearly anchored that the government will follow up an active search policy on Norwegian pedestal and continue to provide the industry with access to new search areas. This is essential to ensure high value creation and well-being in Norway. The negative consequences of ending the allocation of new land are many: Community revenue will fall dramatically, professional competence will disappear out of the country, and the space for action to invest in other energy sources will decrease. And the global emissions will rise. I will honestly admit that I understand the symbolic intention and conviction of the Green Party representative, and I also understand the long-term objectives set by the representative. Unfortunately, it is once again that reality must be given more weight than utopian symbolism policies. There is nothing wrong with the intention of the proposer to reduce global emissions. The problem is that this proposal will work against its purpose. Substituting Norwegian natural gas with coal, which is in most cases the option, helps to increase emissions rather than bring them down. Nor can it be said that removing what actually finances the investment in new renewable energy sources in Norway is a contribution to the climate. If you are also of the opinion that knowledge is the new oil – yes, that's where I interpret the representative of the Green Party – I understand little about a proposal that helps to send people with competence to raise the next generation out of the country. In summary, the substance of the proposal can be presented as follows: increased emissions, less money, flagging out competences. It is this that is the difference of intention and reality. We in the Progress Party want to continue to pursue an active policy on Norwegian soil by continuing to allocate new land and ensuring predictable framework conditions for the industry. It's not because we're of the opinion that we have oil and gas in infinity and believe it never ends. Nor is it because we do not want to reduce global greenhouse gas emissions. But once in a while, if, as a society, we have to cope with a green transformation, we can't remove the support that keeps our society up. There is no one in the world who will have a better everyday life ending the production of oil and gas on a Norwegian base. A certain man once told me the following: When one is going to cross open seas together, it is often better to build a bridge rather than bet on that everyone can swim. That message also stands today: Norwegian activity on the socket is through knowledge and value creation the bridge that will take us further into the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1906	Let me start by saying that I am proud of the Norwegian oil and gas industry. Let me continue to say that I am sure that Norwegian oil and gas production is important for Norway for many decades to come – also seen with optimism that we are going to achieve the Paris objectives. I am also proud that the Norwegian oil and gas industry is so clearly working actively to ensure that Norway is achieving its Paris objectives. The petroleum industry is Norway's largest industry measured in value added, state income, investment and export value. Let me exemplify: Even in 2017, where Rogaland has had a tough year, the county delivers about. 5 B.C.E. kr more to the tax fund compared to Oslo. This is related to what we are discussing today. I also want to take advantage of the opportunity to mention that the Right Tina Bru Monday was out in the Class struggle with an attack on the Workers' Party because today we support a proposal in the setting to look at the possibility of getting a new petroleum message. Getting more knowledge about Norway’s main industry is going to fall to the right so badly for my chest, astonishes me. The criticism from Tina Bru seems even more funny when we look back at what happened when the Right himself sat in opposition. In 2009, the Right Party and the Advance Party promoted proposals in the Stortingen on a notification of petroleum, having regard to the fact that it was common to receive such a notification for treatment every two years. The speaker from the Right, Ivar Kristiansen, spoke in the big debate on the proposal: ‘It is only to take note that the industry that is responsible for about 25 pst. of all value creation in Norway, which is Norway’s economic locomotive, our largest knowledge industry, does not receive a worthwhile treatment of the future of the industry in this room. That responsibility is borne by today's government itself. And it is at a time when we are at a crossroads in Norwegian energy policy, Norwegian oil and gas policy, where we know that lack of decisions will necessarily have major consequences for the future – consequences for production and also consequences for the country’s economy.” I almost couldn't say it better myself. The Stoltenberg Government provided a petroleum message in 2011. The Director-General of the Research Council then stated that this clearly established the importance of the petroleum industry for Norwegian value creation, now and in the future. - In 2011. So this is seven years ago. So when the Right Party and the Advance Party were in opposition, they thought that such a message was so important that it had to come every two years. When the Right now argues against, according to the Class fight yesterday, they meet themselves at the door. Today's proposal shows that it is high time for a new big message. We have other challenges today than what we had in 2011. I hope that the Right and Advance Party will seize the opportunity to write this message. The absence of second- every-year reporting is at least taken with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1928	The IEA — the recognised Energy Agency, which bases its analyses on current policies, has calculated that one third of the energy mix in 2050 will come from oil and gas. When we know that Norway in its petroleum production has a CO 2 footprint of about half the world average, will it not be wrong for us to cut out our oil and gas industries so that others with a higher image will take over? When we know that we are one of the least secure countries to operate oil and gas, is it right for us to let others do the job with less certainty? When we know that Norway has one of the highest tax pressures on oil and gas extraction, which means that the revenue benefits the community, is it still right for us to cut this cord now? Is it not true that there should be some consistency in the scaling up of renewable energy and the scaling down of oil and gas to ensure that the world gets enough energy? And should we, as we are now using the means to scale up innovation rates and instruments for technological development within the renewable society, cut this string into income? And should we, who have developed a world class competence in this area, signal that what we now have alerts to the pervasive frameworks within the area, should no longer be in force? I come from Stord, from Sunnhordland, a region that since we found oil, has lived with oil recessions, ups and downs, with oil prices and oil finds, with contract award and loss of contract. Everyone knows that oil and gas are a finite resource that we can live on for a few decades and that we've had to do for a few more decades. For this reason, the whole of industry has started a major change process of transition into the renewable society, where we are faced with the challenges of oil and gas industries, and are contributors to the technology required by the renewable society – such oil and gas were on the shoulders of the shipbuilding industry, and so the shipbuilding industry was on the shoulders of the marine industries such as the fishing of herring and the coastal farmer’s maritime knowledge. We've done some conversions before. It is best to do so when we can gradually change the focus from being in the world class in the fossil energy supply industry to renewable energy. And we're on our way – in our heav Statoil tap from land on five wind turbines that could then begin to travel to Scotland. This occurred in the neighbouring Kværner area, which is one of the flagships in the oil and gas supply sector. Statoil's Hywind project is based on the competence that offshore industry has given us. Battery technologies that are now being introduced on the ferries to replace heavy oil and diesel come from the same environment. This is an example of the transformation that happens. Many of the oil and gas companies are already heavily involved in the renewable market, with a tailhang of small and medium-sized suppliers bringing new and innovative ideas for new development and exciting ideas, new material components and better ways to drive energy and resource use. But one is not yet in the vicinity of thinking that this will replace the 180 000 jobs linked to oil and gas, nor the ringing effects of these workplaces. Nor is it in the vicinity of being a substitute for the revenues we have from the oil and gas sector. It's not in the vicinity of having the potential to replace the energy supply that oil and gas represent today, nor what it will require in 2050. If you ask business what they need, the answer is stable and long-term conditions – a deliberate turn towards the green shift that we are doing. We can live with such processes, it is possible to absorb, taking into account both the risk of skills, the economy and the workplace. Search permissions are part of these preposterous framework conditions. The Green Party's proposal to halt the 24th concession round is not good for the world's climate and environmental accounts, not good for the world's craving for energy, not good for Norway's well-being, not good for the industry's need for long-term long-term care, not good for health, the environment and security in the global context of oil and gas industries, not good for the transfer of competences and our jobs. It may be that the intention behind it is good – the result of such a decision would be so sadly poor.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1965	It is important that we debate Norway's most important industry, the energy industry. What we do not need, on the other hand, is debate freed from reality, as this debate quickly becomes because Norwegian energy industry is composed and consists of both a fossil and a renewable sector. Putting a full stop to one of these engines will create significant challenges for the well-being state that is built up and in which we live. Our energy resources are and have been the carriers of today's welfare society. The rich oil and gas deposits form the basis for Norway’s largest export industry and have given it an economic freedom that is unique in the world context. Therefore, initially, there is no doubt that today’s proposals should be rejected on that basis. Nevertheless, there is no doubt that Norway is facing a switchover. We have to move from fossil to renewable energy, but there is nothing at present to suggest that the climate will benefit from new readmissions ending on Norwegian soil. On the contrary, if Norwegian oil and gas are removed from the world market, the world’s oil and gas needs will not be reduced, and we will have oil and gas from countries that produce this type of product with much greater climate pressure than ours, not to mention that they will be replaced by other energy sources, such as coal, which will be even worse in a global perspective. Nor should we underestimate the fact that Norwegian petroleum industry has also contributed – and continues to contribute – to a significant development of technology and competence, which will be important in promoting the transition to the low-carbon society, both at home and, not least, in the rest of the world. The technology and competence that Norway has developed in oil and gas, has a high transfer value to other forms of energy and other industries and must be managed in such a way that it does not disappear, but develops and is used to build society and energy of the future. The stability, long-term and soundness of the production of oil and gas on a Norwegian base remains crucial for the Centre Party, in the interests of both the environment and the climate and society's overall resource management. However, the centre party considers that the precautionary principle is important. Norwegian oil and gas extraction must not be at the expense of fisheries and aquaculture and vulnerable natural resources. We therefore say a clear no to the impact assessment of Lofoten, Vesterålen, Senja and Møre fields, and we reject proposals to move the ice edge. At the same time, we do not consider the rest of the Norwegian capital in the same way as the same needs. Therefore, we are to maintain activity and development on those parts of the Norwegian socket that have already been adopted. The centre party concludes on the main lines of Norwegian oil and gas policy with particular emphasis on long-term management, industrial development, the income generated by the industry to the community, and not least climate responsibility. The overall picture therefore shows that the Centre Party is opposed to today's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1980	Much has changed in the Norwegian environment debate since I joined Nature and Youth in 1988. Two years later, in 1990, the United Nations Panel on Climate Change came with its first climate report. At that time, leading bureaucrats in my home country, the South Trondelag, could also allow themselves to chat with the climate scientists. South-Trøndelag County stayed at that time with an oil consultant who went out in Arbeider-Avisa – who at the time existed – and stood down in Ravnkloa, down by the sea in Trondheim, held his hand in the waist and told the journalist that it played no role about the sea rose by one or two meters in the next 50 years – we would be able to move the city up tolia before it happened. This would not have happened today. The person had either not said so, or the newspaper had probably protected him from him even if he had said so. Fortunately, climate denial is getting fewer, but we still have what I would call climate denial, also centrally located in today's government. The fact is that the world has found too much fossil energy that we can wipe out what is today found economically extractable, while at the same time meeting the global climate goals that the world agreed on in Paris. If we do that, we'll just boil this globe. Norway, as one of the countries that have contributed to the pumping of large quantities of oil and gas, must also take its responsibility. Or do we again expect other countries to take responsibility for their oil, their coal or their gas? It can easily be this way when you consider the oil as a sacred cow, something I suspect comrade Halleland to do. The fields planned to be operated through the 24th concession round will be going and releasing large amounts of greenhouse gases at a time when Norwegian and world emissions will be as good as zero. It is therefore directly irresponsible to gamble with the climate in the way you do through the 24th concession round, and where you also make a bet that the world will achieve its climate goals. If the world is able to achieve its climate goals, these fossil resources will be much less valuable, and then it's a question of whether we will in the future, as a community, make so much money on this as we've done up to now. With this I address the suggestions that SV is included in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1991	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e1996	24. Concession Round is also part of the Left-wing Programme. A majority of the regional meeting of the Left wanted – when we voted on the programme – to stop the 24th concession round. So that's another explanation of vote I'm giving you right now. Because we have to admit – with our meat weight in the luggage – that when we negotiated going into government and establishing the Jeløya platform, we lost the fight. What we won was the further protection of the Lofoten, the Vesterålen and Senja, and the freezing of the areas around Jan Mayen, the ice edge, Skagerrak and Mørefelten, the Mora banks. When granting new extraction permits in 24 rounds, attention shall be paid to environmental professional advice. One shall, in particular, consider the areas around the Bear Island, which are vulnerable. A climate risk committee has also been set up to look at and help us as politicians with new measures. We've won other things on the Jelaua platform, like cutting 40 pst. in Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions, halve emissions in the transport sector by 2030, and we will have 40 pst. blending of biofuels by 2030. We're going to bet on the hydrogen as an energy carrier. There's a lot of big problems we're going to do. If we take into account that we are going to invest more in sea wind, that we have ambitions related to carbon capture, that we are going to start building green batteries and establishing CO 2 funds, then we also need capital, and we have to recognise that oil and gas are contributing capital. So building a bridge over to the green shift and using the technology we need to reduce emissions is an important part of our stage of bringing us to the zero-emission society. The call for 24th round of the concession started last June with the deadline for application of 30 November. This was before the Left went in to negotiate becoming part of the government. We are in a balance between taking fights about the past related to it and making the most possible in the fight for the future. It's also interesting to look at the 22nd and 23rd round of concessions: in the 22nd, there were 36 applicants. In the 23rd, it was 26. And now, in the 24th, there's only 11 applicants. It says something about that the interest in looking is getting smaller, there are fewer actors. It also says something about a sector that is less and less looking at as future, and it can be a concern or an advantage. The interest in using other technologies and industries is at least significant, so there are great opportunities for using renewables. See also the Barents area – for the Barents area and the North is also part of the discussions here – in the 40 years one has had exploration in the Barents Sea, from 1980, when one made the first findings, we have only got two extensions. Goliath today is no star example of economics in that industry, while Snow White production has brought in a lot of gas, and it is also part of that discussion. In the transition to the green shift, the gas is important – and much better than oil. Technology Norway can contribute there is important. In this way, Snow White has also replaced a lot of other fossil energy with the gas we sell out. Several have indicated that for future – if there are now plans and real extractions in some of the permits that we are about to issue, there is a perspective, perhaps some look forward to, until 2080 in a conservative picture – we invest in the event that someone is going to be with us for a long time. Hopefully we've phased out oil and gas long before that time, but it's a run forward to 2040 and 2050 to make it economic. There are long perspectives we are discussing, and we must also take that into account in the debate on the green shift and what technologies will win in the fight to cut emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2016	Having large natural resources is not the same as having a country become prosperous. Nevertheless, the petroleum resources we have found have made Norway a rich country. The difference between our country and some other countries that have found oil is a little about political systems that have our seniors and good, and I think it's also about a culture where one distributes income in a good way. What thinks the Christian People's Party is also important in the future, and regardless of what one might think of the 24th concession round and the TFO, I thought it was imperative to control all of this through Document 8 proposals in the Stortinget. This would have been a major conversion of Norwegian petroleum policy. But it is necessary to think again about parts of Norwegian petroleum policy. Both the Paris Agreement and the strong increase in renewable energy have changed the outlook and the risk of offshore oil and gas. It is good and necessary if we are to achieve our climate objectives, but a good and prudent policy in this area is important. Then it must be that when we ask difficult questions, we must debate them in a good way, because this is also about respect for those who today have their jobs within oil and gas, and the competences we have built up there. In the last week, I sent a written question to the Council of State asking the government to follow up the plural comments made in connection with this proposal. Then I register that the government is now planning to bring a message part to Stortinget in connection with the PUD for Johan Castberg. I think that's a good approach. With respect for the work that was behind such a big message, I think it is first important to look at what is coming there, before an order has a big message. Therefore, the Christian People's Party will not vote for an own message at that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2025	The President may have noticed that there is a bit of trouble about misinvestment in new large-scale buildings. It's probably not the first time that a magnification eases costs to the future. 18 years ago, the Bondevik government set up all the cloths to stop a massive misinvestment in fossil energy: Norwegian gas power plants. Many years and many billions later, everyone realize that Stoltenberg was completely wrong. Similarly, the oil industry, by the genius-clad Helge Lund, who called the Energy Works Mongstad the largest engineering project in Norway's history. It was said that the energy supply situation became critical if gas power plants were not built – just as it is today, when we hear that the oil industry gets it critical if it does not get even more land. Former chief Kjell Magne Bondevik took responsibility for not participating in a wrong decision. He went off. His name will therefore appear in environmental history books in gold. Had there been as much roof in Erna as in Kjell Magne, she would have put the government in place that we should now stop – must stop – 24th concession round. Had there been as much roof in Step as in Kjell Magne, she had voted in line with the Left Party program. The Greens point out that not to distribute new licences in the future is a rational and tidy way to gradually slow down the level of investment in new fields that will be produced only from the 2030s and beyond. In the meantime, we can reap and be grateful for what we've already invested in, and make good money for it. To put it like this, stopping 24th concession round doesn't mean that we quickly stop being an oil country. Many existing fields will produce oil for many more years, including in the future with declining fossil demand. Our point is simply that we already have enough. We Nordics have had enough, and the climate has had enough. What we need is gratitude, not oil greed. Around us, there are four major drivers, so-called megatrends, which make a harvest-and-leave strategy rational and tidy on a Norwegian base by 2030. It is cheaper renewable energy, alternatives to oil, energy efficiency improvement and more difficult to access. These four interact with new climate policies to undermine the profitability of oil in the 10-15 years period. First, there is a sustained, surprisingly rapid fall in the cost of renewable energy sources. A report from IRENA, the International Renewable Agency, shows that by 2020 – only in two years’ time – solar and wind will compete coal, oil and gas in all new power generation virtually anywhere in the world. It's simply a whole new paradigm, says the IRENA manager. Secondly, there are alternatives that give substitutes for oil and gas use. Electric cars do without oil and grow exponentially. Unlike oil, batteries can be used over and over again, thousands of times. The internal combustion engine is uncompetitive by electric motors and batteries. Four-boilers extracted from heat pumps, etc. Thirdly, rapid energy efficiency improvement. LED bulb use only needs 10 pst. of the energy to give as much light as bulbs, and to grow by 72 pst. This year. New passive houses only use 10 pst. of the energy that old houses did. Recovery of waste heat cuts the need for fossil fuels. Energy use is already declining in the OECD, and the world's total energy needs can therefore decline from 2030 onwards, according to DNV GL's analyses. Finally, when even newer fields are to be developed, it becomes increasingly difficult to get hold of the oil. The simplest oil and gas have already been pumped up. You look a lot more around the world, but you find less years a year, which increases costs. Now you have to go further, further down, drill and "coat" more to pick up. Then you always use more energy and materials to get the next oil barrel up and transported. In the context, the picture of the future becomes quite clear. Sun, wind and batteries will be cheaper and simpler, while oil is farther away and more demanding. Energy efficiency gains less consumption per end-user, while new innovations completely eliminate the need. So to sum up: renewable competition, substitutes, energy efficiency improvement and demand reduction, while at the same time fossil fields become more complex and cost-effective. The scenarios of the IEA, which the Minister of Oil Søviknes used to call ‘all serious scenarios’, have bombed those drivers roughly over the last 10 to 15 years in a row. I am looking forward to the year 2030. Then I'm going to sit and laugh and say, "What was I saying?" – but also cry over ruined nature and wasted billions. But today I'm going to comfort the president in saying that the oversized buildings are going to be just blueberries in proportion. With that, I'll take up our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2051	The representative Per Espen Stoknes has taken up the proposal he referred to. The president would remind the representative to be careful with the use of characteristics of persons he refers to, whether they be geniuses or chiefs.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2058	The main objective of the petroleum policy is to facilitate a profitable production of oil and gas from a long-term perspective. At the same time, we're going to take the role of being a leading environmental and climate nation, and there's no contradiction in this. This target has been widely supported in the past in Stortinget. As has been mentioned, analyses — like the International Energy Agency — show that there will be a great need for oil and gas for decades to come. There will be plenty of room for oil and gas for decades to come while we can achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement. Our job as a producer country will then be to produce that oil and gas at the lowest cost and with the lowest CO 2 emissions possible. It is about low-cost and low-carbon in the future. The Paris Agreement is an important turning point in international climate policy, and there is no contradiction between taking the climate seriously and continuing to produce oil and gas. The climate challenge is global and therefore needs to be addressed globally, and we are taking an ambitious climate policy in Norway. We have our own special Norwegian CO 2 tax on the socket, and in addition to the quota system, it involves a charge of more than 500 kroner per tonne of CO 2 emitted on the Norwegian base. It has given us an incentive to have a lower emission rate on average on a Norwegian base than what you have globally. Participation in the EU's quota system is a pillar of government's climate policy. The only way to reduce total emissions in an allowance system is to reduce the allowance ceiling. A reduction of one site in the system that is subject to allowances will lead, equally, to increased emissions elsewhere in the system. We have committed ourselves in 2030 to contributing to emission reductions of 43 pst. compared to the 2005 level in the ETS sector. As for all other industrial activities, it is essential that we also distinguish emissions related to petroleum activities on Norwegian base, i.e. production, and those related to emissions from the combustion of oil and gas in the countries to which we export. It is according to the principle of sovereignty of international law that each country is responsible for emissions on its territory and it is based on both the UNFCCC, the Kyoto Protocol and the Paris Agreement. Petroleum policy that has led so far has given us good results, and there is no reason why we should not be able to derive great values from this industry as well. We can produce economically on a Norwegian base, existing fields are robust even in view of lower oil prices – this has shown us in recent years. Norwegian gas fields are highly competitive in a European market characterised by declining self-production and increased import needs, and new developments are now being promoted with a much lower break-even price than has been seen in the past. So they're going to be profitable at much lower prices than what you see today. The government will therefore pursue an oil and gas policy along the well-known lines with an offensive allocation of new land and with long-term and stable framework conditions. It is important to stress that we set the framework, while the industry itself is assessing the different risk elements. Investment decisions on exploration, expansion and operation are taken by the companies and the uncertainty associated with both any future lower oil and gas price and any higher emission-related costs. Oil and gas industries are also part of the total economy, and all industries are assessed by the financial market in view of the risk elements there. From the government's point of view, we would like to stress that when companies submit their plans for deployment and operation, they must ensure that the risk elements that lie there are made visible, so-called climate risk, and we will then also pass this on to the Stortinget in the matters that are to come here. There is a broad consensus on Norwegian petroleum policy. There is also an indication of the position in this case, and I am very pleased about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2088	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2093	So, as I mentioned in my introduction, it's been seven years since the last news, and now the Right Party and the Advance Party have been running the country for almost five years. The same batches, the Right and the Advance Party considered in opposition that the main industry of Norway should be notified every two years. What is the reason why the party of the Council of State does not agree with the proposal in the vote today?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2098	Firstly, I would like to believe that the representative of the Workers' Party is pleased that this government has chosen to steer forward on the main lines that were in the big business message that the red-greens presented in 2010–2011, An industry for the future – about the petroleum industry. What characterises Norwegian petroleum policy is that there has been agreement on the large lines, across party-political dividing lines and across the blocks of Norwegian policy. It's been a force. There has been a stability in international competition in which this industry participates. I would also like to stress that the Progress Party – Right-Registration in the previous period chose to promote a message part, a general part, along with the proposition related to the development of Johan Sverdrup. It was very well received, and one was discussed in Stortinget the large lines around the petroleum policy. Similarly, during this period we will promote a message part to the proposition on Johan Castberg, which will be promoted during the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2105	I would like to thank you for the answer, but once again I ask: in view of the fact that the Council of State is from Western Europe – I am fully aware of the debate that is taking place, both on the east side of the mountain and on the west side, and that there may be a discrepancy in the knowledge base of the debate we are also having today – what is the reason why the Party of Progress has gone from its position that we should have a big report every two years on Norway's main industry, and is not included in the proposal in today's session?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2110	We are committed to having a general and good debate on Norwegian petroleum industry, and we are contributing to this, including in the public word change. Believe me, over a long harvest last year with an intensive campaign, we were very clear on how important this industry is to Norway, to the community, to the value creation and not least to further develop the competence base built up over 50 years with oil and gas activities on Norwegian soil. We're going to contribute to that too, but we've chosen, both in the previous big time period and in this one, to present a message part in connection with a big expansion that's going to the Storting, and we're going to come back to these questions in the proposition for the Johan Castberg expansion. Then I have to remind the employee party representative of the Labour Party's position on this issue as late as last April. Then representatives from the Workers' Party stood on the pulpit in this hall and argued strongly against the need to have a new general notification of petroleum. So what has changed from 2017 to 2018 – and thus that the Workers' Party now seems to introduce a new and more uncertain everyday life for oil and gas operators in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2117	I'm not gonna ask you about Goliath. I will ask the Minister for Oil and Energy a simple question: can the Council of State envisage an area where nature is too valuable and too vulnerable to allow oil and gas extraction there?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2122	Yes, it will obviously be. We would like, among other things: could experience such a situation in the areas that are iced up, that is, if we move even further north. It is therefore the government's policy to take care of these particularly valuable areas, such as: the ice side represents. But then we have to talk about the physical edge of the ice where the ice actually is, and not a theoretical edge of ice. So we take care of the environmental values. That is what is an important perspective: not carrying out oil and gas activities, for example: seismic or oil-bearing drilling in areas with specific valuable fishing resources, biodiversity, bird life, etc. And that's what's crucial, i.e. the environmental values, not a given geographical area, but where there are high environmental values. Oil and gas operations shall not take place.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2129	The size will be predictable enough to vote in favour of MDG's proposal to stop the 24th concession round. Many will have more! But then the MDG believes that we should at least allow private investors to take more of the risk of searching for new oil and gas fields, which will first produce from 2030 onwards. After all, there is no reason why the state should take both climate and economic risks for the industry that is now enjoying seven fat years, before the seven lean may come and eat them. I have two questions. The first is: what action will the Council of State take to reduce the country’s climate risk and economic risk of uncertain investments far north? The second is, if we are going to start investing in the solutions of the 21st century and reduce investment in the 1900s' oil solutions – when does the Council of State think that the time is coming to change the course?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2138	The starting point is the division of labour that I also outlined in the main contribution, linked to the fact that the authorities set the framework for the business through a predictable, long-term policy, and then it must be up to companies and the financial market to take the different risk balances with regard to the future price picture of oil and gas and the future cost picture of CO 2 emissions. No one is better placed to make the kind of assessments than those on which the tests are being carried out, namely the oil and gas companies and the financial sector, to borrow funds for this sector. When it comes to the country's risk in this, it's absolutely right that we take some of the costs. It should only be lacking – oil and gas industries are in line with other industries in a situation where a tax on profits is paid, but are deducted from the costs involved in development and production. We have a high tax rate on Norwegian petroleum activities, precisely because it is our common resources that we are going to use.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2149	Governments are aware that almost nine out of the $10 bills that investors take in unsafe fields are covered by taxpayers, but it is not certain that all voters are aware of it: that it is a total of nine out of ten dollars. In a situation where the whole world is going to turn towards a decarbonised economy, and we are in favour of the success of the Paris Agreement, it seems that the government is gambling on the failure of the Paris Agreement by continuing to take high risks on the part of private oil builders. My question is, how long does the Council of State think this is the right way to subsidize the oil industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2162	First of all, I want to take a great deal of distance from the term'subsidize'. So you have a completely normal system in which oil and gas companies are deducted from their expenses and pay a high tax on the net income they are left with. It is also important to stress that the state is setting a framework, companies are testing and are responsible for the development and operation of the different fields. The read-back mechanism, which the MDG has also been after, has provided the country with large revenues. Let me just take one example, as there has often been a lot of effort to talk about the exploration fusion scheme as a subsidy scheme. Lundin was one of the companies that entered the Norwegian pedestal as a result of facilitating a broader image of the actor. 7 B.C.E. SEK in light return has given investment of 73 billion. NOK, and it's expected to give 200 billion. kr in the income of the country. It is a good return on a contribution to — initially — raising the search activity on a Norwegian base.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2169	So the line change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2176	Since I was challenged by my challenge to the Workers' Party in the Class struggle, I felt that I had to speak in this debate. I have to say that there are few things I think are more interesting than discussing the petroleum industry, and so do we. We do it all the time -- not least in this room. My main criticism of the Workers' Party, which today is voting for this proposal for a new petroleum notification, is not that they want to discuss the industry or get a new occasion for it – it is the context in which the initiative is being taken, I respond. The whole of this proposal for a representative is that we have to wind up the industry and, above all, stop the 24th round of concessions. The proposal points to stranded asset issues, which do not believe in profitability for the industry in the future. It is argued that the tax system needs to be changed. The exemption will be abolished in the special tax, and then, after all, there will be a proposal for a new notification of petroleum in the light of the climate challenges facing it and the new market situation. We do not see proposals that are promoted in one case, regardless of the matter in which they are advanced. I challenged the Workers' Party in the Class struggle because I expect a party that claims to be a responsible party, and which at least takes the petroleum industry seriously, that they can at least answer why they want a new message and what it should contain, when voting in favour of such a proposal in a case based on a representative proposal from the Greens' Greens' Party to wind up the industry. In view of the climate challenge and the new market situation, as far as I can see, profitability has now improved on Norwegian soil – what does the Labour Party think the government has to respond to in such a new notification? In the kerosene message, which the red-green ones made in 2011, which I think is very good, and which has been the one we have built on in our reign, four strategies were pointed out to ensure the continued high value creation on the base. That's it. rate of increased field extraction in production Put findings into production continue searching open new areas As I said, I think this is a good message. I wonder what new in the strategy is what we need to add to the new Communication in the light of the climate challenge? It is sad if the Workers' Party no longer believes that that message is good. It's fine if we can get clear answers to what they want now, as of today. In fact, it deserves the industry. I think it creates uncertainty when, in an attitude towards the Storting, which is the result of a Document 8 proposal that goes in order to wind up the industry, such proposals are promoted, and then there is no answer to that. And then I see that the representative Haukeland Liadal argues in the class struggle that you can relax because she is, after all, an oil kid from Rogaland. But I am not so sure that it will be enough for the industry to feel safe about what the Workers' Party really means by this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2206	I am very pleased that today we are getting a solid majority to reject this proposal that we are dealing with – of course in the light of the economic consequences of such a proposal, but also for climate reasons. We know that what Norwegian petroleum industry contributes to makes a difference to the climate in our neighbourhoods, in our neighbouring countries, in Europe. Just to give an example — it is good to know what the alternative would have been for Germany if they had replaced the Norwegian gas with, for example, coal power, which would be a nearby energy carrier to replace this gas with. 300000 million tonnes would increase the German emissions by six times the total Norwegian emissions. We can equal or not equal fossil energy sources, but there are big differences between them: some fossil sources emit more than others. This industry has been through a rough time. There has been a need for conversion, we've seen that. And the industry has solved that challenge. They must boast much about many changes that they have managed to make, while for others, costs, they must have less brilliance, but they have at least managed to reduce it. But then with this industry, like with other industries that are at risk, you want predictability. When the representative Haukeland Liadal is standing up here in the pulpit and asks for more knowledge and wants that knowledge through a new petroleum message, I wonder a little bit about what she wants. Now the representative was Bru into much of the same, but, as I said, the knowledge she lacks today, she obviously didn't need last year. I want to challenge the Workers' Party on this: what has happened now is new? So this is a Document 8 proposal that means more or less that we're going to shut down the petroleum industry. The representative Haukeland Liadal then finds it appropriate to ask for a new petroleum notification – in the light of the climate challenges and the market situation. Fortunately, it is a solid majority for a stable and predictable policy in the petroleum industry. I really hope that the Workers' Party will continue that policy and stop creating the uncertainty in the industry that they are now doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2215	I would like to praise the Left for ensuring the protection of the Lofoten, the West Pole, Senja, the Moor Banks, the ice edge, Skagerrak and Jan Mayen for the next four years. It's a big and important victory, and I'm glad the Left got to the same thing that SV did from 2005 to 2013. I also record that the Left got the following into the Jeloya platform – another point that the Minister of Oil and Energy failed to mention in its introduction: the Government will «in granting extraction permits during the ongoing 24th concession round, focus on environmental professional advice in or near particularly valuable areas; [[SVO]] In the context of the round of consultations to the 24th Concession Round from the Council of the Environment Directorate for Oil Drilling in 20 of the proposed areas. Norwegian Polar Institute not advised oil drilling in 37 of the areas. I would therefore challenge the Council of State whether the point in the Jeløya platform can mean that part of the advertised fields are actually withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2225	The Green Party is an oil-than-thankful party. We also fully agree that the oil sector has been of enormous importance to Norway, we have gained a great competence, and it has contributed to a huge value creation. But it is far from the only thing that has contributed to the creation of value. When our proposal to stop the 24th concession round is now put to a vote, a proposal comes up that you need a new petroleum message. It will then look at new knowledge, as Halleland asks. This new knowledge applies to such things as: the contribution of gas to the reduction of climate emissions in countries such as England, the United States, Germany would like to be raised by the Progress Party and oil enthusiasts, but the reality is that English greenhouse gas emissions go down together with the decline in gas consumption. The Norwegian gas plays a much smaller role than what we norsemen like to believe. New research shows, for example: CO 2 emissions in the United States are primarily due to energy efficiency improvement, then renewable energy — and then gas substitution. So here's new knowledge that should be explored, Halleland. Then our proposal is a new petroleum message – which is supported by the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party. We are pleased, but we are very surprised that the Christian People's Party and the Left have turned around here. They have previously supported the Green Party's proposal that a new kerosene message be needed in the light of a completely new market situation and a new climate situation. We think it's hair-removing that the Christian People's Party and the Left now insist on steering this important industry further on an old message entitled An industry for the future, which was based on a totally out of date knowledge base. In addition, we also think it is time to mention our proposal – since no one has mentioned it before – to remove the word ‘oil’ from the title of the Council of State Søviknes and OED. We believe it is time to have a new Ministerial post called ‘Minister of Energy’. We also think that there is a point to take further – it would otherwise be totally ignored. This is, of course, the new transformation we are facing into a new energy system, where oil will have a smaller and smaller significance.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2239	I think the representative Haukeland Liadal had a good job. Among other things, she showed that you now want a kerosene message. She also showed that it was an explicit wish from the Right and Advance Party when they did not join the government. Then you had a wish that you would have that season every two years. Now five years have been spent in government, and after a seven-year-old petroleum report, it is controlled. So you try to doubt what the Workers' Party really thinks about the petroleum policy. For those who are in doubt, I think we have clarified very carefully and very well in the Committee's comments what we stand for, and what we want. It is pointed out that we are now dealing with a Document 8 proposal, and it seems nice that we will discuss such an important business future in such a setting. But where in the world are we going to discuss it if we're not going to get a kerosene message? Then we have to take the arena we get. And the arena we have today is the Document 8 proposal. Then there is the opportunity to discuss petroleum policy in the broadest sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2246	First, a response to the representative Lars Haltbrecken of SV related to the environmental advice to be taken into account in the 24th concession round. It will be exciting to see what the environmental advice can contribute to, especially in relation to the most vulnerable areas. So to the Green Party, which has promoted this proposal we are discussing, but also the proposal for a notification of petroleum. A week ago, we were in a debate in New Year's Eve, me and the representative Stoknes from the Greens. The representative Stoknes then said that it was possible to stop the 24th concession round if, among other things, The left had voted against. There must have been a real orientation without equal for the Greens today, because it turns out that there is no way to get what the Greens were talking about. Then it is surprising that they are getting the Workers' Party towed for a kerosene message. According to the Workers' Party, they have to extract more. How this is going to relate to the red-green side, it's a little bit hard to understand. That's why the position of the Left here – when it comes to taking revenue, opportunities and technology and gradually rebuilding the green shift – is that the message we really need is a techno message, which is going to get the change that we're in. Then the occasion is quite good later in spring to discuss those options – when the action plan at Johan Castberg arrives. There are investments of an estimated 150 billion. kr. It's the means we're going to discuss how to use, but also the north, because it's the Barents Sea and the Norwegian Sea we're discussing here – which areas point out that can contribute to that income. This includes quite a number of other issues related to international policy and cooperation and interaction with others. It is also possible to imagine climate technologies and cooperation with other actors. The ice edge is moving, and in the areas of the north more and more ice is opening up – what opportunities does it provide? An important part of holding back is also talking about which areas we are going to protect against economic exploitation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2257	First, to the representative Haltbrecken, who referred to the Jeløia platform and the wording of the 24th concession round, emphasis should be placed on environmental professional advice when awarding in and near particularly vulnerable areas, with Bjørnøya specifically focused. Let me then stress that it does not mean focusing on environmental advice, thus saying that you should not be able to have oil and gas activity. The question is, where appropriate, what measures can be put on an extractive permit to preserve the environmental values that it is important to maintain. This could be done, for example, by: be seasonal restrictions related to drilling in oil-bearing layers, which are also specified in the Jeløya platform. So briefly to the representative Stoknes, who refers to the name of the ministry, namely the Ministry of Oil and Energy – and to the title of the Council of State as well, for that matter: I record in the setting that the name, and perhaps thus also signed, is referred to as both «old-fashioned, out-of-date, backward-looking and nostalgic». To put it that way: I bear the title of oil and energy minister with pride, both in relation to the renewable sector, where we have a surplus of renewable energy, where it is now more powerful than 25 years old, and where the renewable industry represents the largest value maker in mainland Norway, and also in relation to the oil and gas industry, our undeclared largest industry with nearly 200,000 employees, which represents an important technological development that is also used in other industries, and where the industry collectively creates values for society, for the community, in a magnitude that no other industry is doing. Thus, as late as 2016-2017, with relatively low oil and gas prices, the revenue from the oil and gas industries was the same as from all other industries to together, in terms of national revenues. So pride is there. Finally, to the Workers' Party's proposal for a separate petroleum message: I have explained the government's proposal to come to Stortinget with a message part in the Castberg proposal. But I want to underline and challenge further what is in the setting, where there are two arguments being drawn up for why it can be natural with a separate petroleum message now. Reference is made to the fall in the oil price and to the Paris Agreement. Both parts are elements that took place before 2017 before April last year, when the Workers' Party strongly argued against such a separate petroleum message. So what's changed from April to now? We still have not received an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2267	I asked for answers as to why the Workers' Party wants this new message, and we just have to note that I have not received it – not from the Workers' Party. But we've got a response to what's the point of this message. It came very clearly from the representative of Stoknes, who is behind this proposal, who has promoted this proposal, not just the new notification of petroleum, but the entire proposal for a representative. He's very clear -- this is into a picture that it's time to start the liquidation, it's time to step down, it's time to look at the tax system, and we can't go on like we've done before. Then it is possible that the Workers' Party has its own interpretation of what this proposal should be. This may sound like following the lines that were here earlier today – just as you need this message to clarify the lack of factual knowledge in the public debate on the oil and gas industry. That is possible, but we must not vote in favour of a proposal by the Greens, which clearly has a completely different purpose than that. It is possible to make your own proposals in this big deal. I hope that the Workers' Party will continue to insist that we have predictability for Norway's main industry, that we can rely on the Workers' Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party as the major parties committed to ensuring value creation, long-termity and predictability of that industry. Voting for such proposals, as the Labour Party is doing here today, does not help to maintain that impression.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2276	The representative Per Espen Stoknes has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2281	I just want to briefly give four answers to the challenge of what has changed since 2011, since the Storting obviously has not got it. So it's a crazy, absurd, incredible development within the sun and the wind – over 80 pst. cost cut for the competitors of oil. In 2016–2017 there was a historical trend break that will be found in the history books, and it was that the sun and wind competed out of coal and gas. For the first time, prices of unsubsidised sun and wind fell far below – not far below, but they crossed coal and gas in 2016–2017. By 2020 it will be cheaper anywhere in the world. The third is that the Paris Agreement has not only been adopted but has been ratified. And the fourth is that from the 2020s onwards, batteries will be below 60 pst. of what they were last year. So four trends in renewable batteries and climate policy are a whole new picture.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2286	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2302	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2311	It has been instructive and interesting to be the case rapporteur for my first case in committee. It has been particularly interesting to follow the case, as the outcome may affect the development of Norwegian airports, which I have frequented through my 22 year professional life as a traffic flight. I would like to thank all those involved in the Committee on good and constructive cooperation. This case began as a proposal from the representatives of Kjersti Toppe, Sigrid Simensen Ilsøy and Emilie Enger Mehl to allow the Vinmonopolet to take over the duty-free sale of alcoholic beverages at Avinor’s aviation activities. The agreement with Travel Retail Norway AS on duty-free sales at Avinor’s airports expires in 2022, and it is natural that questions about the tender conditions are considered well in advance. The initiative to assess the tax-free sale was already taken when Stortinget adopted the State budget for 2017. At that time, the following was adopted: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case for the Storting assessing all the consequences and legal changes necessary for the wine monopoly to take over the duty-free sale of alcohol at Norwegian airports at the end of the applicable tendering periods.’ In the 2018 budget, the Decision was followed up by the following observations: «The government will come back to the matter in the course of the downgrading period.» The majority of the Committee, i.e. The members of the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party and the Left, as a result of the above-mentioned decisions in the State budgets, are of the opinion that it is not appropriate to go further in the proposals now. If the wine monopoly is to take over the sale of tax-free goods at Avinor’s airports, a number of complex legal, economic and practical questions will be raised. It will therefore be natural to wait for the investigation of the government to be asked to submit to the Grand Government, ready, before the Storting goes to the step of adopting any changes. In this investigation, it is expected that all consequences of transferring the duty-free sales to the Vinmonopolet will be assessed. For employees and drivers of Norwegian airports, not least at airports that can be hit outside the Avinor system, it is important to obtain clarification as early as possible. The discussion we have seen in the media in the cold water of the representative proposal shows that there has been considerable uncertainty about the future framework conditions in the industry. The attitude of the majority of the Health and Welfare Committee, i.e. The members of the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party and the Left are therefore that the proposal to allow the Vinmonopolet to take over the duty-free sale of alcoholic beverages by Avinor’s aviation activities is not adopted. As a right-wing politician, I would like to make some comments on the matter. The reasons for the proposal include: that a large proportion of the alcoholic drink consumed in Norway has been purchased abroad or in tax-free shops. This has been wanted policy by several governments. During the Bondevik II administration, air passengers were allowed to purchase tax-free goods after arrival in Norway. The aim was, of course, to increase sales in Norwegian shops. And the result was as expected. Already after the first week, the NRK Sørlanden could report a sales increase of 43 pst. at Kristiansand Airport, Kjevik. Under the Stoltenberg II Government, a larger quota of wine was allowed to enter Norway and the current government has allowed the quota of tobacco to be replaced by more wine or beer. All seven parties that have been in government since 2005 have been aiming to increase the sales of tax-free products. It seems therefore strange that this precisely desired increase in sales should be used to justify the take over of the sale of alcoholic beverages by the Vinmonopolet at Avinor airports. I doubt that it will be legally possible to introduce a monopoly at only a selection of our airports, without imposing the same monopoly on those airports that are not owned or operated by Avinor. The parties who wish to grant the monopoly of wine also argue in the case for the role of the wine monopoly as an alcohol policy instrument. I doubt that it's any part of the total alcohol consumption in Norway whether it's a private company or whether it's the Vinmonopolet that runs the tax-free stores. What obviously plays a role in the high tax-free sales is the design of these stores. Today, passengers are forced to go through the shops, which is intended to increase impulse sales. And that, of course, works. If the Storting wishes to reduce the purchasing pressure on air passengers, Avinor should be instructed to redesign the shops. I also think it is a paradox that alcohol, tobacco and other tax-free products should be involved in financing Norwegian aviation and infrastructure, but this is a completely different discussion from that proposed by the representative. I believe there is a great risk that the exclusive right to the Vinmonopolet will reduce aerodromes' ability to finance daily operations and necessary investments. I would therefore strongly ask that the Stortinget wait to give the Vinmonopolet exclusive right to sell tax-free goods to the Government to submit a case to the Stortinget, which assesses all the consequences of and necessary legislative changes for the wine monopoly to take over the duty-free sale of alcohol at Norwegian airports.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2347	The Labour Party has said in the party programme that we will consider allowing the Vinmonopolet to take over the operation of the tax-free scheme at the end of the current agreement. At the same time, we are concerned that revenue from public and private airports is being continued. Of today's Avinor airports, only eight are going with profits. It's especially that we let tax-free sales help finance the operations of the 37 airports that don't have any profit. But that's how we have done it, and I haven't registered any other parties that currently have alternative funding. The working party believes that the Vinmonopolet has an important social role as a central alcohol policy instrument. Therefore, we think it makes sense to have the assessment of whether the Vinmonopole should take over the operation of the tax-free scheme at the end of the current agreement. Stortinget has already asked for this – a year ago. Now it's said that the government doesn't seem exactly to be hasty to follow up that proposal. That is why the Workers' Party is today promoting a proposal that the government should come back with this as a separate matter to the Stortinget during the year, not during the ageing period, to which it has committed itself. It is important that we ensure that any changes in the operation of the tax-free sale of alcohol are clarified as early as possible, so that industry operators are given predictability around future framework conditions when the current agreement expires in 2022. I assume that the government will of course ensure that one does not start a new tendering procedure until the Stortinget has decided the matter. The proposal of the Labour Party today means that one can continue to keep to the progress and timetable of the Senterpartie. But we're not willing to waste the operation of 37 airports in the districts, because there's uncertainty about the incomes of Avinor, whether they're the same or not, if the Vinmonopole takes over the operation of the tax-free sale. The Vice President of Parat, Vegard Einan, is concerned and refers to calculations Avinor himself has made, which estimates a loss of 1 billion. kr for the wine monopoly to be granted exclusive rights on duty-free sales. Yesterday, journalist Tone Angell Jensen in Nordlys had the following comment on this matter: ‘The centre batch that lights up in the districts’, where she says, ‘But they can quickly become the batch that provides for the closure of aerodromes in the districts’. I don't think the Center Party really wants that. In any case, the working party does not wish to frustrate airport services in the districts. The fact that this is the case with the proposal of the Centre Party is not certain, but the question and the uncertainty is hanging there. Although the Central Party's proposal is about the duty-free sale of alcoholic beverages at Avinor's airports, Sandefjord Airport, Torp, has become heavily involved. In their consultation performance, they say, among other things: that the proposal creates a significant uncertainty for the long-term framework conditions and therefore has a significant impact on Torp. They are concerned about the relationship with tendering rules and EEA competition rules and believe that the issue of imposing exclusive rights is not sufficiently addressed only at public airports. In the previous period, Moss Airport, Rygge was closed. I don't want to do anything that can contribute to Torp being also put into play. The Labour Party supports the Vinmonopolet. We have to build up under the Wine Monopoly and take seriously the challenges they face. At the same time, we must take care of the concerns I have now had. The working party also supports under major regional airports that are essential for the development of the region in which they are located. In any case, the monopoly on wine cannot take over tomorrow. We owe all the jobs and vibrant local environments that today depend on their district airports, or for that matter Sandefjord Airport, that we take the time to get the case that Stortinget has already ordered and that will thoroughly elucidate legal, economic and practical questions before we reach the final decision. If the Labour Party's proposal today gets a majority, we'll make sure that we reach the next ‘tax-free flight’, which only lasts in 2022.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2371	Should the representative make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2376	Then I take up the proposal from the Workers' Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2381	The representative, Tellef Inge Mørland, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2386	This is a very special case, and it is especially that it is the Center Party that is the great army leader to prevent competition in alcohol, tobacco, cosmetics, etc. that is being sold at airports around the country. The leader of Nordlys – or comment – is definitely not something that the Progress Party is often pleased with, but yesterday it was actually quite good, when it was said that the Centre Party could be ‘lighting lights in the districts’ in Norway. It is serious, and I think that the representative Toppe and the Central Party should take this on board. It can have major consequences for Avinor's airports, but it can also have major consequences elsewhere. Concerns include: at Sandefjord Airport, Torp, as I know very well, and that gets big challenges if it does. As surely as the rain comes after the sun, there is an ever-increasing desire for the Vinmonopolet to take over the tax-free trade at Norwegian airports. I do not know how many times we have dealt with this, but one of the proposers, the representative Toppe, is going to have for his stamina. Whoever gives in has lost, there's something called, so the fight continues obviously. Of course, the proposal is motivated by the fact that it will be better for public health that it is the Vinmonopolet that provides the joyous drops in the Nordic shopping bags on return to the old country than that it is Travel Retail Norway or others who handle the sale. I ask: Does the representative Toppe think that a bottle of red wine from the Vinmonopolet is better for health than a bottle sold by Travel Retail Norway or others? Is it health in every drop if it is the State monopoly that provides the conjac for the coffee, while it is healthful if the bottles are sold through a private company? Let me remind the representative Toppe that this private company has paid 18.6 billion according to their own websites. kr to Avinor since 2005, money to operate the country’s airports. They're going to pay another 28 billion. kr in the current contractual period until 2023 and of the turnover they pay approx. 50 pst. in the rental of Avinor. The company has more than 1 300 dedicated employees with a lot of knowledge in the large range of goods they offer to customers. Of course, the Wine Monopoly also has a lot of dedicated and good employees, but this is about us thinking it makes sense that there is some competition here. The government parties – and the Stortinget – have clearly said that if the wine monopoly is to take over, it will have to go through the consequences and get an analysis of what it will mean. Finally, as I said, I have asked before, but I do it again: Does the representative Toppe think that a bottle of red wine from the Vinmonopolet is better for health than a bottle sold by Travel Retail Norway or another company?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2397	The monopoly of wine has an important social role in Norway. It's one of the most important alcohol policy tools we have, and it's a huge uprising about the monopoly of wine in the population. Nevertheless, the wine monopoly is under constant pressure. A large proportion of alcoholic beverages consumed in Norway are purchased abroad or in tax-free shops. The Nordics travel more than before, thereby also increasing the volume of tax-free trade. 10 pst. of all wine, hot wine and spirits sold in Norway in 2015 were sold at Norwegian Airports on income. The proposal of the Central Party is to make the only thing understandable, to allow the Vinmonopolet – which is highly uplifted in the population and has solid experience in purchasing and selling alcohol – to also be responsible for the sale of alcohol in the tax-free system. In the 2017 government budget, the government presented a ruling on the tax-free regime in Norway and, in view of this decision, the Stortinget takes a decision to ask ‘the government submits a case to the Stortinget assessing all the consequences of and necessary legislative changes to take over the tax-free sale of alcohol at Norwegian airports at the end of the current tendering periods.’ The government referred to this call decision in the 2018 State Budget, with the following comments: «The government will come back to the matter in the course of the downgrading period.» This means that the government has trained Stortinget's decision from autumn 2016. The follow-up should only take place during the ageing period, they meant – and that is not actually good enough. The central party therefore proposes to ask ‘the government to ensure that the Vinmonopole takes over the duty-free sale of alcoholic beverages by Avinor’s aviation activities when the agreement with Travel Retail Norway AS expires in 2022 and informs the Storting of progress in the work and of the legislative changes under consideration, in an appropriate manner and at the latest in the draft State budget for 2019.’ This proposal is supported by both the SV and the Christian People's Party. In the debate that's going on, it's claimed that our proposal to let the Vinmonopole stand for the tax-free sale of alcohol will threaten small airports in Norway. It's empty threats, and they're not based on facts. According to the own estimates of the Vinmonopolet, which you can read about in the distribution to the Stortinget in the State budget for 2017, there are currently no practical, EEA legal or economic conditions under which the Vinmonopolet cannot take over the tax-free sales of alcohol and deliver the same rental income to Avinor that can be used to subsidise the small airports. The monopoly says that they should be able to offer at least as good shopping experiences at airports as current shops, they should be able to have the same opening hours, the corresponding price level and the common cash box for different products. Despite the own assessments of the Vinmonopolet, some – including in this room – are alarming that this will mean billions of losses in the rental income of Avinor and the State, and that the future airport structure will depend on annual budget struggles on the Stortinget. This is an unplayed argument. Had one suggested to terminate the tax-free arrangement, it would have been another matter. The monopoly of wine assesses the current lease contract so that if the monopoly of wine from 2022 is acquired on the same terms and conditions, the revenue of the State may be held by layer or increase, in order to secure the financing of regional airports. Today, it is the company Travel Retail Norway that has an agreement with Avinor on the tax-free sales. The limited liability company is owned by Norse-Trade AS and the German family company Heinemann. A lot of the excess from the tax-free sales today ends up in German capital. If the Vinmonopole takes over the hall, we keep the money in Norway, and the surplus can be used for social purposes, to operate small airports like before and to strengthen the wine monopoly regime. I can understand the representatives of the Progress Party and the Right, who have never been supporters of this proposal. I'm more responsive to the Workers' Party, which I perceive today hassles with this proposal and goes well for all the lucid arguments. Here I had expected a wild thing. I'm dealing with the proposal from the Center Party on this matter. I would like to warn that we are going to vote in favour of the proposal of the Christian People's Party, and we are going to vote in a subsidiary way for the Labour Party's proposal – which is at least in favour of tightening up the majority of the Stortinget government's government budget for 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2426	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2431	I love the Wine Monopoly. Not only is it an important health measure that helps to ensure less alcohol abuse and better health in Norway — they have skilled employees and a very delicious sample. When we have good competence in an enterprise, with good quality assurance development programmes and good purchasing cooperation, it should be used. The wine monopoly should be allowed to drive tax-free. There is no professional reason why the million profits are to be sent as profits to private owners, when the rest of the liquor and wine sales are run by the Vinmonopolet, where the profits go to schools and hospitals instead. The Working Party, Right, Advance Party and Left fear of support for the Aircraft Short Path Network. One would almost believe that the hall had been seized by paranoia – in order to move the profit from private owners to the community would threaten all local airports in Norway, that the ticket tickets would crash like a card house because alcohol and wine sales would be organised with another owner, that the lights would be turned off in the districts, to which the Workers' Party's representative referred, or that Torp would be laid down, to which the Progress Party referred. It must almost be the strongest single decision this room has been lost — to change the owner of the tax-free in Norway. The SV and the Central Party have been together for very many years the strongest defenders of the short-haul network in Norway. You know that in the districts, and I think they also understand how the substitute argument works here. We need the short-haul network, especially in the north and in the west. Without the short-haul network, it will be difficult to live in large parts of Norway. But the funds for the short-distance network are not controlled by whether the profit from tax-free sales goes to private profit or to schools and hospitals in Norway. They are not affected by whether it is Travel Retail Norway or the Norwegian community that receives the profit. The revenues could also be secured in other ways, but this proposal is in fact only about having a new owner of the tax-free scheme. SV knows where we want to go. That is why we propose to decide that the wine monopoly should take over the duty-free sale of alcoholic beverages when the agreement expires in 2022 – not tomorrow, not next year, but when the agreement expires in 2022. There's a moderate suggestion that shows direction, something some other parties in this room could also practice. It is disappointing that the Workers' Party is not able to make a clear decision, but I am pleased that they are still in agreement with SV to require progress where the government has sold, so we can get an investigation in place by 2018. SV will also support the Christian People's Party's proposal not to support new negotiations with other providers.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2449	With regard to the present proposal to allow the Vinmonopole to take over tax-free sales at Avinor-Eide airports in the country, it is close to linking some comments to the tax-free system at aerodromes in general. In many ways, there is a strange system that has been allowed to establish over the years, one of the world’s richest countries financing its infrastructure through the sale of products for which there is a broad consensus on the negative health consequences. Alcohol and tobacco are products, however legal they may be, that we are internationally obliged to reduce their use. It is therefore most timely that the government has notified an investigation of the tax-free scheme during the current large-scale period. It is timely, just as it is bad timing for the proposers to speed up the conclusions of such an investigation. It seems to have become a bit of a habit in parts of the opposition to get such investigations in advance and thus undermine the confidence of the leading investigative body of Stortinget, the government administration. This was the case in a recent decision on the reform of the law, and it could have happened today. Of course, when today's proposal is not adopted, it is because, unlike the previous one, the Workers' Party has understood the negative significance of what goes under the name of the "burden company". Today's proposals do not really belong to the Health and Welfare Committee. There is no evidence that the acquisition of the Vinmonopole will lead to any decrease in alcohol sales in Norway. It's actually turned on by the Vinmonopole itself that this won't happen. So it is said that a transfer of sales from the company Travel Retail, which has won the competition for Avinor's airports, to the Vinmonopolet, will lead to a strengthening of the position of the Vinmonopolet in the country. That's possible, but the opposite might as well happen. The reason for this is that the representative proposal does not discriminate between Avinor’s aerodrome operations and the operations of other aerodromes, such as: Torp airport in my state, which – should get the proposal a majority – is in danger of becoming one of the very few airports in the country that outsource the operation of the tax-free sale in tenders without leading from the state. It is well possible that a law firm does not consider it to be a problem at ESA level to transfer the sale to the Vinmonopolet, but is it at all someone who has assessed what such discrimination between Torp and Avinor airports could provoke by reactions from those who administer competition law at European level? This may, before we know it, end with a European debate on the role and legitimacy of the monopoly of wine. There may be two outcomes of the proposal if the Vinmonopole takes over. Either the Vinmonopolet must withdraw as a source of funding for Norwegian aviation, or the State company must also take over at Torp. It's just a pretty big problem with the last one, and we have Torp's word for it: then Vestfold's and Telemark's airport have to put the hook on the door. Then it's at the end of this dear offer, and as a bonus effect: the environmental loss development of a third runway on the Gardermo has moved one step closer. This could not have been done by the proposers, who are opposed to such an extension. It would have been more honest to promote a proposal to remove tax-free trade and thereby finance Norway’s aviation in a different and less obscure way over the state budget. Instead, the Centre Party has tried on a model that is neither bird nor fish, and that has no documented health consequences. However, the model has two other interesting results, which are probably based on the positive side of the Centre Party's strange loss and gain account. One is that the county-owned and municipal-owned airport in Westfold is shut down, and the other is that the company Airport Retail Norway, which should not be confused with the other company, which is a full-time Norwegian company as taxes to Norway, which is responsible for operating on Torp, will lose much of its income base.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2468	The Christian People's Party's starting point for this debate is that we believe that the Wine Monopoly is one of the most important instruments in our alcohol policy. Many manage their own alcohol use in a good way. The alcohol policy of the Christian People's Party is not made primarily for them, but for those who struggle with alcohol in some way. That is why the Christian People's Party will have a solidarity and restrictive alcohol policy. We know that price and availability are the main means of regulating the consumption of alcohol. That's why we're into high alcohol taxes, and we want to protect the Vinmonopole. This is about human dignity for us. It is about solidarity with all those affected by the negative consequences of drugs, both directly and indirectly, and about protecting those most vulnerable. Alcohol policy instruments need to be strengthened and not weakened, and among these instruments, the wine monopoly is one of the most important. The monopoly of wine has an important social responsibility and broad support in the people – it regulates accessibility and has good control procedures, while at the same time providing quality and good information. Research from several countries shows that limited availability reduces alcohol consumption and that monopoly is one of the most effective instruments. For the Christian People's Party, it's also a point that in this way we keep commercial forces outside the trading system. So, as has been said by several already, it's very strange with the tax-free system itself, but once it exists, the Christian People's Party believes it's a good solution that the Vinmonopole takes over the tax-free sales at Norwegian airports. I think it is great that the Vinmonopole itself is so clear that they will be prepared to take over the operation of the tax-free sale at Norwegian airports. The monopoly on wine tells us politicians that the state's revenues will potentially increase by entrusting the operation to the monopoly on wine, and the monopoly on wine shows that we need to find ways to do this that ensure that Avinor's revenues will be at the same level. The wine monopoly is also clear that all practical challenges are fully soluble. So the majority of the Stortinget has asked for the consequences of transferring the sale to the Vinmonopolet. The government has promised to get closer to the matter during the pouring period. Today, the Christian People’s Party is behind a proposal to ask ‘the Government to ensure that the Vinmonopolet takes over the duty-free sale of alcoholic beverages by Avinor’s aviation activities when the agreement with Travel Retail Norway AS expires in 2022 and in an appropriate manner, and at the latest in the proposal for the 2019 government budget, informs the Storting about the progress of work and what legislative changes are being assessed’. Of course, the Christian People's Party will look at the investigation when it comes, but we have already flagged strong views on this. We believe that the takeover of tax-free sales will strengthen legitimacy towards the EU and stop the erosion of Norwegian alcohol policy as we see. For the Christian People's Party, this appears to be a win-win solution. We can strengthen the monopoly of wine as a system, and the fact that the monopoly of wine still loses market shares in favour of tax-free damage the monopoly of wine today, because the system itself is weakened towards the European Union, with which we know closely follows the monopoly system. They therefore accept the justification for public health, and this may be difficult to maintain in the long term if much of the turnover occurs outside the wine monopoly in the future. We can increase the revenue of the authorities. - In what way? In the case of sales via the Vinmonopolet, revenue goes to the State and not to commercial operators. This means that we prevent large surpluses of tax-free sales from disappearing out of Norway to foreign owners with commercial motives. Unfortunately, there is no majority in the UK today for our proposal for a decision. The Christian People's Party will therefore vote subsidiaryly for the proposal of the Workers' Party and SV, i.e. proposal No 1 in the setting, to bring the matter one step further. If the Stortinget now gets a case on this during 2018, it is important that no processes are initiated that prevent the acquisition of the Vinmonopole within that time. The Christian People's Party therefore supports the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that no negotiations are initiated with operators other than the Vinmonopole on the duty-free sale of alcoholic beverages by Avinor’s aviation activities.’ I take up the proposals of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2497	The representative Hans Fredrik Gruvan has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2502	In this debate, it may seem that we are debating for or against wine monopoly, but we are not. For the treatment of Prop. 1 LS for 2016-2017 asked the Stortinget Government to submit a case to the Stortinget assessing all the consequences of and necessary legislative changes to allow the Vinmonopolet to take over the duty-free sale of alcohol at Norwegian airports at the end of the current tendering period. Of course we're going to follow this up. We will investigate the matter, and we will come back to Stortinget in sufficient time to implement the necessary legislative changes and also to facilitate practical relations before the tendering period expires, if the Stortinget would conclude that the Vinmonopolet will take over the tax-free sale of alcohol at airports. This is a demanding matter, and it can have consequences in a wide range of areas. That is why we need a thorough review. We've already heard in some of the articles here that there are different angles and different focus on what this really means. Some people talk about small airports, some talk about the EU, etc., etc. It's just talking because we have to have a thorough and good review. Despite the existence of a decision to investigate the case, the representatives of the Central Party have made a new proposal that the Vinmonopolet should take over the duty-free sale. I have to say I'm a little surprised at that. So then you push aside – or want to push aside – the previous decision, which actually says something about doing a thorough job before we move around. In the proposal of the representatives, they wish to decide that the monopoly of wine should take over the duty-free sale without submitting to the Stortinget the assessments they have previously requested. I cannot support such a decision without further investigation and without a more complete decision-making basis. The case raises both legal, economic and practical questions and a more detailed assessment of them should serve as a basis for a sound decision. I believe it is in everyone's interest that the matter is carefully assessed, so that we have a good basis for taking a final decision on the matter. After all, it's all about caring for important interests. Both alcohol policy considerations, financial considerations and aerodrome operation considerations must be considered in this case. This was made clear by the representative Larsen in his statement. As regards the content of the investigation, I would like to clarify the following: we assume that what is to be investigated is whether the Vinmonopole should take over the tax-free sale on the basis of an exclusive right model and not on the basis of a tender model. The reason is that it would be problematic given the EEA legal situation that the wine monopoly is to participate in a bidding round. It has to take over, and this is something we want to look at. The investigation will be carried out in an inter-ministerial working group and at least four ministries are involved in this work. Necessary investigations are carried out from both Avinor and the Vinmonopolet, and not least from other actors where necessary. We have taken the aim of submitting the investigation to the Stortinget during the Storing session 2018-2019. When we haven't set this as an official deadline, it's because we want to take into account that there may be a need for further investigation along the way. The government will present an investigation during the pouring period that will allow Storting to assess any acquisition of the tax-free sale at the end of the tendering period. I therefore do not see that it is appropriate at this stage to adopt the proposal to take over the Vinmonopolet tax-free sale, so I do not wish the draft representative to be adopted. In addition, if followed by the usual order, the tender may have been negotiated around 2021. Early harvest 2020 must be clarified. That's almost three more years. Then it goes without saying that we have time to do a thorough job, and that we will come back to the matter as soon as this is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2523	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2528	More than one year ago, the size of the stock has ordered a case from the government to assess all the consequences of and necessary legislative changes for the wine monopoly to take over the duty-free sale of alcohol at Norwegian airports at the end of the applicable tendering periods. The council now said a lot about what the government is going to do, little about what the government has done. The impression, therefore, is that the government has not started this work. Is it true, and in that case what is the result of this inertia? And if that's not true, what have you done so far with the mission from Stortinget, which has been waiting for over a year already?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2533	As I said in my post, there are several departments involved here. That means you make recordings, you have Avinor with which you have a close dialogue – and it takes some time. The decision we made was taken in 2016. I myself was in Stortinget as a wholesaler and attended and decided at the end of my period. And it takes time, just because you have to see all the different factors that play a role here. Some of these factors have been addressed by different representatives. That means we have to do a thorough job when we first get back to Stortinget with it. I was very clear in my post that we are seeing for ourselves that we can probably land this case in the 2018–2019 Grand Prix.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2538	I thank you for the answer and hope that the government will be more offensive to progress forward, because it doesn't seem like you've come all the world far – except that you've found that things take time. The recording by the members of the Committee on Transport and Communications of the Right, the Progressive Party and the Left shows that they consider that: ‘It is most appropriate for Avinor, through competitive tendering, to be given the possibility to ensure the highest possible revenue for aerodrome operations, including from the movement of duty-free goods’. In other words, it may seem that the government has already concluded that it is not a good idea for the wine monopoly to take over the duty-free sale of alcohol at Norwegian airports without competition. How can we be sure, then, that the matter that the government is going to deliver to Stortinget will give a credible assessment of whether it is wise to allow the Vinmonopolet to take over?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2550	This government is dealing with any majority decision that has come out of this room, and that is the responsibility we have. A comment from a committee grouping does not override a decision taken here. I want to repeat that here we are doing a thorough job, and we have to do that, because it has consequences in the different departments that are inside this, among other things. Ministry of Transport. The Vinmonopolet is now within the responsibility of the Ministry of Health and Health and my portfolio, but other departments are also involved in this. So when we come up with the matter, it will be thoroughly processed, and the representative can trust that we have done a serious and proper investigation and will be completely neutral to what may be of the views that have come before. This is the government's responsibility to deliver to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2557	First of all, I would like to say that it is not the case that the matter has not been settled. The government itself promotes a fairly comprehensive and good budgeting in the 2017 state budget, which was the result of a decision in the Stortinget a little earlier. This case has been solved many times, because we now want a clear decision from Stortinget. But I listened to what the state council said in earlier lines here that now the government will follow up. That's good, because it hasn't happened so far. But I want to ask the Council of State as Minister of Public Health: I want to assume that a Minister of Public Health is concerned about the Vinmonopolet and would like to strengthen the position of the Vinmonopolet. Is it the case that the Council of State does not care whether the tax-free sale is made by private companies or whether it can be used to strengthen the position of the Vinmonopolet as an important alcohol policy agent in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2565	I believe that one cannot oppose the other in terms of public health. As the representative Hoksrud was in here: if you have a glass of wine from a bottle sold from the Vinmonopolet or a bottle sold from another actor, I would not say that there is any difference with regard to the public health bit of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2570	Thanks for the answer. I think it's a very special response from a minister of public health. Then the Minister of Public Health says that it is the same whether it is the Vinmonopolet or a private company that is in charge of the alcohol store in Norway. When we know that the Vinmonopolet's position and their part of the hall is being pressed, it would have been a good thing if one had a minister of public health in Norway who wanted the Vinmonopolet well, and who saw that here we have to make sure that not an ever-increasing part of the alcohol hall happens outside the wine monopoly system. So I'm going to ask again: is it really true what I heard the answer was instead, that it is the same thing for the Minister of Public Health if the hall happens outside the wine monopoly regime and weakens the wine monopoly regime?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2577	What we're talking about is tax-free sales at airports. What I'm saying is that if a bottle is sold through a wine monopoly system at the airport or if it is sold through another actor – I can't see that it should have anything to say about the health effect of which actor is selling. Then we do not discuss the Vinmonopolet as such, outside the airport area, that is not what we are discussing today. The question I am considering is the sale at airports. That is what we are discussing today. How the Wine Monopoly is in general in the Norwegian community, is a completely different discussion, which we can probably take later.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2582	It has been said so much specifically in this debate from the government parties and the Labour Party that I think we need to ask for clarification from the Council of State, as this field can. Is it true that if we get a new owner – the sale is maintained, but that we only get a new owner – then the lights will be turned off in the districts, the airport at Telemark will be shut down, Torp will be shut down, local airports throughout the country will be shut down, and, on the other hand, the third runway will be built faster? I would like to know, from the Council of State, whether she believes this is a correct description of what is happening if the Vinmonopolet is allowed to operate the tax-free sale in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2587	The different views that are expressed in the public space as to whether or not the Vinmonopole should take over the tax-free sale shall not be taken into account. But in the case of cross-subsidy, which is – today – within the Avinor system, there will be consequences, as there is no doubt. How this should be put up in relation to capital if the monopoly of wine takes over, which many people have been involved in here in the debate, is a completely different discussion. It's an opportunity to look at it, and that's exactly what we're going to do in the investigation – what did this look like to meet the needs that are? But as the matter is today, with cross-subsidies, it's quite right. It's like this today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2592	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2599	I want to start by expressing an understanding for those who want a different operation of the tax-free sales in Norway. I understand that you are impatient, and I understand that you are concerned that the government is dragging your feet on this issue to such an extent that you may not be at risk of reaching the next deadline, which is in 2022. That is an understandable concern. When it is said, in this case, unfortunately, there is a hurry to cargo. I would warn Stortinget not to make any suggestions over the table in this way, which could have major consequences for aerodrome operations. Stortinget has already had bad experience with this. I aim in particular at the introduction of the seat charge, which during the night led to the closure of Rygge Airport in Østfold. It was an unfortunate decision, and it was a decision that the Storting should learn from. There is very much in this case that has not been clarified. So far, there has not been any mention that two thirds of the revenue from tax-free sales is not about alcohol at all. We buy candy, makeup and other things that make the district airports get income, and it's not about this decision at all. It's not clear. It is also not clear what is going to happen to the private airports. There has been a little talk about Torp here, but the owners of Rygge are actually now in the takeoff pit to start up airport operations again, and they feel a lot of uncertainty about the fact that such a case is floating around in the system without getting clarity in terms of their investments, and without getting new airlines in place. And not least, there is absolutely no guarantee that you will get a new operator of the tax-free system that ensures the district airports transfers to the same extent as they do today. Today, district airports receive 2.5 billion. kr in the year from the airports with profits. Can the representatives behind this proposal guarantee that this will happen in the future? If not, where do you want to take funds for the district airports from? So you could say that it's perhaps the government's fault that we're getting such a proposal on the table, because you've been too late to clarify the situation and to clarify what's possible for other airfield operators. That is what I want us to get in place as soon as possible, preferably by 2018, which is being adopted here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2612	The proposal of the representatives of the Central Party’s depositors to allow the Vinmonopolet to take over the tax-free sale of alcoholic beverages by Avinor’s aviation companies gives reason to reflect on the consequences of this proposal. Of the total income of Avinor, 25 p.m., approx. 2.5 B.C.E. kr, from the tax-free-sal. It's money that Avinor uses to keep up at airports around the country, including those airports that are not profitable, and it's often known in the districts. Only 8 of the 45 Airports in Avinor have surplus. Central to the subsidisation of the Ulönam airports are revenues from tax-free. This is what I experience as something strange from the Center Party, which claims to be a district party – disregarding this model that is the basis for Avinor to subsidize Ulöname Airports. An argument used is that you want to reduce the volume of alcoholic beverages. But the wine monopoly assumes that they will sell as much tax-free alcohol as in the current system. So the argument falls under the business model. Today, the Transport and Communications Committee has met with Avinor, and the Avinor leadership is naturally busy and concerned about this proposal, if it would get more. The group manager of Avinor did well to see that reduced revenue for Avinor means lower investment levels, poorer infrastructure and reduced exchange capacity, and there may be a need for increased airport charges, which in turn provide a poorer route offer in Norway. The CEO further said that it is unlikely important for Avinor to keep the tax-free system, that the proposal currently under consideration is the worst for Avinor, and that this is so important for Avinor's business that it must be properly implemented. Right is the fact that Avinor is given good and sustainable framework conditions that ensure the operation and maintenance of airports throughout the country, including those that are not profitable. With this proposal for a representative, the Central Party creates uncertainty about the operating basis of Avinor. The legal basis for the monopoly of the wine monopoly is unclear, and it has no health effect, but has major negative consequences for Avinor. It is strange that the Centre Party is so sure that the Vinmonopolet are entitled to operate the tax-free hall of alcoholic goods at Norwegian Airports, without finding out what consequences it will have for the route supply in Norway, and the legal basis for such an award to the Vinmonopolet.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2625	I assume that there are good intentions behind when the Central Party spends its time on a proposal to allow the Vinmonopolet to take over the tax-free sale of alcohol, while they know that the government will make an assessment around this in good time before today's tendering period is over. If I'm unsure about the motive behind the proposal, I might understand even less of the argument used for the wine monopoly to take over the sale of alcohol at Norwegian airports. Is it the Central Party's great concern that people buy with them some bottles of wine after the flight, which is behind the proposal? Is it a desire for people to drink less alcohol? Or is it the ideology of building large state monopolies that is the motive? The arguments that reference is made to the fact that tax-free sales lead to an increase in alcohol consumption and the loss of turnover of the wine monopoly contrast with each other. In fact, if the tax-free sales steal sales from the Vinmonopole, the total consumption cannot be greater than it would have been without the tax-free sales, since the the thesis would then be that this turnover would instead occur in the other premises of the Vinmonopole. And if that's how you think it's an extra sale and therefore more consumption of alcohol because of the tax-free sale, you have to ask the question: what? In most of the countries from which you fly, the price of alcohol is the same or lower than that at the tax-free shop at Norwegian airports. Therefore, many people are waiting for Norway to buy some bottles of wine with them, for reasons of convenience, rather than price. It is therefore not certain that neither the purchase nor consumption of alcohol by the Nordics would have been reduced if the centre lot were to be passed at some point in order to complete all the sales of alcohol at Norwegian airports. The consequence, however, would be that the purchase would be made in the country from which you are travelling, instead of at the airport in Norway. It may therefore be justified to ask whether moving the duty-free sale of alcohol from Norway to the rest of the world is the actual policy of the Centre Party. And what will happen to the sale of all the other products we know from tax-free sales, such as tobacco, perfume and sweets? Will it be possible to achieve the same agreements that secure Avinor's current revenues – which provide the economic basis for us to have the airports we currently have in the districts – or will the consequences perhaps be that airports need to be closed down? I started by saying that there are certainly good intentions behind the proposal of the Central Party. But I think the Center Party also understands that it may be wise to wait for the government's investigation in this matter. The drinking habits of the Norwegian people do not necessarily change even if the Central Party wants to decide that they will. Changes adopted by the Stortinget should be for the benefit of the citizens, and I am not sure that the proposal of the Central Party in the Chamber today is.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2640	On some of the representatives we have heard from the pulpit today, it may seem that the centre party has a number of hidden and very mysterious intentions with this representative proposal. But it's not like that, and now the representatives Engeli Johansen and Hoksrud should listen very well after: The purpose of this proposal is really quite simple. Firstly, we must strengthen the wine monopoly as a system; we cannot have an alternative system that undermines the wine monopoly. Secondly, we must prevent large profits from the tax-free system from going into the pockets of foreign private operators, when they could have gone to, and helped to strengthen the wine monopoly. Thirdly, we are quite clear that a prerequisite is that we should ensure the continued operation and maintenance of aerodromes throughout the country. And fourth, we will stop the government's training to get back to Stortinget with the case, so that one can make necessary further investigations and legislative changes in good time before 2022. This is not an attack on the tax-free system, it's about who's going to operate the scheme. It should be clear to most people that our intention is to strengthen the wine monopoly by being the player who sells alcoholic beverages in Norway. It makes no sense for the tax-free system at Norwegian airports to be an exception. At present, the money goes from the consumption of alcohol by the Nordics in their pockets to private operators, to German companies and large capital, while the funds could have been used for social purposes in Norway. The claim throughout the debate has been that no investigation has taken place. That's not true. This has been determined, the monopoly of wine itself has come to the conclusion that there are no practical, economic or legal obstacles to the operation of the tax-free system. Nor has it been considered that Avinor’s income will be impaired as a result of the takeover of the wine monopoly. Now it's a natural time to make a principle decision that you want the Wine Monopoly to take over the tax-free system, precisely because the government is very slow to come back to the Storting with this important matter, which we can't postpone for long. Finally, I would also like to comment that it is very strange that we have a minister of public health who says in Stortinget that it does not matter whether a wine bottle is sold by the Vinmonopolet or by a private company. The big difference is that sales from the Vinmonopolet strengthen an actor who has an important alcohol policy role in Norway, which is responsible for selling, and whose aim is to limit the adverse effects of alcoholic beverages — while sales from tax-free private operators go straight in the pocket of a private company that does not pursue social purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2653	Foreign aviation authorities look to Norway. They look at Norway because in such a long country, which is so pig-grown, and which has so low population, we can have so many well-functioning airports. Yes, Norway is unique in this area as well. We have 45 airports, there only 20 pst. of which they are going in profit. They represent quite a large majority of the travelers, but generate a profit, so that Avinor can allow the rest of the 80 pst, even if they go with a deficit. That's what we call the Avinor model. It is this model that is the reason why the Workers' Party does not want to vote in favour of the proposal of the Centre Party. The Transport Committee, as several have mentioned, has today met with Avinor. In fact, they expressed strong concern about the adoption of an accelerated decision now, before the investigation has been carried out, and before the consequences of a decision are known and clear. Tax-free sales are important for the sustainability of the Avinor model without State subsidies. The working party wishes to await the investigation to be made by the government. It's been more than a year since the Storting asked for this. Patience is now so sluggish that – together with the Socialist Left – we ask in our own proposal that this investigation be completed during the current year. The monopoly of wine is something about which the Workers' Party hangs. We have a decision that we will consider letting them take over the tax-free sale at Norwegian airports. I take away from the fact that the Workers' Party is intriguing with the proposals of the Centre Party. That's the other thing that does. We will assess this, but we see, as I said, that there are some challenges to the proposal, including with regard to the Avinor model. Before these challenges are resolved and possibly cleared up, we will not be in favour of such a transfer of sales. But the government must not push this investigation any more, so that we are in conflict with a new tendering period. They have had time to do this investigation, but they must not waste any more in time waiting. That is why we have proposed what we have, namely that by the end of the year this investigation must be in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2669	This case is not about being in favour of or against the Wine Monopoly, which has been discussed by others. It may be more about being against private workplaces. In this way it is not strange that SV cheers. It is more worrying that the Center Party, which in every case wants to be a defender of the districts, does not see that this proposal most threatening airports and workplaces in just District Norway. The proposal of the Centre Party assumes that the revenue of Avinor and aerodrome operations shall not decrease. But if competition disappears and is centralised into a monopolistic, it will have consequences for income and profitability. Avinor is made dependent on State budget grants from the Stortinget – in competition for other good purposes. So the Transport Committee has had a meeting with Avinor today. We have also met with NHO Aviation in our party. They are very critical and claim that this threatens Avinor's operating model. We do not see any health effects, cf. Council conclusions on the European Union's role in the field of The representative Toppe confirmed here today that the Vinmonopolet has said that they want to sell as much alcohol as today's. It is a very uncertain legal basis in terms of, among other things. illegal State aid, and it will have negative economic consequences, which are not known of the other consequences, such as: may be a lower level of investment in airport development. A lower level of infrastructure could mean a lower rate of return from Avinor, and, in the worst case, increased airport charges may be required, resulting in a lower level of service provision. Moving the proceeds from Avinor to the Vinmonopolet – just a little bit smaller and via Stortinget – is not a good solution. But a good solution can be that the Vinmonopoly can freely participate in the competition to trade tax-free at Norwegian airports – and it would be very nice if they won.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2680	The monopoly of wine has an important social policy role in Norway, which is widespread in the Norwegian people, and in this way it is also an important social actor. In the Workers' Party we say that we consider having the Vinmonopolet take over the tax-free sale at our airports, but the Workers' Party has not concluded and is aware that many fields need to be illuminated before this can be concluded. Tax-free sales are of great importance to Avinor and to the financing of our airports. As others from the Transport Committee have mentioned, we have visited Avinor today. They're warning us this, but Avinor is also equally clear that they would be willing to take over the tax-free sale themselves. Today they sell in their own direction, among others. Tromsø and Ålesund. This is one of the areas that we should light up when the government comes back to Stortingen with the investigation of this matter. The working party wants to get ahead of the matter, so that we can have a clean relationship with a new bidding round. Not all of our airports are profitable, with which many have concluded. We're dependent on cross-subsidies. Only eight airports are going in profit, but all the others – and the eight – are part of the good airport structure that we have in Norway. For Finnmark's part, we have eleven airports, and for us, it's part of our life's nerve. We have chosen nationally to contribute tax-free sales to Avinor's profit and loss account. It may be a little special, you can see that, but nevertheless it has helped to give us a very good airline structure. We look forward to the government returning to Stortinget with an assessment of the matter, and the Labour Party is ready to debate it then. It is a point to consider carefully whether a profit from the tax-free sale should be made for non-profit purposes, or in the pocket of a foreign company. It is an equally important point to consider legal, economic and practical issues, and that we do not add up to schemes that are not approved by ESA. This whole wide field needs to be properly assessed so that we can make qualified and good decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2695	There is a special debate. Most argue as if the Centre Party proposes the full winding-up of the tax-free scheme. That's not what we're proposing. The representative Carl-Erik Grimstad from the Left believes that the case does not belong in the Health Committee. But how can a matter about the position of the Vinmonopolet in society not be heard at home in the Health Committee? He thinks we don't distinguish between Avinor's airports and other, private, airports. Then he has to read the proposal. The proposal deals with Avinor's airports. The representative believes that it is problematic towards the EEA. Here, the government itself has made a statement in the 2017 government budget that just settled the situation and concludes a different one. The representative Solveig Sundbø Abrahamsen just said that we are proposing to change the funding model. No, we don't. One shall still have revenue from the tax-free sales to Avinor. So this has been done in a statement in the 2017 state budget. The representative Siv Jacobsen described it as we made a proposal over the table, and compared it to plastic bags and airsats. I almost don't have a word for how this can take off. We have a proposal. It has been possible to provide written audio output. We're basing it on a wide range of things that the Storting has asked for in the past. I would like to ask the representatives of the Labour Party, the Progress Party, the Left and the Right and the other skeptics what knowledge and competence do they have to mistrust the Vinmonopolet's own assessments in this matter of what they will be able to offer in a contract? To the representative Jonny Finstad, who wants to have a competition: that's a point. Then I would like to remind you that the last tax-free agreement was passed, it happened without competition. Is it so that a continuation of an agreement is possible if it is passed on to a private company, but doomsday if it is passed on to the Vinmonopolet? Many have referred to the Nordlys article. He would have been good if he had been based on facts, but he isn't. The centre batch proposes something as simple, of course and obvious as taking over the sale of free alcohol at Norwegian airports. No charges shall be changed, no aerodromes shall be closed. The landing lights will be guaranteed to light on Norwegian small airports also in the future, even if the Vinmonopolet is behind the checkout in the taxi-free shops.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2708	The centre party proposes to have the Vinmonopole take over the tax-free sale of alcoholic beverages at Avinor's airports. The centre party therefore wants the Stortinget to decide that the Vinmonopolet will have a monopoly on all sales of alcoholic goods at Norwegian airports, without considering or assessing the consequences of such a solution. The size has already taken a decision asking the Government to file a case for the Storting in which the consequences of and necessary legislative changes to take over the wine monopoly at the end of the current tendering period are to be assessed. It is very special that the Centre Party cannot wait for this investigation until they propose to grant the Vinmonopolet monopoly on the sale of alcoholic goods at Norwegian airports. I would like to point out that there seems to be no strong alcohol policy justification for the proposal, because it is assumed that the tax-free sale of alcohol should have the same opening hours as today and be subject to the same alcohol policy guidelines and legislation. It must certainly be most appropriate for Avinor, through competitive tendering, to have the option of ensuring maximum revenue for aerodrome operations, including from the placing on the market of tax-free products. It will be fully possible for the Vinmonopoly to also participate in such competition. I fear the consequences the proposal would have for the flight offer to the country's inhabitants if it had received a majority, because the tax-free sale today contributes to the financing of the operation and maintenance of all airports in the Avinor system. Avinor estimates a loss of 1 billion. kr if the wine monopoly was to be granted a monopoly on duty-free sales. The calculations are based on the assumption that Avinor, among others, cannot adjust the rental price in the competitive bidding process and that it will result in lost revenue. However, the monopoly on wine, on its part, claims that they can ensure Avinor's equal income, but do not provide any concrete figures that can confirm it. Of today's airports, only eight are going in profit. So the rest of the country's airports depend on Avinor having good revenues to run them. I agree with those who fear that the proposal of the Central Party will undermine the funding model that Avinor is using today to maintain today's airport structure in the districts. It is necessary to be able to see the tax-free debate and the question of financing small airports in the districts with few passengers in the context. In order to cover the loss of revenue in Avinor’s calculations, there is thus the choice between an increase in charges for the country’s air passengers, a significant cut in the number of aerodromes and that unprofitable airports have to fight for annual funding from the State budget. And it's the districts that want to bleed the most. I am therefore very pleased that a majority in the Grand Duchy today seems to vote against this proposal from the Central Party, so that the whole country, including District Norway, can have a well-functioning flight offer in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2717	I have a great deal of understanding that the Minister of Older People and Public Health does not know the situation at Torp Airport in detail, but to the representative Wilkinson I can say that at Torp Airport there is a competitive outsourcing of the tax-free sale. This leads to income optimization on Torp. Should the wine monopoly take over at Torp, which is a likely development of this proposal, this offer will have to be divided into two: the wine monopoly takes care of the wine and spirits, while others have to take care of the rest of the tax-free sale. It will, and this documents Torp Airport, lead to a loss of revenue at the aerodrome currently operating at marginal profit. There are 2 million travelers at Torp Airport today, and the airport has the capacity to take nearly 3 million. Should Torp be laid down, it is an automatic process in that we are thus pressured to build a third runway on the Gardermoen, as both the representative Wilkinson and, I believe, the representative Kjersti Toppe are strongly opposed. That's it. Moreover, to the representative Jacobsen: I thought it is now documented that Ryanair’s fear of Norwegian trade movement was the cause of the closure of Rygge, and not the government’s proposal. I don't think it's the least mysterious thing about the proposal of the Center Party, as it's been suggested. The party goes straight into misery with open eyes and to everyone's eyes. Let's say that the Vinmonopolet takes over, and that this way the company is going to transfer its income to the Ministry of Transport's budget. In this way, I allow myself to refer to a post in the Altapost yesterday from the head of the Paranoia region of Norway — or Paranoia region of Norway, as Wilkinson might have called it — which reads: ‘Should the future airport structure depend on annual budgetary struggles at Stortinget, it is easy to understand [[...]] I agree with this and am proud that I am in this way conducting a fight on behalf of the communication offer in District Norway. I just didn't think the Center Party was going to be my main opponent in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2731	The interests of the Workers' Party in this case are the interests of the Community. But just to take care of those interests, we think it is right to get a well-lit case first. The working party is concerned with the legitimacy of the Vinmonopoly, and we are concerned that the tax-free sales should not undermine the Vinmonopoly. We sincerely want to see if the Vinmonopole can take over the operation of the tax-free sale. So there should be no sea between the Center Party and SV and the Workers' Party in this case. I don't want to get involved with the Toppe proposal, but I have to be allowed to refer to the concerns of serious actors like Avinor, Sandefjord Airport, Parat or Nordlys. Avinor is not a less serious or less State actor than the Vinmonopolet. When they disagree on what the consequences will be, it might be wise to get a good answer to that first. Wilkinson said it was disappointing that the Workers' Party was unable to make a clear decision. I can reassure Mr Wilkinson that the Labour Party will be able to make a clear decision, but we also want to make a good decision. Then the consequences of the decisions we are making must be clear, and they are not today. Wilkinson concludes that Avinor’s revenues will not be affected by whether the Vinmonopolet or Travel Retail Norway is responsible for taxfree – it’s almost just a push of a button. Wilkinson may be better aware of this than Avinor, but no later than today, Avinor himself has warned against both an uncertain legal basis and negative economic consequences. We should take those signals seriously and clarify them first. If it turns out that Wilkinson is right to just press that button, so that this is a win-win situation for the community, then of course it will be good opportunities, after a thorough investigation, to bring the Workers' Party with him on the team. For that would be a good decision to be made in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2742	The centre party, SV and the Christian People's Party make this a question of whether or not a supporter of the wine monopoly. I believe that the same parties have been less concerned about how Norwegian airports should be financed. This case is about who is going to sell alcohol at Avinor airports, and this is about the economy of airports, and not a yes or no to the Vinmonopolet. I would like to welcome the wine monopoly to submit tenders in the same way as all other potential actors, but then within the entire product range, not only within alcohol. But I am strongly opposed to the proposal of the Centre Party, because it will result in a significantly more expensive tax-free regime than the one we have today. Should the wine monopoly be granted exclusive right to sell alcohol, as the proposal is formulated, the tax-free shops must be divided into two, and goods such as chocolate, perfume, etc. must be sold by a separate company. This means that more people have to be hired who will lose the profit of the total tax-free sales. Surpluses from tax-free sales should not be used as labour market measures but should be used to strengthen the ability of airports to operate and invest in a good and safe way. This debate has shown that transferring duty-free sales to the Vinmonopole is a highly complex and complex issue. The debate shows at least how important it is for the government's investigation to be completed before entering into and deciding whether or not the Vinmonopolet should have exclusive rights. The debate also shows that this is not at all a matter which should be dealt with urgently until we have the technical basis to reach a good decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2753	The representative Kjersti Top has the word twice before and gets the word to a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2758	I would like to thank you for all the factual and unsubstantiated contributions on this matter. I need to make it clear that this is not a matter of urgency. We have had many reports on this, and the largest and most extensive came in the 2017 state budget. It is on that basis that we are now making a proposal to ensure progress in this matter. To the representative Grimstad, who talks about Torp: Our proposal still deals with the airports of Avinor. And to what is insinuated about consequences for Torp: I don't know where one takes it from. I am pleased with the last article by the representative Tellef Mørland, which shows that the Labour Party has a will for the Vinmonopolet. So we are making our proposal, and we are voting in a subsidiary way for the Labour Party's proposal, so that we have a majority today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2771	The top of the center party says that the center party today makes the only thing understandable. But we know that such a decision can have consequences for airports in the districts, and what is so understandable about the central party's policy? Or isn't the Center Party really so concerned that even people in the districts should have access to their own airports? Does the Central Party really think that people will buy less alcohol at the airport just the logo at the store will be different? Or is the Center Party not so concerned with the number of bottles of alcohol sold, only there are state companies behind it? The representative of Enger Mehl, also from the Centre Party, is most concerned about strengthening the Wine Monopoly and fears that profits will end up in private pockets. Yeah, I guess that's where the elephant is: that the center party no longer thinks it's okay that private businesses can make money and go with profits. So it's the Central Party's new ideology and the desire to compete with the Socialist Left which is the real motive for the proposal, not the reason. Personally, I think a bottle of red wine gives just as much or as little health no matter where it is purchased. SVs Wilkinson is talking about the short-range network and that this change will not have consequences for the short-range network. It may be, but it is not the short-haul network that is the matter today. What we've been talking about are the many airports that don't belong to the short-haul network, but pure commercial airports that don't have any profit, and that depend on, among other things. this surplus in order to be allowed to exist at all. Some nuances are good to bring. That is exactly why the majority are voting down the policy of the Left Party and the Left Party today and are waiting for the government's assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2780	It cannot be said that a representative is standing here saying that he loves monopolies. I definitely don't. I dare remember that if it was just Ford, when they started to make a car, which had continued to produce a car, we would not have gotten Tesla or other great, amazing cars that have arrived. It is precisely because it has been competitive and has not been a monopoly. But the representative Wilkinson clearly seems that it's okay that all shoes are the same, and that all dresses are the same. We might have had a little problem if it's the kind of monopolies Wilkinson loves. This is not about monopoly or not. This is about who should be allowed to sell alcoholic beverages at airports, or maybe the Wine Monopoly should start selling creams, perfumes, candy, tobacco – tobacco is fine, because it is sold today. So things that they're not selling today are now going to have to start selling the monopoly of wine, at least if the majority's argument is to be a believer. I have respect for the Christian People's Party, which says they want to reduce sales. That means that there will be less money left to operate airports and to expand the airports. But the other parties, with Wilkinsons at their head, have always argued that you should have the same amount of money. And then you try a cheap rhetorical point when you claim that this is about the fact that instead of going to foreign terrible capitalists who have competed with everyone else, including Norwegian companies, about being allowed to deliver these services, you could go to kindergarten or other things. This is not money that will go to kindergarten or other social things, but to actually keep building up the infrastructure at the airports in the country. Because that's what's going to happen here. It goes to Avinor, who's gonna take care of the airport structure and make sure we can expand and maintain and get better airports around the country. To me it's like this: I know that for Bengt Rune in Finnmark, this is his collective offer, this is his bus, and that's the way it is with other residents in District Norway. This is the bus and the collective service they need to ensure good business development, have businesses and have people in work. It is important for the districts, and therefore good infrastructure at airports is important. That's why I think it's the wrong step to go that minority – fortunately – now wants to go. And that's why I'm very concerned that I think it's healthy with competition, and that you spend the money and the profits to secure the infrastructure at the airports. It's worth noting that the Center Party has suddenly become against everything that's private. Clearly, private people who can make money are the argument for Toppe and the other representative of the Central Party from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2794	Everyone has to wear the same shoes, and now we are against all private profits – there must be some limits to how the debates in this room are going. Yes, I like the wine monopoly, so does the majority in Norway. So if the Advancement Party thinks that like the Wine Monopoly means that you want everyone to wear the same shoes, we have a very strange future ahead of us. We have had a debate where not changing the cross-financing does not change anything about the tax-free quota. When you get off the plane, you can still buy tax-free perfectly. There's another logo at the store. But the simple change that one has to have a new top leader must mean that the lights are to be switched off in the districts, the Telemark airport is to be shut down, Torp is to be shut down, the third runway will be built faster, local airports will be shut down – there will be a lower route offer in Norway. I think it is good that this debate is over, because there is clearly a collective confusion on the right hand side and on the Labour Party. The proposers wish to maintain the tax-free system, but with a different organisation of ownership. So I hope the next debate becomes a little more useful and with a little less distrust than in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2803	The representative Burd Hoksrud has spoken the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2808	I think the representative Wilkinson should learn where the airports with tax-free are. In Telemark we have no airports with tax-free, but when the counties Vestfold and Telemark have joined, we get an airport at Torp. When the representative Wilkinson later feels as if this does not have consequences for Torp, I think he should read the statements from the airport at Torp. Then I record that it was not like Wilkinson loved monopolies – he moderated that a little now in his last post.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2815	Then I think the Storting can actually go in for landing when this is the case, because more people have not asked for the word to cause no. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2832	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that – within the allocated speaking time – up to five rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2841	Here in Stortinget we deal with issues that concern everyone in society, many of us, and sometimes a few. This representative proposal by Mr V. Bollestad and Mr Wilkinson is so decided in the last category, but just as fully a matter of principle and importance for them. Fortunately, very few children in this country live in nursing homes contrary to the best of their children and the wishes of their parents. But it happens, and it will end up with an overall health and care committee. The few that apply, need national policies on how this should be, or rather not be, no matter which municipality you grow up in here in the country. Then it is said that Municipality-Norway in general extends far in order to avoid the placement of children in nursing homes. It's going to be the wrong focus to define what we're doing now, as an intervention in municipal freedom, where the state interferes and describes a certain way the municipalities are going to do their job. But, surprisingly, it was the lead that State Councillor Bent Höie chose to put on in his letter to the Committee on this proposal for a representative. Then I hope the new Council of State with this responsibility will follow up the decision enthusiastically. In general, I believe that young people do not belong in nursing homes, and this matter is even about preventing children from coming to hospital in violation of the child's best and parents' wishes. This is so seaworthy that the government parties in the committee also ignore the fact that the Minister of Health advises against making the decision we are now bringing together. The entire Committee is behind the recommendation that the Storting should join the three decision-making points: The Government shall promote the necessary legislative or regulatory changes that put this in place and it shall immediately be made clear to the municipalities that children in nursing homes against the wishes of the family and the best interests of the child are contrary to the intention of the Storting and must cease to exist. We also agree that the government must come to Stortingen with a case with information on the use of institutional space in this way. The Committee believes it is clear that the health care home does not meet the conditions of the supervisor that came in 2009 in the context of the nationwide supervision carried out with municipal social and health services for children in children’s homes. Its name is, among other things, that those living together must, as far as possible, be consistent with their age, interests and needs. Again: This is a quite obvious matter. The economy of municipalities may also be affected here as regards the possibilities for obtaining good offers. The fact that the government parties now share our concerns about increasing the focus of the grant scheme on particularly resource-intensive health and care services for individuals promises good for the 2019 budget. And I want to add: the government will have to make a better arrangement in the revised national budget this year. Many people would appreciate that very much, and it's a big need. The Committee agrees that local authorities are too high, and we fear that this will prevent us from strengthening the provision of the children we are talking about here. An overall committee also considers that there is a need to review the system of investment grants for nursing homes and homes, in order to ensure that it provides incentives to choose good housing solutions for children. I am very pleased with the consensus that has been reached for the benefit of the children and families – today and for the future. And kindly as I am around this, I would also conclude that in this matter the committee has proven itself from its best side.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2862	Children shall not be forced to live in nursing homes against the wishes of their parents and the best interests of their children. There's a four-year-old boy living in Northernland who's in great need of care. The whole family was supposed to live together in the new house, but four years after the boy was born, he had not yet been allowed to move home. Every evening he had to send him down to the hospital to sleep there. There were no medical reasons why he could not live at home, and that was not the parents' wish. It wasn't for the boy. Sick kids, like this boy, are gonna be home with Mom and Dad. The family shall not be forced to send the children away from home. I am proud and pleased that the proposal from the SV and the Christian People's Party will have a majority today. This will end. Children will be allowed to live at home. Municipalities shall not be able to save money by forcing children into nursing homes. As an attachment to the case, the letter from former Minister of Care Bent Höie, where he advises the Stortinget not to adopt the proposal of the SV and the Christian People's Party, a proposal that ensures the children. He argues instead that the municipalities have to choose even if they want to force children into nursing homes at the best of their children and their parents' wishes. If this is the right-wing Council’s version of patients’ health services, patients in Norway should be happy that an overall health committee, including the right-hand side, puts Höie firmly in place. This is a good example of the fact that the Storting together can take responsibility for the best of the children. Municipalities will not be able to save money to offer poorer offers to their children. The size of the population makes an important decision for the benefit of sick children and their families throughout Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2879	When the representative, Olaug Bollestad, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, promoted this proposal together with SV, it was in response to the fact that some municipalities actually place children in nursing homes, contrary to the wishes of the child and its parents. Kids aren't supposed to live in a nursing home. It's not a form of residence that's suitable for children. This has been a broad political consensus for many years. Nevertheless, some municipalities place children in hospitals, contrary to the rights of the child, contrary to the best of the child and contrary to the wishes of the parents. Children have the right to family life and safety. Children have the right to live with their parents. By placing children in institutions such as nursing homes, contrary to the wishes of their parents, young people with serious illness or disabilities take what they are entitled to, namely to be treated with dignity and independence. We promoted the proposal because we thought it was time for an overall political Norway to put its foot down firmly for this kind of practice. Now all the parties have gathered to ask the government to promote the necessary legislative and/or regulatory changes to ensure that municipalities cannot accommodate children in nursing homes in violation of the wishes of the family and the best interests of the child. That's good, and we're looking forward to the government following this up. In addition, the government asks for a separate case to be brought back with information on the use of institutional facilities for children in violation of the child’s best interests and the wishes of the family, because it is important that the Stortinge can know what the status is. It also asks the government to immediately clarify to the municipalities that the practice of living in nursing homes against the wishes of the family and the best interests of the child should cease and is contrary to the Stortinge's intention. The government must ensure that the leaders of the Storing are actually followed up. The decisions taken today are very important for those children and families who experience this as unworthy treatment. The size sends out this clear signal, which now needs to be followed up in practice. One of the municipalities mentioned in the proposal is Klepp. Now Klepp has decided to build his own children's home, and that's very good. The aim is that no children are placed in institutions such as nursing homes contrary to the wishes of their own or their parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2894	I really didn't intend to take the word in the matter. Because we agree on the content here. Children and young people with disabilities should have the most independent life possible, although they are strongly in need of help. I fully agree with the proposers that children and young people should not live in nursing homes and that a nursing home is not a suitable place for children. And I can't repeat often enough how important it is that the provision of services to children is developed in cooperation with the child and not least with the child's family. Every child and family coming into contact with the public shall be met in a comprehensive manner, and they shall receive the assistance they need. The system shall be adapted to the user and not vice versa. There is also one reason why this government has recently ensured that the child’s right of participation is further specified in the Patient and User Rights Act. Municipalities themselves deal with many of the challenges that come with children who have a major need for health care. That's where the kids have their everyday lives with their families. I have great faith in what municipalities can do if they go in to find good solutions to care for the child’s need for health care, while at the same time paying attention to the child’s need for closeness and not least the care they need from the family. It's about putting the child's needs in the center. Luckily, the exceptions are that children receive all or part of their services in hospitals, and it is important – and that is right – that municipalities should go far in order to avoid this happening. Although it is largely due to the current law that children should not, as a general rule, live in a nursing home, I see that it can be argued that this should be made even more clear by legislation. It is important, however, that any prohibition does not prevent the use of the competences and opportunities available to the municipality in its utility in cases where it is best for children, in line with the requirements of safety. The child's woe and well must be in the driver's seat when we look at the possibilities for possible changes in the rules. The number of young people in institutions varies slightly from year to year, but has shown a weak downward trend in recent years. The Health Directorate has been given a number of years to ensure that the county officials have an overview and follow-up of municipalities that have young people living in nursing homes. The municipality shall notify the county of the number of young residents aged 18 to 49. They shall inform of the time of the transfer, of their wish for another form of residence or of the intention of the municipality to move the person to another dwelling. The County Council shall also provide guidance to the municipalities in order to find a satisfactory solution. When a young person is offered housing outside of an institution, the municipality may reduce its additional costs through the top-level funding scheme for resource-intensive services. The majority of the committee also asks the government to return to Stortinget with its own briefing on the use of institutional space in violation of the child's best interests and the wishes of the family. I would like to assess whether the reporting tasks of the counties should be extended to children under the age of 18. In this case, the county councillors will be assigned to follow-up and, not least, to provide guidance to municipalities in the case of children living in nursing homes, so that municipalities can offer families good solutions. I would also ask that the county officials make it clear to the municipalities that a practice in which children live in nursing homes as a permanent scheme ceases. Finally, Mr Hagebakken, I will follow up enthusiastically, in line with what the representative wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2915	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2920	The articles of the Council of State promise well. So when we get together here, it makes sense that you're following up effectively. I took the floor because the Council of State mentioned the top-level funding scheme for particularly resource-intensive users. It is worth noting that a unanimous committee expresses concern about the mechanism as it is now, where the ownership of municipalities has steadily increased. We're actually expressing fear that this can also go beyond the service offer that we're currently busy getting better, to get our children out of nursing homes. When will the Council of State be able to follow up the overall message, if not in the form of decisions, then in such a clear form, from the Health and Welfare Committee and tonight from the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2929	This is an important matter, and I am particularly concerned about the rights of children and young people in society in general. I've been pretty clear in my speech. That was one of the reasons why I decided to keep the post as I had planned, to just make it visible that this is taken up, and that this is a matter which I – when it now comes back to me – will do a good and thorough job with, and come back with as quickly as I can.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2934	I would then like to thank the Council of State for its optimistic response.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2939	Very nice.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2945	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2952	Although we're done discussing tax-free for today, it might be in place to remind you of a little rarity. The representative of Wilkinson made a large number out of the fact that the Minister of Health and Welfare had not advised to adopt this proposal, and when a Council of State is to come to the Stortinget and decide on a Document 8 proposal, he can either recommend it or advise it against it. It's quite common that it's defamation. It is also said that we are now making a strong deal with the Minister for Health's answers. I am very much responding to that. The letter of reply I have here states quite carefully why you have come up with a refusal. And once we have agreed to the proposal – and I support what the rapporteur here has said about the proposal – it is because it may be useful to look at it. But what is contained in the text of the proposal for a representative is not, in fact, a majority. That is a different wording we are adopting today. There has been a good work in the committee, and it could have been a good debate if we had stayed a little bit more on the ground. What is stated in the letter of reply is, among other things, that the Council of State has the impression that the municipalities extend for a long time. This is reported, the county councillors have an additional responsibility to follow up, and in addition, the municipalities that know the user and the relatives are the best. That's what's behind this. So I think we'll rather be glad that we have a majority party again, and the majority in Stortinget is making a good decision today. I am pleased about that, and I would like to thank the rapporteurs for a good document 8.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2963	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2979	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that – within the allocated speaking time – up to five rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e2988	In this case, the Health and Welfare Committee has taken a decision on a proposal from the SV to ensure the openness of health and care institutions carrying out community services. The Committee has spent a lot of time dealing with these issues, including: asked the government to answer several questions raised by the Committee on the subject. The Committee has also received written submissions on the matter. In its proposal, proposers point out that today private institutions are not subject to the same requirement to comply with the administrative laws, public law and archive laws as public institutions. The suggestion providers write: «Private institutions may also refrain from participating in municipal or state investments and joint user surveys.» A joint committee emphasises in the setting that the Norwegian health system has great confidence in the population. This trust is important to take care of. To ensure this, you need to be as open as possible about both the public service provision and the private services being run under public law. That is where the Committee is consulted. Users of private services funded by the public must have the same rights as those which use public services. It is very gratifying that a joint committee is behind the proposal for Decision I in the vote. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to ensure that municipalities are obliged, through existing reporting procedures and agreements, to ensure the transparency and transparency of health and care services carried out under municipal or local authority supervision, and to promote any legislative proposals necessary to achieve this.’ A plurality of the Committee consisting of the Labour Party, the Centre Party, SV and the Christian People's Party is behind Decision II of the Constitution, to ask the government to assess how to ensure that actors receiving public support for the operation of health and care services have wage, work and pension conditions in line with that of public activities. The same majority point out that one does not want a development where large commercial groups are going to spend a lot of money on caring for the sickest and weakest. It must be ensured that Community funds go to services with clear quality, competence and manning requirements. This plurality is also concerned that ideal actors are being pushed out of large commercial companies, and that ideal offers as a complement to the public are threatened. The Workers' Party, SV and the Centre are behind comments saying that one must strengthen the local authority's ability to access private enterprises. These parties indicate that the local authority's control of and access to companies carrying out tasks for the municipality is not as good today as when the municipality operates the services itself. This shall be confirmed in the replies of the Governments to the Committee dated 13 December 2017. In the reply letter, the Council of State points out that the first paragraph of Section 80 of the Kommunelova confers on the control selection and auditor the right to all the information necessary to carry out control in inter-communal companies, inter-communal boards pursuant to Section 27 and in incorporated limited liability companies. However, when the municipality assigns responsibility for the settlement of tasks to companies other than such municipally-owned companies, local authorities do not currently grant any right to such transparency. The right of access to the municipality must therefore be laid down in the agreement with the company. The municipality has a wide possibility of agreeing transparency in the circumstances where it is considered necessary. But we believe that today's laws do not give the municipality sufficient access rights, and that the system is vulnerable when one of the authorities, when they enter into contracts, has to ensure that this is done. The Council of State also indicates that the municipal law selection in NOU 2016:4 proposes an extended legal right of access for municipalities in companies that carry out tasks for the municipality. In the setting, the Centre Party and SV are behind two suggestions for this: ‘The government is asked to propose a legislative amendment to ensure that municipalities have access to all the information necessary to verify that a private provider of services to the municipality complies with the contract under Norwegian law.’ And... ‘The government is asked to propose a legislative amendment to ensure that the obligation to provide information to municipalities also covers activities carried out in legal entities other than municipalities when such legal entities carry out tasks for the municipalities.’ Today, however, there is reason to be glad that we have had this unanimous decision, which states that municipalities must ensure transparency and openness about health and care services carried out under municipal or local authority supervision, and that the government should consider any legislative proposals that are necessary. By doing so, I will take up the suggestions from the Center Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e3032	The representative has drawn up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e3038	First, I will be allowed to thank the case spokesperson for both thorough and tidy work on this matter in the committee. The proposers point out that providing safe and well-being to those who need it is the responsibility of society. They also show that in recent years there have been several reviews and revelations of deviations in municipal health and care services for the elderly. It shouldn't be like that. Each of us should receive good services, and the services should be molded according to an individual assessment of the individual's needs. We therefore support the intention of the proposers to ensure transparency and openness. At the same time, it would not be inconclusive to require full transparency for the general public in operating and business relations, as the proposers here ask. The proposal is in addition, unfortunately, the embodiment of claims and the lack of reliability when it comes to facts. This does not help to achieve the goal – if the intention is to ensure safe and well-being. Rather, we see it as important that a good relationship of trust between the municipality and the private actors be maintained, and here, in fact, the obligation to raise this confidence is necessary. Although the municipality is willing to enter into an agreement with private service providers, it will nevertheless be the municipality that has the responsibility to provide a necessary and defence-related service provision. Therefore, for the individual patient and the user, there should in principle be no legal significance regarding the relevant cage in a municipal hospital or in a private hospital operated by agreement with the municipality. It is in any case the municipality that is responsible to the farmer and that is responsible for getting each individual a doctor and necessary health and care services. It requires that municipalities actually ensure good competence in how they see to it that private service providers they agree with are able to meet the requirements of the law on necessary and defence services. For the Right, there is no doubt that private, both the ideal and the commercial companies, are important contributors to the welfare services in Norway, and that they will be even more important in the future. In fact, lack and freedom of choice in the provision of services are a value in itself, giving a person greater degree of self-government over his own life. For this reason, it is very important that municipalities continue to be able to provide a differentiated and tailored service to all citizens, while ensuring a high-quality offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e3052	We are responsible for ensuring that everyone can feel good when they get old, and then we have to ensure good care for the elderly. Knowledge and transparency enable quality to be ensured and improved. Without knowing whether the knowledge of employees is good enough, it is difficult to know what skills requirements need to be made. If we do not know how many people are at work, it is difficult to know what staffing requirements need to be made. And most importantly, without knowledge of the nursing homes, it's hard to detect gross failure before it's too late. Failures can occur, and occur, in both public, ideal and commercial nursing homes. Common to all is that openness and honesty are what can bring us forward, so we can stop mistakes and learn from mistakes when that happens. But here's a hole in the law. As the Council of State writes in its letter of reply: When the municipalities assign responsibility to others, the municipal law of today does not give any right of access. Åge Villi Kristiansen was a renovation worker and was injured in an accident. In his older days he lived in a commercial nursing home in Moss. He deserved the same safe elderly care as everyone else. But in the aberration message, which never came to the municipality, it was said that there was a whirlwind of living larvae during the bandage. Journalists and local people elected from SV who want to control and ensure the quality of hospitals in Norway are often confronted with the fact that the information is company secrets. Business secrets! Our shared welfare services – your and my grandparents’ care – have become corporate secrets. It's not going to be like that anymore. I am proud that a unanimous increase supports the SV's proposal that we now have transparency about services from health and care institutions carried out for the municipality, even if they do so commercially. The decision on transparency provides greater opportunities to stop the terrible mistakes that Åge Villi was subjected to. It gives knowledge, so we can raise quality, it gives control of money usage, so it's not being fooled away in tax havens, and it ensures real freedom of choice, where older people and relatives can make informed choices based on real knowledge and information about how things stand in hospitals. We are also making another important decision today, because more and more knowledge shows that some commercial welfare professionals are not operating more efficiently. Instead, they have earned money by cutting wages and pensions for their employees. This has also cut the diversity of care for the elderly, because ideals, which often operate with safe labour rights, are squandered by the commercial ones, which often exploit the employees. The majority, the Red-Green and Christian People's Party, decide that consideration should be given to ensuring pay, employment and pension conditions that are at least as good as those in the public sector. It will provide knowledge of how to cut unfair competition that threatens employees. It is good to be a magnification representative and could tell the voters that SV is now implementing what we promised in the election campaign. The size takes action, on a proposal from SV, to ensure the transparency of our common welfare services, so that we can better ensure that all older people can feel good when they get old, and we take action to ensure the rights of the skilled health professionals and nurses who take care of our elderly. This is a good day for our grandparents.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e3073	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e3089	We now have annual audit and control for the financial year 2016. I would like to start by saying that we in the control committee are concerned with the matters that we have to point out in terms of management. However, I think it is right to take the main picture: that there is a lot of good administration in Norway, and that it also appears in the Riksrevision report. Nevertheless, there are some things that need to be pointed out. We agree with the National Auditor when he says, «The Court of Auditors considers it unacceptable when it has to be found that there are several establishments where it has not been possible for the auditor to give an opinion on the quality of the accounts.» In the past, the National Audit Office has been concerned that, in the event of reorganisation processes, it is important that accounting reporting is clarified before reorganisations enter into force. It is one of the areas that are more frequent that, in the event of reorganisation, there may be a lack of clarification as to the nature of the accounting reporting when the new structure is in place. Another main theme is that the Riksaudition over several years has addressed weaknesses in the information security management systems in a number of state activities. This time in particular, the Oil Directorate, the State Road Service and the Tax Directorate are mentioned, and it's very serious if we can't trust the information security of those agencies. The National Audit Office then also uses the concept of critically just about it, which the Committee agrees with. So I'm not going to go far into commenting on the comments of the individual departments here, because it's the case rapporteurs for each department, and those who need it come back to it more thoroughly. I just mention in particular that when the National Audit Office says that there is no basis for auditing significant parts of the defence and defence equipment accounts, there is a very serious situation. We have to be able to do it, and the National Audit Office must have the opportunity to get an overview of the accounts in such a way that we actually see what the real accounts are going to show. That's something we're assuming to be fixed. At all points in the vote, there is unanimity, and I leave to the individual case rapporteur of the various departments to go further into the unanimous comments of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e3113	First of all, I would like to thank the members of the Committee for their good and constructive cooperation. In the case of the Ministry of Health and Welfare, this area comprises 10 accounts in addition to the Ministry's own accounts. One of the activities of the Ministry of Health and Welfare, which has received significant comments for 2016, is the Directorate for eHealth. The Riksrevision notes relate to health refunds and that the legislation on these reimbursements is not sufficiently adapted to automated procedures. The Ministry of Health and Welfare is empowered to lay down legislation on health refunds and requirements for standards for electronic patient records for treatment providers. The establishment of clear legislation is of major importance for the automated treatment of health refunds. The Committee points out that the automation of procedures has a major impact on the organisation and design of tasks in both business and public administration. This is particularly important in managing large amounts of transactions. The management of society’s common resources in line with legislation and agreements is essential for citizens’ confidence in administration. Health mergers are about large amounts of transaction and a lot of money. This is why clear legislation and good systems are important. If we are to have the full effect of digitisation, we need to adapt legislation and agreements more closely to new time and systems of automated processing. The Committee notes that the Council of State will address these issues and follow the recommendations of the National Audit Office to ensure that the legislation on health reimbursements is better adapted to automated procedures. The Committee expects the necessary action to be taken as soon as possible to update and improve the systems.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e3124	I will take note of the three departments for which the Progress Party has been responsible for examining Document 1: the Ministry of Finance, for which I have been the rapporteur, and the Ministry of Justice and Defence and the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries, for which Mr Søttar has been the rapporteur. First a few words about the currency register, which is handled by the Tax Directorate, and which sort under the Ministry of Finance. The review by the National Audit Office of the information security in the currency register shows that the information in the currency register does not comply with the requirements imposed neither by the Currency Register Act nor by the Personal Data Act. The Committee considers this to be unsustainable. The Committee points out that the Minister of Finance agrees with the Riksrevision that it is important that the information in the currency register is properly secured and will follow up the recommendations of the Riksrevision in all areas where the Riksrevision has pointed out the non-compliance with laws and regulations. The Committee assumes that the Council of State will follow up the matter and implement the necessary measures. In the field of justice, there is a strong criticism of the Riksrevision, particularly as regards the treatment and follow-up of seizures in criminal matters by the police. The National Audit Office finds it highly critical that many seizures in the police and county seats are not located where they are reported to be and that none of the police stations surveyed could demonstrate evidence of how the destruction of the individual seizures has been carried out. In addition, it was found that there are few access restrictions to rooms used for mounting. The Committee points out that the lack of an overview of seizures may have an impact on the provision of evidence in criminal matters and on the legal certainty of individuals. In the opinion of the Committee, this is very serious. The Committee points out that the Council of State supports the recommendations made by the Riksrevision and points out that last year the police districts were asked to do the following: in the event of a stock situational error: location of the criminal justice system BL shall comply with the actual location of seizures in the district. Access lists to the holding rooms shall be reviewed and revised in order to restrict access, as set out in paragraph 1. circular 2010/007 on seizures from the Directorate of Police. Seizures collection and destruction procedures shall be reviewed and revised in accordance with the legislation. Intensify local procedures stressing the responsibility of the prosecution authority to decide on extradition and destruction, etc. of seizures. Intensification of procedures to ensure that seizures are supervised/checked at least twice a year, cf. circular 2010/007 on seizures. The Committee points out that the Council of State will monitor developments through the governance dialogue with the Police Directorate. The Committee has asked the Council of State to provide information on the status during the spring of 2018. The last area I'm going to comment on is the concession treatment and supervision activities of the Directorate of Mineral Management with the Bergmeister of Svalbard, DMF. For several years, the Directorate has had long-term procedural queue challenges and has carried out few local operational supervision. Applications for a concession have not been dealt with within a reasonable time — in this case up to six years. This is not acceptable. Another problem is that the number of operational supervision has decreased significantly and that there is a risk that mineral extractions can be found that operate without permission under the Mineral Act. Supervision is also important to identify compliance with the protection and clean-up obligation. In 2016, only 21 local operational supervision were carried out among the approximately 1,300 outtakes to be monitored. The Committee points out that the Council of State adheres to the recommendations of the National Audit Office and will work towards improving the framework conditions for the DMF. The Committee expects that the measures taken will reduce the period of proceedings for concessions and increase supervisory activity and respond to visible improvements in next year’s DMF report.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e3170	Powers must have good control over the use of funds in the public sector. Especially at a time when the government is building up the bureaucracy within many areas of the country, we have to adapt to the use of money. Like the rest of the committee thinks the Center Party there is reason to worry about the accounting of the Defence and Defence Matters. At a time when we're building up defenses and the money is increasing in line with that, we have to be careful. The money has to go until the purpose they're supposed to go to. So I want to get into those departments that I have a special responsibility for. I start with the Ministry of Climate and Environment. They have an enterprise that has received significant comments for 2016, and that relates to the Environment Directorate. That's 3.6 billion. kr in the Environment Directorate as a whole. Only from 2016 to 2017 will the Environment Directorate's framework increase by 1 billion. kr. As everyone knows, it is imperative to manage strong growth. When the Environment Directorate has received comments, it is the Environment Status site that has been under the umbrella of the website. So it's not the money that's on it, it's the money that's being used. The Environmental Status website is important as a knowledge base for people looking for information. This is where we want to find the basis for the decisions to be made. Therefore, it is decisive that the information contained here is of good quality. The quality assurance has not been good enough, and we in the Committee have noted the criticism that has come about the governance dialogue between the Department and the Environment Directorate. We in the committee note that previous criticism of the Norwegian Polar Institute now appears to be drawing seriously. It's high time, and we hope they're now in line with their management system. There are many people who have protected buildings in private ownership. It is positive that the Riksantikvarn follows up this work. At the same time, we have to think that it is often expensive for individuals to take care of something the big community thinks they should take care of for us. So far, there's not enough money to give good enough support to the people who get this responsibility on their shoulders. Then I want to go to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. For the second time in the same number of years, NIBIO, under the Ministry of Agriculture, has had an account that makes the Riksrevision have no basis for commenting on it. This must be followed up by the Council of State. We can't make it so that the institute under the department doesn't have reliable accounting. It is important that the Ministry return to Stortinget with a plan for action to get this done. Notes have also been attached to the Food Authority and the report to the Animal Register. From our point of view, the Food Authority must ensure that we have a system that allows one to trace disease outbreaks. This is particularly important to limit disease outbreaks before they have a significant impact on Norwegian livestock farming and public health.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e3185	In this article, I would like to focus first of all on the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the departments for which I am the rapporteur-general, in this context. At the same time, I'll get into a couple of other things. First, to the Ministry of Defence. The most serious finding in the National Audit Office's report is precisely found at the Ministry of Defence. This concerns the annual accounts of the Defence and Defence Equipment for 2016. The National Audit Office says that they cannot decide on the accounts of Defence and Defence Matters in fact gives a fair picture of the financial situation in 2016. Nor for 2017 will the Defence and Defence Equipment be able to produce independent, auditable accounts, according to the National Audit Office. At the same time, I have to make it clear here that there is no evidence that the money has been used incorrectly, or that there is any way out, but there is such a lack of material available that the Riksrevision does not find it possible to comment on the accounts. That means that the Storting cannot exclude anything either. We simply do not have a audited and validated accounts available. The Council of State refers to the fact that, despite some errors and exceptions that have been identified, the defence and defence equipment nevertheless consider that the annual accounts give a true and fair view of the financial position of the courts. The Committee must, of course, take note of this. We have to assume that the funds have been used as decided politically. At the same time, it is a unanimous committee which notes that there is considerable uncertainty about the use of these funds. The Committee therefore considers it highly critical that the defence and defence equipment do not provide auditable accounts in 2016 and 2017, and we are now asking the Council of State to brief the Stortingen on progress in getting procedures in place during the spring of 2018. The Ministry of Defence has applied to the Directorate of Economic Management for a number of exceptions to the key provisions of economic legislation. The Ministry of Defence has been granted a derogation, subject to compliance with the economic legislation as from the financial year 2018. The challenge of keeping autonomous annual accounts was addressed in the Riksrevisions report on the annual audit and control for the financial year 2015. The overall Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs then based its compliance with the Financial Regulation as from the financial year 2016. This has not happened, despite the Storting tightened the deadline for the matter to be taken care of. An important backtrace here is, of course, the creation of a separate establishment, Defence Equipment, which is to manage material investment and material management in the defence sector. Due to the challenges of keeping separate annual accounts, defence equipment has been granted a number of exemptions from the Financial Regulation, but with non-compliances and deadlines. In this context, I have to make it clear – as the Committee also does – that the exemptions granted to the Financial Regulation are not a general power not to deliver audited accounts. The totality and overallity of this case make the Committee highly critical of the absence of auditable accounts. Furthermore, there is a separate point that should be mentioned in particular. This applies to F-35 fighter aircraft. Here the Committee differs somewhat from the Riksrevision, in the sense that we choose to correct a particular criticism right at this point. The reports on the annual accounts refer to the fighting lights. The Committee chooses to address a specific criticism of the specificities of the fighter aircraft. Due to the roots of the Defence Material, it is not possible to confirm the purchase price of the fighter aircraft in the business accounts of the Defence Material. The National Audit Office has also found errors in the valuation of F-35 in both the defence and defence accounts. The Committee chooses to highlight this in particular. F-35 fighter aircraft is a major and important investment for Norway. We need to have good internal control in the Defence Equipment for the purchase of F-35. Where the purchase price of F-35 cannot be confirmed and where there is a mistake in the valuation of F-35 in both the defence and defence accounts, the Committee considers that on an independent basis and in itself it is critical. Here, we expect the Council of State to inform Stortinget about progress in getting the procedures in place during the spring of 2018. I would like the Council of State to confirm that he will do this to Stortinget, both on the annual accounts in general and on F-35 in particular, and that this can be done during 2018. I have not finished the Ministry of Defence properly yet, but I am now leaving what is involved in accounting, and I am going over to the part that is about the introduction of a general duty of protection. The Committee has not chosen to address a direct and formal criticism of the ministry in this matter. I'll explain why. It is important to provide the background for this, all the time there is an overall committee that chooses to deviate somewhat from the Riksrevision here. The National Audit Office is critical that the Ministry of Defence has not sufficiently arranged buildings and personal clothing and equipment by imposing a general duty of protection. The Committee points out in its opinion that the Riksrevision promotes this criticism, and we share the Riksrevision's recommendations for improvements and further follow-up. It is obvious that there are conditions that need to be further improved. At the same time, not all the challenges described in the National Audit Office’s report can necessarily be related solely to the introduction of a general protection obligation. For Storting, the main thing should be that property, construction, plant and equipment are generally well adapted to those subject to protection, regardless of gender. In its reply to the Riksrevision, the Council of State notes that not all findings of the Riksrevision have led to its conclusions relate to the introduction of a general duty of protection. I fully agree with that. As indicated in the opinion, an overall committee is in agreement with that view. The defence still has cashier of varying standard and age. The challenges of older building masses are both gender-related and therefore not specifically related to the introduction of a general protection obligation. Also in personal clothing and equipment, challenges are facing both sexes. On 14 June 2013, the Stortinget adopted a decision to introduce gender-neutral protection obligations in Norway. The first protected persons under the new scheme met in the summer of 2016. In the introduction of the new scheme, Stortinget stressed the importance of facilitating physical facilities and equipment in defence for both sexes. Of course, that decision and the expectation are firm. The introduction of universal protection obligations is a major and important social reform, which requires resources, measures and continuous work over time. Over several years, women in Defence have been gradually better organised. The defence has gained more new experience of gender composition in the different departments and the functioning of the new system. The reform records that we are well received in the defence and with those responsible for protection, something like this. the 2016 Safety Obligations Survey shows. It is important that the work of good organisation for guardians of both sexes continues and strengthens. To this end, the Committee endorses the recommendations of the National Audit Office for action in the future, where a request is made by the government to continue the implementation of the general protection obligation, including the adaptation of buildings and installations, as well as personal clothing and equipment for both sexes. Before leaving the Department of Defense area and moving on to another field, I would like to end this part by saying that I fully agree with the Chief of Defense, who in his speech to the Oslo Military Society on 22 January this year underlined a very important point, namely that it is thanks to skilled soldiers, commanding and officer at all levels of the organization that the Defence now solves its tasks very well. It is right and important for the head of defence to underline this. At the same time, I would like to add to that defense chief not mentioned, namely the more than 4,000 civilians who every day make an invaluable effort in the defence. Without them, the layer doesn't work. Without them, the machinery is not complete. The several thousand civilians are a central and integral part of the Defense. Finally, in this part of the article, let me extend a great deal of thanks to all those who work in Defence – at different levels and in different roles – and all those who contribute to us having a defence that solves our tasks in a good way both in Norway and abroad. I would like to make a few comments about the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. There is a large part of the state budget we are talking about here, and it must be said that it has often been the Employment and Welfare Act that has received the most important comments in recent years. It is also the case for 2016, but it is also gratifying to note that the comments are less and to a lesser extent less serious than what we have seen in previous years. We have had serious things, including: related to ICT systems and error payments. I don't think all these problems have been solved, but I would nevertheless like to highlight the positive fact that the Employment and Welfare Act is now, for example. appears to take seriously the deficiencies of the information security management system in a new way, which the Committee has been concerned with, at the latest in the examination of the previous audit report. Nav has implemented several actions, and that is good. We notice that the Riksrevision will follow this case further. Problems have been documented in managing the day-to-day payment system. Nav does not have sufficient procedural quality in the area of day-to-day pay. At the same time, the National Audit Office points out that the Employment and Welfare Act does not ensure that the beneficiaries are genuine job seekers. It is important to ensure that payments of errors are avoided as far as possible. I have to repeat what I have said in previous debates about this: Weaknesses in Nav's handling of mispaid benefits can help undermine confidence in the social security system itself. We've got to figure that out. In the 2015 budgets report, the National Audit Office also showed that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs had not followed up the work on mispayments well enough. The Committee is of the opinion that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has not followed up well enough the management of the day-to-day arrangements by the State of Labour and Welfare. We expect the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to pay great attention to the shortcomings and weaknesses of the National Audit Office. In addition, a Joint Committee is in line with the recommendations of the National Audit Office in this area. Finally, a matter that is actually under the Ministry of Transport. The walking and cycling path reward scheme is a scheme designed to contribute to a sprawling layer between state and county and municipalities. The state contributes half, and the state and the municipalities contribute the rest. The purpose is clear: to build multiple routes on municipal and municipal roads. This mechanism has been negotiated at Stortinget as a result of budgetary settlements, and the appropriations have increased as a result of a clear priority on the part of Stortinget. Therefore, it is very provocative that the department simply does not do its job. Clearly, the Ministry of Transport has not done what the Stortinget asked for. I agree with the Riksrevision that it is critical when the department has not made sure that the appropriations have been used as intended. Only for 2016 it was 66 pst. who stood unused. This is money that Stortinget has allowed to get several routes. There is no doubt that both the need and the plans are there. There has also been under-use of this item for previous years. The Council of State acknowledges that the grips taken by the Ministry have not been effective. I read in the report that he will follow up the state road system better. That's good, but we have to expect that schemes that are initiated, set up and granted by a majority on the Storting will be fully implemented and with full weight. Here I expect the criticism from the Riksrevision to be followed, and that there will be improvements.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e3238	Both the Defence and Defence Equipment have closed and reported a cash account for 2016 to the government accounts, in accordance with the Financial Code. It's important to underline it. The adopted budget of the Trustee for 2016 has been complied with. Appropriations have been used for the purposes provided for and as politically decided. Defence and defence equipment entered the 2016 financial year with a very demanding starting point. I admit it. The defence introduced a new accounting system from 1 January 2016. Periodic accounting was carried over, in addition to the usual cash accounts. At the same time, the accounts of the newly established department of Defence were to be kept in the defence accounts for a transitional period of two years. The objective of the conversion to business accounts is to provide a better and standardised information base for governance in government activities. This is in line with the desired practice of the state, and here is the Defence and Defence Matters early out. The Ministry of Defence has applied to the Directorate for Economic Management, DFOE, for derogations from some provisions of the Financial Code for 2016 and 2017. The DFØ has granted the exemptions subject to full compliance with the economic legislation as from the financial year 2018. The exemptions are without prejudice to the cash accounts. Let there be no doubt that I look seriously at the Riksrevision's observations on the accounts for 2016 and on the comments of the Committee. The Ministry of Defence has closely followed up the Defence and Defence Matters in respect of the financial statements for 2017. Activities have been structured over a long period of time. Both the defence and defence equipment have taken a number of measures to respond to the elements raised by the National Audit Office. I would also like to point out that the National Audit Office has given very good support to this work. Correct accounting is a fundamental prerequisite for control-command. My focus now is that the financial statements for 2017 should be of the highest quality, giving the exceptions granted by the regulatory manager within the scope of the accounting. The defence and defence equipment shall keep independent accounts as provided for from 2018 onwards. It's control of the costs of the fighter aircraft acquisition. The national audit has criticised the lack of documented internal control. And now we've done that. Full traceability of the transactions is established in the accounts relating to the acquisition of the fighter aeroplanes. I pointed out that the Riksrevision at the press conference clarified that the contract amount is known and that there is control over the cash flow. The Ministry of Defence also follows up the development of costs through its participation in the international partnership for the acquisition of F-35. Through the partnership, Norway benefits from a comprehensive American control and audit regime. Internal control is also lifted in Defence Equipment. A dedicated fighter aircraft department has been established to report directly to the Director of Defence Equipment. These are measures that strengthen the internal control associated with the acquisition of F-35 further. The Government will brief the Government on the progress made in putting in place the procedures related to the defence and defence equipment annual accounts and internal control for F-35 – at the latest in the revised national budget for 2018. It is also clear to me that the introduction of general protection obligations in Norway has been successful. The reform has been favourably received by both the Defence and the Protective. The introduction has already led to an increase in the proportion of women and a wider diversity of competences in defence. Initial services are highly valued among both sexes, and both male and female guardians thrive in the service. Women have served in Defense for a long time. However, the introduction of the general protection obligation has brought new challenges. A number of measures have been taken. The measures include: related to the organisation of building conditions and the adaptation of personal clothing and equipment for both sexes. The Committee considers it important to continue and strengthen the work on good organisation of both sexes' guardians. I support this assessment and can assure that the government will continue the work in due course.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e3263	I would like to make a few comments on the subject of the Ministry of Oil and Energy, namely the information security of the Directorate of Oil. The National Audit Board noted back in 2013 that there were deficiencies related to having a satisfactory information security management system in the Oil Directorate in accordance with eManagement Regulation § 15 and recognised standards. In the re-examination of the financial year 2016, the Riksrevision underlined that the Ministry has followed up the work on information security in the Oil Directorate through the Ministry’s governance dialogue and letter of allocation. Nevertheless, the remaining deviations are not closed. In 2017, the Ministry carried out various actions. In the spring of 2017, we collected an updated overview of the status and plan for the further work in the directorate to complete the management system. The Oil Directorate also implemented two concrete actions in 2017. Among other things, ICT competence and staffing have been strengthened, and they have hired an external consultant to draw up an action plan to close outstanding non-conformities. The Ministry of Oil and Energy has also followed up the matter through a separate follow-up meeting in autumn 2017, and this will be followed up by a new meeting this spring. We announced a competition at the end of 2017 and have recently engaged A-2 Norway and Menon Economics to evaluate the oil directorate's target achievement in data management, including information security. The report from there is expected to be available in the summer of 2018 and will provide a basis for further follow-up. Information security is crucial in all sectors, including the energy sector. I would therefore like to follow up on the Riksrevision report and the Committee's comments in this area in the further management dialogue with the Oil Directorate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e3278	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e3290	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting. We have a long and demanding vote in front of us, and the President asks the representatives to follow closely, otherwise we will probably have to do more things again.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e3365	Case No. 4 was a statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e4569	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e4579	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e4626	Here we have to follow closely, because there are a lot of constellations in the proposals. A total of 46 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1–5, from Lene Westgaard-Halle on behalf of the Right Party, the Party of Advancement, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No 6, from Else-May Botten on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 7-9, by Else-May Botten on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Greens' Greens' Party the proposals No 10-12, from Else-May Botten on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Green Party the proposals No 13-30, from Else-May Botten on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment proposal No 31, from Sandra Borch on behalf of the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Green Party proposal No 32, by Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment proposal No 33, by Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Green Party proposal No 34, from Sandra Borch on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 35 and 36, by Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Greens proposal No 37, from Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 38, from Tore Storehaug on behalf of the Christian People's Party the proposals No 39 to 43, from Per Espen Stoknes on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA the proposals No 44 and 45, from the Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red proposal No 46, from Else-May Bottom on behalf of the Workers' Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 44 and 45, from Red. Proposal No. 44 sounds: ‘The government is asking the organisation of the waste industry to be explored, and in the investigation to look at the whole value chain in the context, from collection to recovery, and how it can be organised in a way that provides the best solutions for both the social economy and the environment. Consideration should be given to the distribution of responsibilities between the public sector and business, the environmental impact of lack of private investment, the impact on wage and working conditions in the sector and how capacity for handling and recovery needs to be planned for the future, not least when the volumes of waste risk increasing with population growth.» Proposal No. 45 sounds: ‘The government is asked to initiate a pilot scheme with loans for tools, musical instruments, toys or other things in public libraries and to return to the Stortinget with an evaluation of the scheme. The scheme must take place for at least one year, at least ten libraries, and funds must be included for the promotion of the individual library scheme. The testing scheme must draw on the experience gained from existing schemes such as Tøyen Tool Pool, the Tools Library at Trondheim People's Library. Moholt, FRIGO [[Old Oslo Free Air Station]] The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e4700	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e4705	Let's do the voting one more time. So the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e4718	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 39 to 43, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 39 sounds: ‘The government of international forums is asked to take the initiative of an international levy on the withdrawal of ‘virgin’ natural resources.’ Proposal No. 40 sounds: ‘The size request the Government to set a target that the change in the quantity of waste measured in tonnes shall be at least five pst. lower than the country's economic growth measured in GDP per year.» Proposal No. 41 sounds: ‘The government is asked to wait with a location decision for a new landfill for hazardous inorganic waste to provide an overview of technologies that can reduce the amount of waste.’ Proposal No. 42 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for a strategy for the use of alternative technologies and solutions that may result in higher levels of recycling and utilisation of fly ash, sulphuric acid and other fractions of inorganic hazardous waste that are planned to be deposited, before the location decision on a new landfill for hazardous inorganic waste is taken.’ Proposal No. 43 sounds: ‘The Government of the State budget for 2019 is asked to submit proposals to wind up VAT on repair and reuse of shoes, clothing, household and pleasure goods.’» Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e4762	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 38, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks whether reduced VAT on some repairs could be an appropriate tool to prevent unnecessary waste generation and return to Storting in an appropriate way.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e4779	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 37, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the municipalities to be responsible for and to have the exclusive right to handle household-like waste from business, in the same way as the current exclusive right for household waste.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e4797	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 34, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is requesting that carrier bags used in Norway be biodegradable.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e4812	The proposals are then put to the vote. 35 and 36, from the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 35 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to put in place a producer responsibility regime for equipment in the fishery and farming industry.’ Proposal No. 36 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for a ban on the use of plastic reinforcement in road construction.’ The Labour Party and Red have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e4836	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 33, from the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Green Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for non-profit institutions operating reusable shops or flea markets to be provided to waste companies free of charge.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e4853	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 32, from the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked by the Government of the State budget for 2019 to propose a levy on products containing PFAS until the entry into force of any EU ban.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e4870	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 31, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Green Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide a proven neutral way of replacing the basic charge on one-off packaging by an incentive charge based on material use graduated from non-renewable contents.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e4888	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 46, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size asks the government to investigate the possibility of extending the landfill capacity on the Lang Island beyond 2022 and to investigate alternative waste management if new landfill is not clear when the capacity of the Lang Island is exhausted.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e4905	The proposals are then put to the vote. 7-9 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Greens' Greens' Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to set a target of at least 25 pst. recovery of hazardous waste by 2025.» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the government to explore the possibility of using available resources from the offshore sector to map and develop technologies to clean up plastic waste from the seabed in a biologically sound manner.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: «The government is asked to take a leading role internationally in the development of infrastructure and waste management systems in developing countries.» Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e4934	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 6, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks to increase the pledge in bottles and cans to increase the amount recovered.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e4951	The proposals are then put to the vote. 13–30, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide an assessment of different models for the introduction of a levy on the withdrawal of ‘virgin’ natural resources.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking municipalities and economic operators to sort and recycle food and plastic waste. This shall apply to private households, restaurants, the food industry and the food industry.» Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government requests that all waste exported be sorted.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to strengthen the requirements for source sorting of construction waste in technical regulations [[TEK17]] Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The budget asks the Government to draw up a producer responsibility register on the basis of the following elements: 1st@item: inlistbox An overview of the quantity of products that businesses place on the market. 2nd@item: inlistbox Which companies have committed themselves to collecting the waste. 3rd@item: inlistbox Where to collect and treat the waste. 4th@item: inlistbox What types of waste are precious and which are valuable. 5th@item: inlistbox The proportion of the collection obligations of the return companies relating to reuse, material recovery, energy recovery and landfill.’» Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish an environmental competence programme for the commercial and service industries.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government asks the Government to make proposals to increase the right of return to six years, against the current two and five years in the Consumer Purchases Act.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: «The government is asked to propose a regulation to increase the burden of proof for the seller from six months to two years in the Consumer Purchases Act.» Proposal No. 21 sounds: «The Government is asked to propose a regulation to enable all professional repairers to repair goods without breaching the guarantee.» Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government asks for review of the Consumer Purchases Act and proposes how the durability and access to spare parts can be incorporated as part of the basis for assessing the conformity of the goods with the purchase contract. The review must also include an assessment of the requirements that should be made for spare parts to be available for the foreseeable life of the product and of how information on durability and access to spare parts is made available to the consumer.» Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government is requesting a product liability scheme for the collection of spray boxes as special waste.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to investigate producer liability schemes for all plastic manufacturers and importers of plastics, with the aim of introducing such a scheme for all parts of the business as soon as possible, by 2022 at the latest.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to introduce a mandatory registration of all recreational craft in Norway.’ Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up a regulation that gives the sellers of rubber cullet responsibility to ensure that equipment for the collection of rubber cullet from existing artificial grass tracks is put into service.’ Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to introduce a ban on the use of rubber cullet from 2023.’ Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The government is asking for international support for the development of infrastructure and waste management and for plastic pollution. Priority must be given to supporting the development of sound waste management systems that prevent the emergence of plastic pollution, as well as knowledge development on the impact of plastic pollution on marine life.» Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the Maritime Directorate makes use of waste reporting to Safe Sea Net to ensure that the data can be secured and used to check that the amount of waste delivered in ports is in accordance with the expected quantity.’ Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The government is asked to develop a broad national strategy for a circular economy, taking into account the following points: clarifying the long-term challenges ensuring consumer-oriented service innovation and ensuring a sustainable framework; outsourced circular economic business models, activity and how ambitions are best extended to the whole of business identify how instruments, regulations and guidelines can contribute to Norway's righting of the pyramid of waste; how research, innovation and the instrument can be organised to strengthen the emergence of circular business models and actors across the economy; how taxes and taxes can be set up to promote circular activity and innovation across the economy how circular innovation and business development in all industries can be financed and what stage of product development is the most demanding in terms of funding how public procurement rules can be set up to support a broad circular development clarify skills needs in areas that can be identified and developed how public authorities can support the development of the circular economy facilitate the contribution of authorities by means of arrangements for their decisions; drafting laws and regulations supporting the circular economy; establish incentives in the market that support the circular economy; secure financing supporting the circular economy; work for international cooperation in the field of the circular economy.’.» Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e5121	The proposals are then put to the vote. 10 and 11, from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Green Party. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a reporting system to obtain information on how much waste is handled, where the waste is handled and how it is handled.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to investigate and submit to the Storting a proposal for changes to the warranty and the seller’s burden of proof, which strongly stimulates the provision of products with longer shelf-life on the market.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e5145	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 12, from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Green Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to entrust the Maritime Directorate with the task of preventing and combating marine pollution at sea.’ The Central Party and Red have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e5163	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1 and proposals Nos. 3–5, from the Right, the Party of Advancement, the Left and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for improvements in waste statistics to be made and assessing the need to draw up a producer register in order to clarify the obligations of the return companies under established producer responsibility.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a plan to limit the amount of hazardous waste.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to work to phase out the unnecessary use of plastic disposables.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to implement a system to deliver marine waste in ports for fishermen and others free of charge, based on the experience of the Fishing for Litter project.’ The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e5197	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2, from the Right, from the Party of Advancement, from the Left, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to assess whether we are achieving the EEA target for the recovery of waste from the construction industry in 2020 and, if appropriate, identify the necessary instruments, including an assessment of a strengthening of the requirements for construction waste in technical regulations.’;» The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e5361	It shall be weighed over I, II and XV. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e5374	It is then added over VII. The Central Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e5387	President! SV shall vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e5392	Let's do the voting one more time. The central party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e5404	It is then voted over VIII, IX, X, XII, XIV, XVII, XVIII, XIX, XX, XXI, XXII and XXVI. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e5419	It is then votered over XXV. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e5431	It is then voted over XXVII. The Labour Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e5445	It is then voted over III, IV, V, VI, XI, XIII, XVI, XXIII, XXIV and XXVIII.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e5455	President! We had announced that we would provide subsidiary support for the XXVII.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e5460	So the Labour Party should have voted in favour of XXVII. We then go back and take the vote again. The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e5489	President! Here...
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e5494	You have reported that you should vote for the setting. Your voice makes no difference.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e5528	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Greens proposal No 3, from Per Espen Stoknes on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA There is a vote on proposal No. 3 by the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to change the name of the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the Minister of Oil and Energy respectively to the Ministry of Energy and the Minister of Energy.’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e5552	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 by the Socialist Left and the Greens. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is not required to implement the 24th concession round on Norwegian pedestal.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The government is asking the government to stop granting new extraction permits by granting them in predefined areas [[TFO]] Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e5586	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e5605	The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e5621	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Tellef Inge Mørland on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No 3, from Hans Fredrik Grövan on behalf of the Christian People's Party There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that no negotiations are initiated with operators other than the Vinmonopole on the duty-free sale of alcoholic beverages by Avinor’s aviation activities.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e5650	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the Vinmonopole takes over the duty-free sale of alcoholic beverages at Avinor’s aviation activities when the agreement with Travel Retail Norway AS expires in 2022 and in an appropriate manner, and at the latest in the proposal for the 2019 government budget, informs the Storting about the progress of work and what legislative changes are being assessed.’; The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e5667	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to follow up Decision No. 307, cf. Prop. 1 LS [[2016-2017]] The Central Party, the Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e5691	The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e5703	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e5708	Let's do the voting again.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e5753	During the debate, Kjersti Toppe has put forward two proposals on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to propose a legislative amendment to ensure that municipalities have access to all the information necessary to verify that a private provider of services to the municipality complies with the contract under Norwegian law.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose a legislative amendment to ensure that the obligation to provide information to municipalities also covers activities carried out in legal entities other than municipalities when such legal entities carry out tasks for the municipalities.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e5799	The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-02-27.ana.ud529e5899	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
