ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-19.ana.ud293e37	Two permit applications are available: from Kent Gudmundsen on parental leave for the period from 8 January to 14 March 2019 from the representative of Guri Melby on parental leave from 7 January to 17 January 2019 On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Oslo: Tina Shagufta Munir Kornmo from 8 to 17 January For the counties of Troms: Regina Alexandrova from 8 January to 14 March
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-19.ana.ud293e77	The representative, Karin Andersen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-19.ana.ud293e82	On behalf of Mona Fagerås, Freddy André Øvstegård, Eirik Faret Sakariassen and myself, I will present proposals for offering an equivalent school holiday scheme for children and young people with special needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-19.ana.ud293e87	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-19.ana.ud293e105	The President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no loopholes, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-19.ana.ud293e114	In March 2018, the Trustee adopted a new and modern Security Act to replace the applicable law. The Presidency hereby submits proposals for provisions on the extent to which the new Security Act will apply to the Administration of Storting. While the Storting and Bodies of the Storing are not covered by the scope of the applicable Security Act, the new law shall apply to the Storing and Bodies of the Storing to the extent that the Storing itself determines it. Therefore, when the Stortinget examined the new Security Act in March, the Stortinget decided, in line with the proposal of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy, to ask the Presidency to bring a case before the Stortinget on the extent to which the new law and provisions laid down in compliance with it will apply to the Stortinget. The issue under consideration today concerns the administration of Storting and not the parliamentary activities of Stortinget. With the latter, I mean, for example: work here in the Chamber and in the Committees. The provisions governing the proceedings of the parliamentary bodies of the Grand Duchy are governed by the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Grand Duchy. The Rules of Procedure already have some provisions that refer to the Security Act, and it is the Presidency's view that the Rules of Procedure should, in future, regulate exhaustively the security issues that the representatives must deal with in their duties as magnificence representatives. In this respect, I would like to remind you that the new Security Act already states directly that wholesalers do not need security clearance or authorisation. Through the elections to the Stortinget in line with the Constitutional Law, the representatives are to be considered as having cleared access to classified information. The Presidency will come back to spring with its own case on amendments to the Rules of Procedure as a result of the new Security Act, and the Assembly will then have the opportunity to discuss in more detail what is going to happen to Parliament's work. An important objective of the new Security Act is to secure the democratic governance of Norway. The activities of the top governmental bodies, including the Storting, are defined as a national security interest. The Presidency considers that the same requirements should apply to the Administration of Storting as to other establishments responsible for the functioning of basic national functions. The Presidency is therefore of the opinion that the law should apply mainly to the administration. At the same time, the Presidency considers that certain exceptions and adjustments to constitutional considerations are necessary. It's e.g. a proposed derogation from provisions allowing the administration to supervise the activities of the Administration of the Grand Duchy or allowing the Government to impose formal obligations on the Grand Duchy. It has also been proposed that the Administration of Storting should be its own clearing body with the Presidency as the Board of Appeal. However, although the administration is not allowed to take legally binding decisions with effect from the Storting, close cooperation with national safety authorities is envisaged. The Security Act is a major framework law and, at a later stage, the Stortinget must decide on the extent to which supplementary requirements of the law will apply to the administration of Stortinget. The regulations have not yet been adopted, and the presidency will therefore come back to the Grand Duchy later on with a case on this. The Presidency will also make proposals to spring on the extent to which the law and regulations will apply to bodies for the Storting, as the Stortinget also asked for in the process of the Security Act in March. I would advise the Stortinget to adopt provisions on the application of the Security Act to the Administration of Stortingen in accordance with the proposal of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-19.ana.ud293e135	I feel that the presidency's proposal follows the Committee's leadership from March this year in a good way, and that the principles contained in the Security Act also apply in an appropriate way to the operation of the Stortinget and the Stortinge. But I took the floor because the presidency in its comments has been a little unpresis. Now I heard the previous speeches being more precise on the platform, because the comments on security clearance say: ‘This implies, inter alia, that, like members of the Government and judges of the Supreme Court, grossing-up representatives are not cleared for security’.» The right thing to do, as the previous speaker said in the pulpit, is to have security cleared on the same lines as Supreme Court judges and members of the government by the process that is before being nominated and elected to the Grand Duchy. It is important that it is not allowed to attach itself to a belief that you have not been declared safe. In the examination of the Safety Act, the Committee's comments from a Joint Committee state that it is important that wholesalers have access to the information necessary to carry out their parliamentary work and that safety has been clarified in this respect. So it's not a question of whether you have security clearance or not. The information necessary to carry out their duties, including those graduated in different ways, is subject to security clearance and must be available.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-19.ana.ud293e145	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 2 and 3 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-19.ana.ud293e176	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, a line change be made to one line with replies per opposition party, up to a total of six lines, after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up for the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-19.ana.ud293e185	The debate on the ageing of the population is, to a lesser extent, a political debate on the Norwegian economy, but it gives us an insight into the results of the budget we adopted last autumn and how the economy has evolved in the past year. In the 2018 budget, the bulk of the population prioritised actions that promoted economic growth, increase employment and ensure a sustainable welfare society. With the recent ageing we are dealing with today, we can say that the measures that were prioritised last autumn have contributed to the growth of the Norwegian economy and the creation of more jobs. The new age shows a significant decrease in oil money consumption of 6.9 billion. kr, increased tax revenue of SEK 8.8 billion. DKK and 75,9 billion kr in increased revenues from the petroleum activity compared to the national budget for 2018. Transfers to the State pension fund abroad are increasing by 105.5 billion. kr compared to the figures for last year's harvest. This shows above all that the Norwegian economy is doing well and that the state finances are sound. We now see that the growth in the economy is back to full, that jobs are created all over the country, and that several of those who were out of work are now coming in. The latest monetary policy report from Norway’s Bank shows that the growth in the Norwegian economy has been good since the autumn of 2016, that the labour market has improved and that the use of capacity in the economy has increased. In the national budget presented earlier in the autumn, growth in 2018 is estimated to be above the trend growth and is expected to increase further in 2019. We have recently adopted a budget for 2019 that continues and strengthens the government's main efforts. The 2019 budget will facilitate continued growth in the economy and will use the good times we are in to build a sustainable welfare society and create a safer Norway also in the long term. The results of the new aging we are examining today show that the measures taken by the government parties and the Christian People's Party since 2013 have worked well and functioned well. The arrows are pointing in the right direction, and there is good economic development all over the country. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee on Finance and the Minister of Finance for their good cooperation this year and wish both the Committee, the Council of State and the President a very good Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-19.ana.ud293e208	Thank you, in the same way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-19.ana.ud293e213	The Labour Party wants a serious and organised working life. In our proposal for the 2019 government budget, we therefore propose a significant package of measures against labour crime, with increased appropriations for the Labour Inspectorate, the Petroleum Control and the Ecocrime. We're going to build a further labour-criminal center, and the goal is for the whole country to be covered by such centers. In addition, we are adding increased operational resources to existing work-life crime centres totaling 20 million. NOK 5 million. SEK of these are on the tax revenue budget. In the proposition from the government to Innst. 5 S has been notified back on several requests from Stortinget, among others. the wish of a unanimous increase for a new financial tax facility that removes the high employer's tax that means that we are disproportionately taxing labour. It is regrettable that a year has passed without the government having found a device to correct the financial tax as it is today. As it is now structured, it is particularly challenging for local banks and savings banks because they have more employees in relation to turnover and management capital. At the same time, these banks are of particular importance for local enterprises’ access to finance and economic competence. The Workers' Party welcomes the establishment in 2019 of a regulatory sandbox for financial technology under the auspices of the Financial Supervisory Authority. We have asked the government to focus on experience from the United Kingdom and Denmark in setting up and to involve organisations affected, such as Finance Norway, ICT Norway and Finance Innovation. The cancellation has a separate case for a register to make real rightholders visible. The Labour Party is pleased that the majority of the Committee on the matter we are dealing with today has stated that it cannot replace a public shareholder register and that the work with the shareholder register must continue and be completed. Last week, it was estimated how much fresh fish is exported through the most used customs station in North Norway for that purpose on Bjørnfjell. This border station is now up to 100000 tonnes, and with a kilo price of 60 dollars, that means export for 6 billion. kr. Marine farming is one of the industries we're going to live on in the future, and the industry is delivering. But the government does not deliver on the state infrastructure, for this customs station with the greatest traffic closes at night. Fish slaughtered along the coast of the afternoon shift do not reach the mountain crossing in time. The consequence is that it falls in value by NOK 1-1,50 during this night. We did not get the majority to spend extra money that the Ministry of Finance says they need to keep the Bjørnfjell customs station open 24 hours a day. But it may seem that the need for better solutions is pressing forward, because the customs services have said in meeting the industry that they will facilitate it so that instead of having to physically enter the customs station and stamp, you can try digital customs clearance. In the long term, the goal must not be to manually clear customs duties at border stations out of Norway at all, but to digitise this. It is a paradox that border crossings further north in Troms and West Finland are open 24 hours a day – despite the fact that several fewer are going out that way – because they are operated by Finnish customs authorities, which facilitate our exports in a better way than we can manage ourselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-19.ana.ud293e230	Today, we will deal with, among other things: the budget of the customs and tax havens for the following year. The customs tariff has an important role to play in preventing the illegal entry of goods into Norway and has a social mission by ensuring compliance with the laws and regulations governing the cross-border movement of goods, and both the customs duty and the tax rate have an important role to play in ensuring that goods are properly imported. In this room we have discussed on a number of occasions the so-called 350-kroner limit, which is a completely unreasonable disadvantage for Norwegian business by subsidising foreign online shops by not paying VAT and other taxes when importing goods under NOK 350. Finally, it came into the budget agreement this year. After a clear majority of the Stortinget over a long period of time said that the 350-kroner limit had to be removed, the budget agreement in the autumn came to the conclusion that one would follow it up, but not until 1 January 2020. So the question is, how is it going to be followed up? How has the majority envisaged that costs related to this should be monitored in 2019? After all, on a number of occasions, government parties have challenged the consequences of removing the 350-kroner limit – that it would be insurmountably difficult, that it would involve increased costs, that it would involve new schemes that would be problematic to be put in place. As far as I can see, the majority has not allocated a single penny to the work of introducing the 350-kroner limit. And revenue does not come until 2020, because one set 1 January 2020 as the date of introduction. This reminds me of a negotiation that has taken place in late hours of the night, where one has agreed to push this in front of him, and then one has not set out a plan for how the actual implementation should be done. And I want to ask the majority to put into practice how a person really intended this. Does anyone now think that there will be no cost of doing anything about the 350-kroner limit for tax revenue or customs duties? In that case, a significant change in the argument has been made. Or, if you think it means costs, where should that money be taken from, and in what other areas are you going to cut? The Centre Party has set aside funds in its alternative budget to establish an electronic payment mechanism whereby solutions will be simpler when a limit of 350 kroner is removed. The tax system carries out an important task together with several other bodies in order to prevent work-life crime, and there is a need to strengthen efforts to combat labour-life crime in Norway. That is why, in our alternative budget, we are giving a strong priority to the fight against crime at work, a total package of 230 million. kr. Within this we are strengthening, among other things. The tax base of 25 million. kr. It is incredibly important that the tax rate is isolated, but also in cooperation with both Nav, the police, the Labour Inspectorate and the Petroleum Authority, increased resources to ensure that we have tidy conditions in Norwegian working life, and that taxes are paid in line with the legislation. For a long time, the situation in the customs office has been extremely strained. The trust elected to the customs office has called for warnings on a number of occasions. One has, among other things: said that it has become easier to be smugglers. One has warned that one is too thinly manned, and that if there are no new allocations in the hundreds of millions of people, it will undermine social security. The number of objects controlled has decreased. At border stations there is a large and increasing labour pressure and control coverage decreases due to increased traffic and resources go from control activities to dispatch tasks. Then there is a need to increase efforts, to increase the budget to the customs debt, as the Central Party does in its alternative budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-19.ana.ud293e245	I would like to draw up two important areas when we are going to deal with the Inst today. 5 S. The first is climate risk. Climate change poses climate risk. We can read that in the NOU Climate Risk and the Norwegian economy, which was presented on 12 December. And we've already had a taste of the risks and physical consequences of the climate change that are already here. The harvest's dry summer should not go into the forgetbook with the first in spite of the fact that we are approaching Christmas. Paradoxically, we also experience more floods and rainfall. It has already cost community dearly. There is also a great injustice in climate change. The poorest are the poorest: the poorest countries and the poorest in the countries. It is those who at least have the prerequisites for coping with climate change that comes. The costs that we have already seen of extreme weather pale with the economic costs that the nation of Norway can face if the world fails to combat climate change. But also if – and when – we actually succeed and reach the climate goals: Will Norwegian industry be able to deliver products to a world that demands within a 1.5 degree target, will Norwegian companies be able to raise capital in the financial market in such a scenario? The study submitted on 12 December should be compulsory for all of us in the Financial Committee. Climate change will have an impact on the action of our and future financial committees in the years to come. It is impossible now to overlook all the potential effects on economic stability, on economic growth, and on life on earth itself. In Norway, we know that the climate is going to get warmer, wetter and wilder. To stabilise the temperature increase at a given level, all global greenhouse gas emissions need to be reduced to zero, by 50 pst. reduction already by 2030. That's the challenge we're facing. And to achieve the Paris objectives, the investigation concludes that there is a need for a fundamental shift in the use of energy by the world community, which will have consequences for the Norwegian economy. The transformation we are facing will mean a rapid and strong decline in the use of fossil energy internationally. Both the reduced demand for fossil energy and technological development are going to enter the Norwegian economy in several ways, and then we cannot discuss the state budget or the Norwegian economy without taking on the significant climate risk we face and that it needs to be addressed. Let me give you some examples from the report. Firstly, climate change will be able to destabilise international policies. We can see more political instability, humanitarian disasters and violent conflicts, which in turn can lead to increased migration flows. Another example is how a tight and absolutely necessary climate policy could lower the value of remaining petroleum reserves in Norway. And that truth is brutal. We're going to make the most money in the short term if the climate targets are not met, but in the long term, the bill becomes unacceptable. The last example is how our financial assets are exposed to climate risk. When global economic growth is affected by climate change, the oil fund and our savings are also affected. The conclusion that we should draw from this report is that climate risk is completely real. We know too little about how climate risk affects all parts of Norwegian business, and there is a need to start dealing with this risk. It is urgent to ensure that the Norwegian export industry can continue to make money when the world reaches its climate objectives, it is urgent to move from the oil industry to other industries, so that we can reduce our risk and dependence, and it is urgent to follow the recommendations of the sample and to establish a set of overall principles for climate risk management. Therefore, the SV is promoting two proposals today – to get started on tackling Norway’s climate risk, where there is a greater urgency. Then I would like to add a strong call to the Minister of Finance to quickly follow up the other recommendations of the sample. Finally, a little theme change. I would like to mention briefly that I am very pleased that there is an approximate joint committee that concludes that the proposed register of beneficial owners cannot be said to be a follow-up to the request decision 496 to establish a public solution with information about shareholders. The Committee will return to the consideration of Prop. 109 L, on the register of the beneficial owners of the rights, and previous depository decisions on a register of ownership. However, the creation of a public solution with information on shareholders needs to be continued and finalised. I take up suggestions SV have alone and together with Red.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-19.ana.ud293e268	The representative Kari Elisabeth Kaski has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-19.ana.ud293e273	I join the previous speaker, the representative of the SV, in terms of the importance of assessing climate risk, and also the statements by the SV and the Workers' Party on the importance of – and now the clarity of the Committee's comment – the work on making the shareholder register more open has not been endorsed with the establishment of a register of real rights holders. It has a different purpose, and we could lose very important information about Norwegian taxpayers and Norwegian shareholders. This is a register – the shareholder register – that is important to prevent corruption. I believe that this debate should also focus more on the possibilities that the tax haven and other departments of the Ministry of Finance have to recover the revenue that is legally part of the community, through taxes and taxes. Panama Papers, Paradise Papers and Luxembourg Leaks are just some of the revelations that show that we have a big problem with tax evasion, capital evasion and economic crime. Among other things, we have an international tax system whereby both small and large multinational companies legally pay little tax. For example, Facebook, with billions of profits in Norway, has a tax bill of less than half a million dollars. If they had been taxed normally in Norway, the tax bill would have been more than 700 times higher. This is contrary to ordinary people's perception of right and wrong. The rich hide income and wealth in exotic places such as Panama or Jersey, and the big companies place the profits in less exotic places, such as Dublin or Delaware – but with the same result: low or no tax for those who already have the most. We in the Greens have nothing against people being rich or companies making money, but the patience of the tax collectors must be over. The result of the lawful and illegal placement of capital is that inequalities are increasing. Ordinary people are given responsibility for funding welfare budgets with taxes on their salaries, while those who have funds, legally and illegally, place them away. In France, we have a taste of what can happen if the differences become too great and the unfairness is experienced for brutality over time. In June this year, the Riksrevision presented a report on the Norwegian tax control of multinational companies, which I am sure the Minister of Finance already knows well. The study found some shortcomings – also a lack of interest from the Ministry of Finance. However, the report does not at least reveal a high potential. Not exercising more effective control over cross-border companies means that Norway is being bullied for billions of dollars. Over 60 pst. international trade takes place through multinational companies. In Norway, there are about 5000 companies in this position. According to the Riksrevisie, only a small number of checks led to an increase in taxable profit on average of approx. 10 B.C.E. kr per year for the period 2009-2016. In our alternative state budget, the Greens have proposed to set aside half a billion dollars to strengthen the work on economic crime and what I use to call tax fraud, and to improve our ability to collect the tax that is legitimately part of the community. In addition, we propose to reverse the government’s cheese needs through the red tape and efficiency reform, which also affects the agencies of the Ministry of Finance. Cheese chewing is an excellent way to cut if you don't want to prioritize, but often it contributes to degradation, major change processes and less efficiency per penny. It is easy to avoid taxes and taxes today if you want. The possibilities are many. I find it hard to understand that it is then cut into the resources of the agencies that are to check that we get these revenues into our common welfare state. And it worries me that we don't see a greater commitment from the government to recover the billions that are involved. This was also addressed in the Committee’s consultation on the State budget. Norwegian civil servants were among the hearing bodies that provided for increased resources for the control activities of the tax administration. Very timely, the NTL points out how the government’s desire to cut expenditure may go beyond the income of the tax system — Norway’s most profitable bureaucrats. Cheese in this sector does not save money. It costs us in lost tax revenue, and the appropriations for work against financial crime and tax planning must be increased, not cut. It'll pay off.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-19.ana.ud293e298	2018 has been marked by repeated media headlines about Stortinget's money use. The spring was marked by the construction scandal at Stortinget. In the fall, the Evening Post, through the transparency of the use of the lot of the tax money of its inhabitants, has shown a reality that strictly does not bear the light of day. This, combined with the fact that this year the Storting has once again granted itself a salary level that is above what most people have, obviously contributes to a growing political disdain in the Norwegian people – not least because politicians often ask others in society to tighten up the lifeline, such as by cutting the pension rate for the labour force through the pension reform, by cutting the social security of the disabled, or by taking away from unemployed people the holiday money and the child supplement. Now, we believe, we need an opposite Christmas bonus for the politicians on the Stortinget. We propose in our budget that the gross salary be cut to 8G, that the salary of the councils be cut to 10G, and that the salary of Erna Solberg be cut to 14G. It's going to be a total savings of $30 million per year. In June 2018, Red proposed that the political salaries be cut. That proposal only got the voice of Red. We also suggested that the Storting should again take full responsibility for its own wage development by setting down the so-called payroll commission. It was only supported by SV. To the other parties I would say, there is no shame in turning around. It's okay to think about. It is allowed to support sensible proposals from Red. In the past, this wage committee has apparently given priority to the wage growth of ordinary employees when they came up with their annual attitude on the salary of policy-makers, but in recent years the Commission has taken a kind of activistic role when they constantly recommend that our wages should be compared with those of government-owned companies, where there is a head wage growth that, according to the Riksrevision, is out of control and which many in society have reacted to is far too high. This year, the attitude of the Wage Commission was that, because of what they called a ‘systematic less-paid development’, government councils deserved a significantly higher wage growth than the result of the year’s wage settlement. Fortunately, this year, the Presidency – for the first time – chose not to follow the recommendation of the Commission at this point. It shows that Storting's presidency is perfectly capable of exercising good judgment on its own. It also shows that the payroll commission is completely indifferent to what is the sense of justice among most people. We have noticed that the presidency, based on the experience of the year, has recently made an assessment of the payroll commission scheme. Unfortunately, this scheme was found to work «to the intent and effect of the continuation of the Commission in its present form.» We in Red do not agree that pressing for even higher political salaries should be the purpose of the Wage Commission. That is why we are promoting the following proposals: ‘The Council asks the Presidency to amend the guidelines of the Grand Duchy’s Wage Commission. The changes shall ensure that the Wage and Wage Commission submits proposals to lower the remuneration and then bind it to the evolution of the basic amount of social security [[G]] Today, the appropriations for 2019 are being covered. We have to be ahead of the recommendation of the payroll commission. Therefore, in my view, the Stortinget should adopt the Red's proposal and give a clear signal to the payroll commission to put an end to these spinville recommendations on salary in line with the management salaries of state-owned companies and rather get a more moderate and responsible use of money, which is also in line with the sense of justice of the people most.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-19.ana.ud293e324	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-19.ana.ud293e329	I understand that it is in place to congratulate the representative of Moxnes on his birthday. Having said that, today we are going to deal with the budget of Storting for the third time in 2018. We're at the end of the year, after all, the effusion is a technical review of the budget and not a station to make big, new investments or to change the financial policy. But there is an opportunity to reflect on budgetary policy for the year that has passed, and within a responsible framework, government continues to invest in growth-enhancing tax relief, transport, research and education. It increases the growth capacity of the economy, and it supports it in the course of the necessary transformations. We are implementing important reforms to increase productivity and efficiency in both the public and private sectors, including municipal reform, regional reform, rail reform, police reform and reform of the higher education sector. We have also established the company Nye Veier AS. We also see that the government's policy is working. It's going well in the Norwegian economy. This year’s growth is expected to exceed the long-term trend and is expected to continue over the next few years. We see positive developments in the labour market: employment is increasing markedly, unemployment has decreased significantly. The availability is about 1 percentage point lower than when it was at its highest winter 2016. Today we also deal with the 2019 budget. Here I am particularly pleased that the government has found room for the development of new control systems and an express toll solution in the customs tariff, which is crucial both for the modernisation of the customs tariff as a whole and for industry, which will thereby reduce its costs in the context of border crossing. We have also found room for starting up the modernisation of the VAT system of the tax haven, which is important in order to ensure the country's income in the future. Finally, let me take the opportunity to wish the Finance Committee, the whole of Stortinget and the President of Storting a really good Christmas and thank you for the good cooperation this year that has gone on.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-19.ana.ud293e342	Thank you, in the same way. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-19.ana.ud293e349	I would also like to wish the Council of State a very good Christmas. I am happy to hear that there has been room for express toll within customs. I have let myself tell the customs office that they need legal changes, perhaps especially on the Swedish side, in order to digitize customs clearance, so that you do not have to stamp documents manually when customs clearance takes place. I wonder if it's known to the Council of State, and if there's anything you could work with within the Nordic Council on the cross-border work – getting the law to digitize customs clearance. It will help a lot for the customs tariff, so they can use resources on controls.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-19.ana.ud293e356	Digitisation is an important tool for different parts of government, both because it allows them to use their resources better, and because it is often a better tool for public service actors. I am not familiar with the exact claim that came from the representative, but there is at least no doubt that this work is going on in the floors, and we will look at that question in more detail.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-19.ana.ud293e361	For a long time, the government has fought with beaks and claws against removing the 350-kroner limit, which has been a completely unfair disadvantage for Norwegian business – by subsidising foreign online commerce by not having to pay any VAT or other taxes. The Stortinget has now decided to remove the 350-kroner limit, but I can't see from the majority that one has put in any means to follow it up in 2019. And then I'd like to ask the Council of State: is it so that a person does not consider that this will have any cost of tax revenue, of customs duties or otherwise, or is it such that the funds are to be taken from somewhere, without the Storting knowing it? In this case, what cuts will this involve in other areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-19.ana.ud293e368	The representative Gülsvik and I have had many debates, discussions, about the 350-kroner limit. I am now dealing with the majority decision that has been taken in Stortingen, and will follow it up appropriately.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-19.ana.ud293e373	I thought I would take the opportunity to ask the Minister of Finance how the NOU that was presented and presented to her on 12 December, about climate risks and consequences for the Norwegian economy, will be followed up from the Ministry further, and whether we can expect a case to be brought to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-19.ana.ud293e378	As I said when I received the report of the Climate Risk Committee, it will be sent to the hearing, so that we can get the societal debate that we need in the wake of a large and important public investigation. Then the government will follow up properly after that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-19.ana.ud293e383	I will begin by wishing good Christmas back. We still have a few minutes available here, and I have noticed that the tax rate from 1 January 2019 will be reorganised. There are fairly large processes in which the tax rate should be included. At the same time, they shall maintain the same performance targets as they had before, and they shall be part of this efficiency reform, which means that they have been cut off from the appropriations. Then some new appropriations have been transferred, 300 million. kr, but they go to reorganization, new IT systems and completely different things. So my question now at the bottom of the year is: what does the Minister of Finance do to ensure that both the control of the tax rate on domestic pricing within multinational companies and the collection of revenue that is legitimately part of the community, taxes and taxes are strengthened? We need to focus more on this – an increased effort, not cut, in that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-19.ana.ud293e392	The reorganization project, the so-called New Tax, is also an initiative from the department itself, which is about aligning resource use in a way that makes us get the most back for money. It would be to the benefit of the establishment, but not least for Norwegian businesses and taxpayers, that we have an office that is constantly overseen to provide good services. This is one of the lighthouses we also have in the area of digitalisation in the Norwegian public administration, it's an establishment that has a lot to be proud of. The government, and the Minister of Finance, through the governance dialogue with the tax administration, has closely followed up all the projects that we believe are important. It is also worth mentioning that the results to which the tax rate can refer in many of the areas in which the representative is involved are good, and that is because these are areas where the tax rate is closely monitored.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-19.ana.ud293e400	We in Red think that the two of us should cut our wages. We believe that politicians have been paid too much – or, that is, given themselves too high a salary, because that is what is really happening on the Grand Duchy, also for the members of the government – and that when we earn twice what people most earn, the gap has become too big. We believe that to be a challenge to trust in politics, to growth and government, especially in combination with all the good things that we have on the Stortinget and in the government, which most people can look forward to. So we have long asked for the Progress Party's view on the matter – whether they can support that we get a more moderate salary on Stortinget. Can Siv Jensen now put on the party leader's hat and just give a fundamental consideration to what she thinks about the politicians' wages being so far above what people most earn? I'm glad to get a little consideration around it from party leader Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-19.ana.ud293e405	Councillor Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-19.ana.ud293e410	In any case, it is the Minister of Finance who answers questions from the Storting, and with regard to the proposal just put forward by the representative of Moxnes, it is a question that the Storting must deal with and the Storting must answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-19.ana.ud293e415	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-19.ana.ud293e422	I'll just give you a brief explanation of vote. SV will vote in favour of resolving Red's proposal on the salary of large-scale representatives. We are probably in the tenth or eleventh year now, where SV has proposed to reduce the salary of depositors. We have a different model than the one contained in the proposal from the representative of Moxnes, so if the proposal falls today, SV, as we use, is going to promote our model and our proposal in line with the regular treatment related to wage developments for the aggregates representatives of spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-19.ana.ud293e427	It might be tempting to comment on both the representative Asheim and the finance minister's description of the more macro-economic lines of policy, but since we've discussed it twice before in December and the Christmas peace is about to sink over the main hall, I'll leave it alone. I'll give you a brief explanation of vote, too. There is no doubt that the report from the Climate Risk Committee, which came just a week ago, is a very important document and it will be an important document to follow up. For the Workers' Party, we have expectations that the government will do so as quickly as possible, but also with a proper procedure linked to the normal hearing of the NOU. There are many important issues in that document, and I agree with Mr Kaski that the report from the Climate Risk Committee should be compulsory for everyone in the Committee on Finance. Now it is possible that some of us have been working with a little other things over the past week, but I have to admit that I am among those who do not know the report from the sample – at least not so much – yet, and I therefore find reason to be able to work with it a little more before I decide on concrete questions contained in the proposal that SV has raised. This applies to both proposal No. 2 and proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox As regards proposal No: 2, we believe that it is consistent with what we have been working on in the finance committee in the past and have had proposals on, so we are going to vote in favour of proposal No. 2 but we believe that proposal No. 3 deserves a thorough consultation and thorough treatment before we take a concrete view of this in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-19.ana.ud293e434	That's the last word. Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Two and three.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-19.ana.ud293e446	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-19.ana.ud293e510	Four proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Kari Elisabeth Kaski on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party the proposals No 2 and 3, by Kari Elisabeth Kaski, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 4, from Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-19.ana.ud293e525	First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. Four, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Council asks the Presidency to amend the guidelines of the Grand Duchy’s Wage Commission. The changes shall ensure that the Wage and Wage Commission submits proposals to lower the remuneration and then bind it to the evolution of the basic amount of social security [[G]] The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-19.ana.ud293e542	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size indicates that the Climate Risk Committee in NOU 2018: 17 recommends stress testing of petroleum policy and that climate risk needs to be systematically made visible in decisions on petroleum projects, and therefore asks the government to include all policy treatments of plans for expansion and operation on a Norwegian base in an assessment of the climate risk of investment against different climate scenarios.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-19.ana.ud293e559	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal sounds. ‘The size indicates that the Climate Risk Committee in NOU 2018: 17 recommends stressing fiscal policies against scenarios of different severity of climate change, and asks the government to give such a mandate to the Financial Supervisory Authority.’ The Labour Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-19.ana.ud293e576	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the conditional commitment of Space Norway AS to equity that satellites are not associated with equipment that can be used for other countries’ nuclear weapons systems’. The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-19.ana.ud293e2637	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-19.ana.ud293e2649	Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-19.ana.ud293e3723	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-12-19.ana.ud293e6240	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. The President will remind you that the first meeting of the New Year will be Tuesday, January 8, at 8 a.m. 10th@item: inlistbox As this is the last major meeting in 2018, the President will take the opportunity to thank everyone for the efforts made this autumn. The President would like all the representatives, the members of the government, all the employees, the press and everyone else who has their work related to the Stortinget, a happy Christmas and a really good new year. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? I don't think so. - Merry Christmas! The meeting has been cancelled.
