ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e28	The so-called alternate of Oslo, Carl I. Hagen, is now taking his seat. An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Central Party Group for the representative of Liv Signe Navarsete from 17 October until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Steinar Ness, is invited to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e50	Steinar Ness is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e66	On Monday, the Stortinge received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State, Siv Jensen, Monica Mæland and Bård Hoksrud will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e75	My question goes to the Minister of Finance. I want to ask questions about different types of increased differences and what we can do about it. The government budget, which came last week, was characterised by cuts in support for vulnerable groups. There is still a very distorted social distribution in terms of tax cuts, and charges are increasing for ordinary people. The nursery prices have increased by over 700 kroner per month with Siv Jensen as Minister of Finance. In total, this policy helps to increase inequalities — not to reduce them. Against this background, we are going to meet one of the perhaps most alarming developments in Norwegian society, namely that there are fewer and fewer children born. The fall is strong and in a short time. In 2016 Norwegian women had an average of 1.71 children. The following year, the total fertility rate was 1.62 children per woman — the lowest ever measured in Norway. And I can remind you that we need on average a little over 2 children per woman to maintain the population over time. Women wait longer before they have their first child, and fewer have a child no. 3 or more. Researchers point to the importance of economic uncertainty for the decline in birth rates. It's also a complicated field to be precise about what's the cause here. The fact that families with quite common incomes experience a high threshold for entering a high-priced housing market and that kindergartens are becoming significantly more expensive per month is one of the factors contributing to economic uncertainty. Today, we heard the Minister of Finance say that with housing prices she had nothing to do with it, that it is determined by supply and demand, and that it was demanding for her herself to enter the housing market in her time – not politics there, that is. But why has this government made it more expensive every year for ordinary families to have their children in kindergarten?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e88	Let me first thank you for a very good but comprehensive question. I think it's important that we discuss how we can do something about the number of childbirths. I may have to say that I'm a little sorry that I haven't even helped to draw that statistics up, but I think it's important that we discuss it. The Minister for the Child himself has suggested that we should take a thorough discussion of what we can do. At the same time, we must recognize that we have among the world’s best schemes for families with children. It must be a little strange for Jonas Gahr Støre to look back on the alternative state budget presented by the Workers' Party for 2018, where they proposed to both remove the entire cash support and cut support for non-municipal kindergartens. That was a total cut of almost 1 billion. kr for the families with children, but if the Workers' Party has now been occupied with looking at the conditions of the families with children for various reasons, I think it is good. It's been a long time for this government. That is why, in cooperation with the Christian People's Party, we have strengthened the cash support. We have strengthened many schemes for families with children – one-off support to mention something. In addition, I believe that the state budget for 2019 has a fundamental social profile, in the sense that there are children in particular growing up in child poverty, we are trying to do something for. It is about facilitating that even two-year-olds can enter free core time in kindergartens, it is about holiday offers and activities that make you unable to experience the stigmatisation that very many children in poor families do. But the most important thing we do to reduce child poverty is to make sure that both parents get to work. We know that a significant proportion of children growing up in poverty in Norway are from immigrant families, where only one of their parents works. If we can also get mother in Norwegian education and then get to work, the most important contribution we can make is to strengthen the family's economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e95	I agree that it is important to get both parents to work. I also believe that this is too small. My question was about kindergarten prices, and so the government has put in place a free nursery system for those with the lowest income. The bill for it is sent to other families with children, which compared to the time when the right-wing government took over, has to go out at NOK 13 000 more per year if they have two children in kindergarten. This applies to all those with an income of more than approx. A total of 550 000 kroner, i.e. an average income of 275000. In the past, and this has something to do with politics and inequality, the Minister of Finance has said that the increase in the maximum price is good because it concerns ‘those of us who have the freedom to pay’. If we start from a family where both mother and father earn less than 300,000, do housing loans and two children in kindergarten: Will the Prime Minister characterize their economy as liberal? So you have to pay more for someone to get it for free.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e104	State Council Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e111	I don't know how the Prime Minister will characterize it, but the Minister of Finance believes that what we've done has been a real redistribution. It is about giving a modest increase in the maximum price in order to use the space for action to strengthen measures for children growing up in child poverty. I think that has a fundamental social profile, and it has proved to be good, targeted action because more children are thus given the opportunity to go to kindergarten. Then you have to see this together. So we're in a situation where things are going very well in the Norwegian economy. Unemployment goes down, employment goes up, more people go to work. The government has reduced the total taxes and charges by 25 billion. kr. That means that an average family with the budget we have now provided has got $11,000 in relief. So you have to look at the sum of what we're doing. Nor do I think you can run from the fact that Norway is emerging as one of the few countries in the world with very good schemes for families with children. There have been misguided policies from changing governments over time because we believe it is right.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e120	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e125	That's how we divide this bill, this is about: they've got NOK 11,000 in tax credits, but if the kindergarten places have been $13,000 more expensive, it says something about what the total bill is. At the same time, they are given big tax cuts with the most. So, when you're going to give someone cheaper babysitting places, you take from other kindergarten parents who have no liberal economy in any way, and you leave them with most of the big tax cuts. So, according to Siv Jensen's own numbers, an average family has 11,000, and then there are 13 000 more expensive in kindergarten. Does the Minister of Finance see that this financial burden can be a contributing factor — in addition to the challenge on the housing market for people with normal education and jobs — in refusing to have children with number two and number three? Can economic differences be one of the reasons — in a complex picture — why we have had this severe fall in childbirth in our country?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e132	As far as the development of childbirth is concerned, I believe, as the Minister for Children, that it is an important issue to look at, because of course it is also about the sustainability of our future economy. So I think it's important questions to travel. There are many and varied reasons why families have children later than before. It may have to do with education, it may have to do with other choices in life; it is in any case a private matter when you decide to have children. But we must have arrangements that do not prevent you from having children, nor in the study period, and it is something that this government has mentioned in the Jeleya platform that we want to follow up. I believe that we need to look at a wide range of instruments to see if we can strengthen the schemes, but we also need to recognise that we have quite good arrangements for families with children in Norway – among the best in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e141	Fredric Holen Bjørdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e147	More expensive kindergarten is one example of a larger stretch in the layer, that they are getting more and more at the expense of those sitting at the bottom of the table. It probably doesn't make much sense to Siv Jensen, who runs a party that's long thought it's not a political task to even out such differences. But after five years of tax cuts to rich people and unsocial cuts to those who need the most welfare state, Siv Jensen has apparently turned the tile around. Under the crystal-crystalline crowns in the Old Log, the government has had a seminar and announced that it will now be happening; now the differences will be reduced – not with redistribution, not with political grips, but with a revolutionary response: a growth message. Is it that the Minister of Finance thinks it is words that reduce differences, or is it actually political action that needs to be?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e154	Firstly, the Storing has wanted a big message to be made, but if the Labour Party representative does not want it, the Government intends to present it – not because it is important to put forward words, but because it is important to point out what we can develop further to tackle the challenges we face in terms of groups growing up in poverty. I totally disagree with the initial claim that we are pursuing a policy that is at the expense of those sitting at the bottom of the table. Rather, the whole state budget for 2019 is marked by the opposite. It's about redistributing just to strengthen the measures for those sitting at the bottom of the table. This government has prioritised drugs and mental health. We have prioritised families with poor finances. We will continue to do so in the state budget for next year. I think it has a basic social profile. Then it's wrong, the repeated claims that the tax haven't gone to them with the most from before. Tax reliefs are evenly distributed both to business and to ordinary people.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e163	Fredric Holen Bjørdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e168	Well, a big message or a seminar in Oslo Centre doesn't help those who every day have to turn to the crown, those who have to choose between paying the nursery allowance to the minimum man or sending the oldest one to the football cup. There is a big difference here between the right and the left in Norwegian politics, in any case, and the willingness not only to talk about differences when it's politically opportunistic, but actually to use political decisions to reverse developments. Let me do an example. On Siv Jensen's watch, it's been easier to set people up temporarily. It has been more expensive to be trade-organized. The government has even recognised the unorganised working life. When we know how important firm, secure jobs are just to fight economic differences, why does the government do everything it can to facilitate the fundamental opposite?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e175	This is with respect to reporting completely wrong. Firstly, permanent employment is the general rule in Norwegian working life, and this government agrees. Secondly, I agree that what helps is concrete action. That is why we have proposed a wide range of concrete actions in the State budget for 2019 that will just meet those with challenges. That's why we're now making it possible for two-year-olds to have free core time in kindergarten. This is why we have a wide range of other measures that will allow you to get holiday offers and other activities in a situation where the family itself cannot afford it. However, no matter how many of the kind of measures and instruments we continue to include in the government budgets in the future, it will still be absolutely essential that we facilitate the entry of both parents into work. This is about good framework conditions for Norwegian business, but it is also about, as I said instead, that minority women who may not be able to Norwegian, who have never been out in Norwegian working life, are given the opportunity to do so, and so their children must be in kindergarten.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e180	Anette Trettebergstuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e185	Yes, the differences are increasing in our country. Differences between women and men are increasing, and gender equality also increases during this government. A good picture of everything is that from approx. Today and out of the year, Norwegian women work free of charge, because we make 85 pst. of what men serve. This week there have been a number of forecasts of large pay differentials in the ministries. Worst is the Ministry of Finance, which the State Council of Jensen heads, which, in addition to men who earn an average of NOK 127 000 more than women, secretes information on wages. We're used to all government councils asking business to clean up when you hear these kinds of things happen. But the government is the government, so what will the Council of State do to clean up this?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e194	Let me start by saying, because the representative started to talk about the growing differences in Norway: we live in a country with very small differences, if you compare with almost any other country. It's about having a basic redistribution in a lot of what we do, for example. because we have tax-funded welfare schemes. So to the departments: I believe that both the Ministry of Finance and other departments should be open, sharing information. There is nothing to suggest that there is a gender difference in the remuneration of the Ministry of Finance. It is related to seniority, and it is related to positions, but it is not related to gender. I also believe that we have been able to document that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e201	Anette Trettebergstuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e206	Obviously, the cases put on the table have not been dealt with, and it is strange that neither the Ministry nor the Council of State can then confirm this. It's easy to say that you're for equal pay, and that things have to be cleaned up. But unlike the Progress Party, we in the Labour Party are actually willing to do something, and over the last few years we have made a number of proposals to improve the equal pay problem in Norway that would also have an impact on the departments. Where you don't do anything, nothing happens, and it doesn't have to be concerned about the problem as long as you don't want to pursue a policy that actually corrects the problems. The Progress Party's principal programme reads that it is not a public task to balance wage differences that naturally arise in the labour market. Does the Council of State think that this is a wise attitude to the differences in equal pay in our society?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e215	I think you should base the policy that the government is actually pursuing, rather than reading out the principal programmes of the various government parties. We've been busy facilitating a good wage development. We have a good and clear relationship with the social partners. I sincerely believe that having neat, good conditions at work is important to all of us, and it is of course also about the fact that the development of wages must be good and sensible for both sexes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e221	Per Olaf Lundtigen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e226	For the Centre Party, family security is important, and well-organised working life is a prerequisite for a safe family life. Predictability of work gives predictability of income. It provides security for everyone in the family, not least for the children. Unfortunately, not all parents can have income-intensive work because of health problems. For the Central Party, it is important that parents who are under the responsibility of children should be given a decent life, because we know that disability involves a great loss of quality of life and life. These children are in a vulnerable situation. The government is running the line of work so hard and brutally against such families that the economically tested child supplement of disability is reduced, so that the sum is lower than the modest income of many of these parents before they have had the disability after a long investigation. My question is, how important is it for the government to save this money on the state budget when it hits children who know poverty the closest to life?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e233	What matters to the government is that we should have good, safe and generous welfare arrangements for those who need it. Then we must at the same time facilitate that many of those who have been outside the labour market for a long time have the opportunity to get across the barriers that you experience there, in order to be able to participate in the ordinary working life. There has been one of the main reasons for inclusion that the government has now started, and we are in close and close dialogue with the social partners. It is about more employers having to give people with holes in the CV a chance, people who have had a challenge in life – whether it has been a drug problem, a mental disorder or what it might be. There are too many people in our society who want to work, but who have felt parked outside the Norwegian labour market for too long. We can't afford it as a society – we can't afford to treat people like this. At the same time, however, we need to ensure that those who do not have the opportunity to participate in the labour market have good and safe welfare arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e238	Per Olaf Lundtigen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e243	It is of course important to facilitate the inclusion of all of them. So the people we're talking about here are parents who are dissatisfied, who are responsible for children, who get a child supplement that's tested out of parents' income. And then it's so important for the government to cut out that children's supplement, because the sum of disability benefits and child allowances will in some cases exceed the modest income that the disabled person had before he or she finally got disability benefits. How important is it for the government – it was my question – to save this money against the most vulnerable groups and the children who feel poverty the closest to life?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e250	I answered that. What is important for this government is that, on the one hand, we have safe, good welfare arrangements for those who need it, and, at the same time, we should facilitate that many of those who do not experience being seen and assessed as candidates for Norwegian employment are more likely to do so. It will be an important contribution to strengthening the individual’s economy; it will be good for the social economy. But there is a cross-political consensus in this Chamber that we should stick to good, rusty, safe welfare arrangements. This government has also facilitated this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e255	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e260	For the Christian People's Party, fighting for families has always been important. It's because the family is the basic cell of society. It is built from below: having good, safe families that are allowed to choose what they want – for all families are different – is an enormously important value. I think if you succeed in creating the safe families, you get safer kids, you get families that stick more together. Young people who grow up and are safe become better students and later better workers. Betting on the family will always be important for the Christian People's Party. A positive side effect is that it also meets the challenges pointed to by the representative Gahr Støre, namely that birth rates are too low. When I read the documents that the Minister of Finance comes with, I see that to ensure the sustainability of society, we need more hands to take care of the elderly, and we need more workers who can pay taxes. I feel that the Minister of Finance does not have any measures to increase birth rates. Is it that when the Minister of Finance does not focus on increasing birth rates, there is an increase in immigration that is the answer to Siv Jensen?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e267	Let me first say that I fully agree with the representative Roppstad on the importance of facilitating freedom of choice for families with children. That's exactly why it's been important to have several different arrangements, so that families can set up their own lives as they please. There has been one of the reasons why government parties, together with the Christian People's Party, have strengthened and improved many schemes for families with children over the last five years, not least the strengthening of cash support that has taken place. It is probably the Minister for Children who should be more challenged about what we can do in the future to increase birth rates. I agree, as I also said to the representative Gahr Støre, that this is an important debate to take, important to see if there are other measures we should take to facilitate the future rise of birth rates. I think it's important. So we know from history that responding to this through increased immigration, not without a doubt, is a strength for the sustainability of our economy. Many of the challenges presented by the government in the perspective communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e274	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e279	My question goes to the Minister of State. In the municipal bill for 2019, the government posted a growth of 2.6 billion. SEK – 3,2 billion. kr. In the budget they land in the bottom of the interval. $2,6 billion. hardly enough covers the cost of demography. Municipalities are the leading providers of basic services for the inhabitants. By restricting the space for action of municipalities through zero growth in budgets, significant efficiency requirements and new tasks, the municipalities have to pay in the form of a reduced service provision. Increased expenditure on resource-intensive services and staffing standards in kindergartens are a few examples of expenditure incurred by municipalities without increasing the framework. An increasing number of state priorities are providing leadership for municipalities through earmarked projects and state standards are not fully funded. Then the money has to be taken from somewhere else. In addition to the announced interest rate increase estimated at 700 million. kr, the government has also reduced the possibility of income by amending the rules on property taxes. Municipalities no longer have a choice – they have to cut into services. It is ultimately about basic services for most people and the ability of municipalities to maintain the quality of service provision. They've been streamlining operations for many years, and many have cut to the bone. This applies not least to the municipalities that suffer the most from the conversion of the income system. Citizens of municipalities who choose to continue as independent municipalities are the ones that are most penalised. The head of the KS, Gunn Marit Helgesen, said in his comment to the state budget: It is demanding that the government create expectations that the state budget does not allow for compliance. The municipalities get less routed, and it has to be cut. Where does the Council of State want the local government to cut? Is it for the kids in primary school? Is it for those who depend on home care? Or are the elderly in the hospital paying the price?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e295	It may not be surprising that I do not know myself at all in the description of the proposed municipal structure for the next year, as I did not recognize myself in the description of the Senterpartiet and some others tried to give of how it would go with the municipalities under a bourgeois government. It's been very well. We've had historical growth in the local economy over the last five years. That's because we've been giving priority to kindergarten, school, care for the elderly, nursing. It also shows the results: the service provision has improved, the results of municipalities are good, and we have a record low number of municipalities on the ROBEK list, which is the list of municipalities that are struggling. We have put forward a plan for next year that is not a zero growth or cut topping. We have put forward a scheme that gives a growth in the free income of $2.6 billion. kr. It's not right not to cover demography – it does with 1 billion. kr. Pension costs are covered. In addition, we also have clear initiatives in the field of drugs, in the action plan for rehabilitation and rehabilitation, at early school interventions. We have a lot of work to do on health, on school health, on psychologists, on the construction of lucky day care places. So it's a very good community arrangement. Nor is it right that there is no room to make the municipalities more efficient. It's a room for it of 1.2 billion. If you take into account the calculations that have been made. This will be up to the municipalities to assess how they will do, but it is a solid arrangement to improve the offer to those who need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e304	I note that the Council of State disagrees entirely with the KS’s assessment, where they say that this is a government budget that does not allow it to meet expectations. But now to something completely different, and it's about fire protection in the municipalities. The response time for ambulances and police has increased sharply in recent years, especially in the districts. It is now that you have to search with light and light to find a municipality where the response time is met. This has meant that the municipal fire department will have to take on more and more tasks that it really is the police and ambulance that should take care of. Many municipalities today claim that half of the missions carried out by the fire department are tasks that should have been carried out by the state through police and ambulance. This gives the municipalities considerable extra costs and means that the fire service must assume responsibility for which they are not qualified. Does the Council agree with me that this entails considerable additional costs for the municipalities, and that more tasks will be transferred to the municipalities without the money being included? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e313	The President must ask that speaking time be observed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e318	I agree that municipalities should carry out municipal tasks, so the state should take responsibility for state tasks. So I guess that's not right, as the representative says, that the police response time has gone up. I guess it's actually gone down, if I remember the numbers correctly. I have with great interest met the local fire department in the summer in connection with the forest fires, and at the latest yesterday in connection with the flood. There is a fantastic work done by the police, by volunteers and by the fire service throughout Norway when required. And then I assume that each municipality is discussing with the police and health companies about the tasks they are going to perform.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e325	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Heidi Greni.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e330	I have not met a single district council where the response time has fallen, and in the case of ambulances, it has risen sharply. My question is, if we recognize that the fire service has been given a whole lot of tasks over the past few years, as has been the ambulance and police that have done in the past, does the Council of State believe it is right that the municipal fire service should have these tasks? Take, for example, the task of damages officer, who has been a traditional fire department task; it does not have the same ability to perform fire services because they also have to be ambulances and police at the points of damage. One thing is the false security this creates, but does the Council of State think it is right that the municipal fire service should continue to be imposed on these state tasks?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e335	I have in and of my own accord responded to it. The municipality shall not perform State tasks unless there is agreement between the municipality and the State on it. Then the representative bases the facts that I do not have the basis for commenting on. These are agreements that have to be made between the fire department, the health services and the police, and I assume that there is good dialogue – at least that is my impression – especially in the districts, between the various emergency seats.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e340	Bjørn Arild Gram – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e345	The government believes that the action space for municipalities is increasing next year, but the income framework does not tell the whole truth about what will become the real space for action next year, and cost developments are also important. A little bit more hidden in budgetary presentations, the government reduces the government's contribution to resource-intensive services, this time estimated at 300 million. kr. In total, the government has weakened the top-level financing scheme by 1 billion. in the last three years, and in addition to the fact that the other costs incurred by municipalities to resource-intensive users have increased at least as much. Does the Minister of State acknowledge that the presentation of the action rooms of the municipalities gives a somewhat distorted picture of what is the real situation, and that the tightening up of the scheme alone zeros out the entire estimated increased economic space for next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e352	I am pleased with that question because it is made up of the impression that the government is cutting in the offer of resource-intensive users – so we do not. These are users who are entitled to help, and the help they will receive. We're calculating next year to spend half a billion more on this area, a total of 10 billion. NOK, and we expect 350 new users to come to this scheme. I think we have to admit that this is a system that has had an explosive growth since its introduction. It's grown from 1.5 billion. NOK 10 to SEK 10 billion. kr. The number of users is more than double and the cost per user has doubled. So it is not unreasonable that any of that increase in costs is referred to the municipalities. The municipalities are responsible for organising this service and are closest to doing so in the best possible way, in the interests of users.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e359	Bengt Fasterøne – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e365	Now it happens again, this time it was, for example. the municipality of Skåk in the Nord-Gudbrandsdalen, which was hit. The building is left with great damage after the side rivers to the river Otta have flooded over large parts of the center. Similar events have occurred in many municipalities in the Gudbrand valley and the rest of the country in recent years. Crisis management and cross-border cooperation work well. Conditions are small, resources find each other when it is on, and a massive effort is being made locally to limit damage and safeguard people’s security. But the work after it is very demanding. Municipal services are being affected to finance excesses to repair the damage, which are high and unforeseeable. The municipalities and the NVE know what it takes to avoid this chaos that costs society a lot of resources every year. Will the municipal minister, who was closest to the municipal councils, guarantee that the municipalities do not suffer significant financial losses and actively work for a significant advance in the work on prevention?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e372	It has been impressive to see, both in Setesdal this summer and in the Gudbrand valley yesterday, how everyone works side by side – public and private, different public institutions from the municipality and state – and how it makes a huge effort. There is every reason to praise the municipalities for the job they do. No municipalities should be left alone if they are charged large additional costs. It is then necessary to apply for beauties through County to receive grants to clean up afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e379	Marit Knutsdatter Strand – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e384	On Monday I attended a meeting at Lillehammer and discussed the teachers. The feedback from municipal politicians, teachers, students and parents was unique and stands in stark contrast with the reality description provided by the government in the draft state budget, as well as the contributions from the Council of State here today. Where the sum of new government charges and increased costs is far higher than the income of municipalities from the country, the calculation does not go up. The contribution to the municipalities does not outweigh the price increase. This requires, for example: cut into teaching positions locally. The government is adding up its bet, which allows the schools to keep the teachers they had to kick – it's a zero-sum game with teacher positions. Furthermore, it provides under-funding for increased staffing, which plays out many children and kindergartens, especially in small kindergartens. What makes the Council of State feel that the government is strengthening the quality and offer of kindergartens and schools, when kindergartens and schools do not experience the same thing throughout the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e391	This government – in cooperation with the Christian People's Party – has for many years prioritised early school efforts. We've increased school budgets too early by about 1.6 billion. kr, if I remember the numbers correctly. We're increasing it by 200 million. kr for the next year to reach the teacher’s norm. So this isn't a cut budget; it's an increase to the municipalities, in order to reach the standard of teachers that's laid down. The local authorities can use the money differently. We have local autonomy, and local priorities do. But you can't refer to the municipal framework when you have to point out cuts. There's a growth of 2.6 billion. SEK to the next year for the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e396	Ole André Myhrvold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e401	It is doubtful to see people get life's work destroyed, cellars filled with water, and public infrastructure being destroyed by water. Climate change and extreme weather affect municipalities and ultimately people. Yesterday, the Council of State was with two colleagues in Skåk to look at the flood damage and the cleaning work. It's affordable. But there is an extreme need for climate change adaptation in individual municipalities. For example, Odda Municipality has spent 100 million. kr to secure the river Opo after the flood in 2014. In the weekend the masses of water threatened again the center of Odda, and the bridge over Opo was closed. There are state subsidies for climate adaptation, but even more so, all projects require local authorities to provide funds. Public spending is good when the disaster is over, and in the Ministry of Local Affairs' budget proposals, it is a modest increase in prevention of 4 million. NOK 158 million. kr. Is the Council of State that the municipal structure should enable the municipalities to deal with and prevent more extreme weather, floods and migration, or must the municipalities expect to carry out flood prevention through e.g. increased property taxes and higher municipal taxes?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e410	The state actually has a solid stake in this area, and last night I saw the result of investment NVE has done in the Gudbrand valley, just to prevent this kind of accident. Next year, we're proposing 400 million. kr in contributions to the NVE in order to contribute to flood protection in municipalities. So we're still going to bet on this. In addition, all the bets made within transport are made when road and track are built, where both flood protection and slip protection are carried out. So there's a significant effort on the part of the state. In my opinion, we also need to look closely at how we plan, for example. how we plan where to build dwellings. We have a responsibility for that through legislation and regulations. We have a responsibility to follow up the municipalities, and we do so, among other things. by setting stronger requirements for climate adaptation. It is about preventing rather than repairing in retrospect.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e419	Rigmor Aasrud – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e424	I hear the council say it's a good municipality arrangement. When we go into the numbers, it says that there's a real growth of 0.7 pst. I guess that's right when it's in the budget. In fact, you have to go all the way back to 2005 – I don't know if it has any connection with where the municipal minister came from at that time – in order to have such a poor real growth for the municipalities. It was 0.75 pst. in 2005. A real growth of 0.7 pst. is 900 million. kr. Of them, the government has told you to spend 600 million. kr on very specific problems, and you leave a bill of 300 million. kr to the municipalities of the resource-intensive users. So we're at zero. And in the scheme that is now presented, we have not heard anything about the care of the elderly. Does this mean that the government believes that care for the elderly in Norwegian municipalities is good?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e431	I have explained the calculation regarding the municipality layout. It's a municipality with free income of 2.6 billion. kr. It covers retirement and demography. What is demography? Demographics are just increasing expenditure on schools, kindergartens and care for the elderly — for more people in need of care. In addition, funding comes to the drug field, rehabilitation, rehabilitation and all the arrangements we have on the health budget that are just about to go to better care for the elderly. So to answer your question, yes, a lot of good care for the elderly is done in the municipalities. It does a wonderful job, but of course it can always be done better, and here the municipalities are the best ones to give priority to the areas where they have challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e439	Rigmor Aasrud – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e444	I agree that the demographic costs are covered by the scheme presented. But that means that there are several older people who are going to have an offer, it says nothing about being able to raise the offer to those who are out there. When you leave a bill of $300 million. I find it difficult to understand that there is a commitment to care for the elderly in the municipal sector. For municipal politicians, care for the elderly, school and kindergarten are the major areas. When you are initially at zero, before you have had to take in less income from property taxes – from which this government has provided less income for municipalities – there will be no grip. So I ask the Council of State to explain: Where is the commitment to care for the elderly in this municipality?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e449	I'm very happy if more people can pay a little less property tax. It's a tax that hits completely unsocially – it doesn't hit a wallet, it hits a house, and it hits not least many older people who live in a house. So I'm glad. We don't just cover demography expenses of 1 billion. I'm going to have $1.6 billion. kr in increased free income. Then all the health budget bets come in as well. So it's a room for action. The municipalities have had good results in recent years, and there is every reason to believe that municipalities will provide even better services next year with the arrangements we have provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e454	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e459	I don't believe this number magic that the Council of State is now doing, makes any particular impression, neither on the relatives that I meet, and who are so worn out that they get sick and need the sick home place seal, nor the employees I meet, who skip their health, and even have to medicate patients at home because there aren't enough employees there to take care of them. So there's a need for a big effort in the care of the elderly. The problem that the government has now over four years cut a billion in the resource-intensive services scheme when we sum up over the last few years is probably not that they lose services, because the municipalities cannot, but it goes beyond the other care, the care of the elderly. Then we might read the solution in Life for the rest of our lives – that it is the relatives, the employees and the older seas that will be responsible for the whole improvement of care for the elderly. Is that the real priority of the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e466	With all due respect, several representatives have now been involved in the so-called resource-intensive user cut. Let me repeat that we're going to spend 10 billion. next year on resource-intensive users. That's half a billion more than this year. We're going to help 350 more resource-intensive users. This is a system that has had an explosive growth. It is not unreasonable for those responsible for operating this service to receive some of the increase in costs. And it must be allowed to remind the representative Andersen that the last government that her party put in was to increase the municipal share. Now we're covering 80 pst. of the bill of more than 1,3 million. kr. The red-green government proposed to reduce it to 75 pst. It would give dramatic expenses to the municipalities. So referring a small proportion to the municipalities, which can actually operate these services in a better way, I think is right.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e471	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e476	That story we can go a little bit further and see that every time the Right has had the power in this area, the cuts have become even bigger. That is the reality. I have to say that in SV we are very happy, because this scheme is about people surviving serious illness longer, that you have the opportunity to live with it. That is what this scheme is all about, not that it is a large and unpleasant expenditure for neither the state nor the municipalities. But I want to go back to another question. Municipalities also get income from businesses, and there we have arrangements. In the budget, the government writes that the regional policy instruments through the county municipalities provide an average of 5.6 pst. higher growth in value creation in enterprises created through these funds. And it's going to be 6.1 pst. several employees. These are incomes that the district authorities could obtain in order to improve care for the elderly and offer them. What is the reason why the government cut 68 pst in its period? of this money that creates jobs and businesses on which municipalities can make money?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e483	I understand that the representative does not want to talk more about resource-intensive users, because it must be raised beyond doubt that reducing the state effort from 80 pst. of the bill of 75 pst., gives the municipalities a much larger bill than the proposal for next year. In terms of regional policy instruments, it is quite simply that we believe there are other instruments that hit businesses across the country, in all sectors, better. That's why we're giving priority to the county road network. We're giving priority to transportation. We give priority, not least to schemes in Innovation Norway, in the SIVA, in the Research Council, for which all enterprises throughout the country can benefit. We have far too little knowledge of the effectiveness of regional policy instruments, they are used equally and differently across the country. We need to know that what we're doing hits, and that's what the situation in recent years has shown, where businesses throughout Norway have shown a tremendous ability to change, among other things. using the measures I have now explained.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e490	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e495	My question goes to the Minister of Finance. Differences in power and wealth are increasing in Norway. We know that great differences are poisoned for a society. It provides lower trust, less community and less defence for common well-being. When a small group at the top controls more and more wealth and gains more power, you can ask yourself whether they want to work and use that power to promote the interests of the community, or whether they want to work and lobby for less taxes. We see that we have a government that prioritises tax cuts for the richest and pays for it with welfare cuts. Sv promoted at the opening of the Storting 15 proposals to examine how the government's well-being has turned out for people affected. We're talking about cutting the housing stock, cutting the disability allowance, cutting the children's allowance for disability, cutting the redundancy allowance and cutting the transitional benefit for lonely parents, to mention something. At the same time, the wealthiest in Norway is growing rapidly. A recent analysis by the SSB shows that the richest percentage now owns almost a quarter of all wealth in Norway, much because they have large equity assets. Then it is interesting that the government through the cut in the property tax gives a targeted tax cut to those with large equity assets. We have asked the Ministry of Finance about the impact of our proposals on the State budget. The result is that those with a fortune of over 100 million. kr, the lucky 2,200 people in Norway, on average get a tax cut of 104,600 kroner each. My question is: how does the Minister of Finance think that these targeted tax cuts to those with the highest equity will affect the differences in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e507	I think it is good that we are constantly discussing how we can keep Norway as a country with small differences. We're going to be glad that that's the situation, when the differences increase dramatically in many other places in the world. One of the reasons why differences are small in Norway is that we have a fundamental redistribution in almost everything we do over a government budget. When I presented the state budget last Monday, I spent some time at the press conference to illustrate the amount of what is distributed over the state budget, which is actually about fundamental redistribution, which shows how fundamental the social budget is. That is the broad consensus. In addition, the Government of the State Budget for 2019 continues to strengthen arrangements for those who are exposed in our society, at the bottom of the table, who have challenges. That's why we've been giving priority to spending time on drugs and mental disorders. That is why we put in place targeted measures for children growing up in low-income families. This is also why it is important for governments to focus more actively on integration – knowing that many children who grow up in low-income families are from immigrant families, where only one parent is working. Then it's about getting mother, as it often is, to learn Norwegian and get into work, so that the family's income increases. This is why it has been important for the government to start the inclusion campaign, which is about many of those who feel outside the labour market to come in. That's why we've been busy working with a lot of different actions to help reduce the relatively small differences we already have. It is quite symptomatic that the left side always resorts to a discussion about tax at the top, when what we actually have to do to do with the differences in Norway is to do something with those who have the real challenges — and that is what the government in the government budget will do next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e518	I did not get an answer to my question. My question was very simple: how does the Minister of Finance think that a targeted tax cut for those with the largest equity assets in Norway will affect the distribution in Norway? That's a very simple question. It is also worth remembering that if we ignore the tax cuts that are in the year's budget, the government has already on average taken the money to distribute almost 300,000 kroner each to the 0.02 pst. The wealthiest among us, while we know that wealth inequality is increasing in Norway. Those who are at the top are pulling away, while those who serve at least here in society have had real wage cuts over the last decades. So I repeat my question: does it mean that the richest people in Norway are getting even richer with this tax cut, that the differences are increasing or decreasing?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e525	To say a little more about the tax regime that the government has presented for next year and previous years: it is quite right that it is wrong for this government to reduce the tax on business by reducing corporation tax from 28 p.m. to the proposal on 22 p.m. Next year. It is also quite right that we have reduced the wealth tax through various instruments, now primarily by reducing the tax on working capital, which I feel is a broad consensus in the Stortinge that we should do. On the part of the government, this is about the very basic thing: that the wealth tax is peculiar. This means that Norwegian-owned enterprises have a competitive disadvantage over foreign-owned enterprises. We know that many of these enterprises are the cornerstone companies that provide much to their communities, and perhaps especially in a situation where downtime is experienced. Therefore, the government has wanted to eliminate the discrimination between foreign capital and Norwegian capital, and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e532	There will be follow-up questions – first Kari Elisabeth Kaski.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e537	I think we have to call working capital for what it actually is, and it's big stock assets. It is that the richest in Norway are actually the ones who also own the large wealth of shares. But let me go a little further. A quarter of the tax cuts given to the richest in Norway correspond to the sum proposed by the government to alleviate child poverty in Norway. SV has now proposed, through several alternative budgets, a stepping-up plan to increase child welfare, in order to come to the same level as it would have been if we had adjusted prices since 1996. The SSB shows that, in 2014, the figure is probably higher today, with 18 000 fewer children growing up in poverty in Norway, while the government proposes 181 million. kr to alleviate child poverty. So my question to the Minister of Finance is, how many fewer children will grow up in poverty with the government's proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e544	First of all, the number that Kaski's representative uses is not correct. What we're using together for child poverty measures next year's state budget is almost 1 billion. kr. There is therefore an increase in the government budget for next year, with targeted measures. We can discuss whether increasing child welfare will be targeted. I don't mean that, because increased child welfare will benefit everyone regardless of income. But more targeted measures that take those who really have the real needs, through the grips the government takes, are much more redistributive, and I think it's strange that Kaski, who represents a party like SV, sees the importance of redistributing that way. There is much more targeted use of taxpayers' money. We get significant tax revenue from the groups on which the representative Kaski is now attacking. They pay a lot of taxes into the community that we can use to distribute. And we use them systematically to reduce poverty in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e549	Kari Elisabeth Kaski – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e554	That's 181 million. kr has been obtained from the government's own press release on the state budget day, so they can correct their own figures there. But I find that unfortunately we did not get an answer to how many fewer children will grow up in poverty with the government's government budget. Let me go a little bit further. Another issue that has been very topical in the context of the state budget, and which is probably an example of the government's systematic welfare reform, is the government's so-called efficiency reform, which is actually hidden cheese-related around the public sector, and which we now see – after several years of cutting – has had considerable consequences. The cuts are justified by the fact that public sector efficiency is increasing and therefore their budgets can be cut by 0.5 pst. Every year. But then it is notified back that there are serious consequences for the offers they are making. So my question is, what is the basis for saying that Nav, the tax haven and the hospitals have made it more efficient and more efficient in 2019, so you can cut their budgets?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e563	First of all, they're 181 million. kr to which the representative Kaski refers, the growth from this year to next year. So the stakes on child poverty measures are growing to almost 1 billion. kr. You can't help that. So to the question of red tape and efficiency reduction: we demand all state agencies to annually streamline with 0.5 pst. It is a predictable efficiency criterion that I believe we must have confidence that our state officials are actually able to do in a good way. We've seen that it has a good effect. So we're going to get $1.7 billion. kr through this scheme, which we can apply to good distribution, to measures and instruments that we actually believe are important. I am still happy to see a single alternative proposal from the representative, Kaski or SV, that will draw the corresponding efficiency gain. So we're going to continue to have to streamline the use of money, the taxpayers' money, every year in order to find room for new investments.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e572	Ingrid Hegø – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e577	The government's tax policy has consistently given more in the wallet to people with high wages than to people most. A single calculation problem is at 1 pst. in tax cuts for the one Then I have not deducted any increase in taxes, which cancels out regardless of income. The government says they're building their policy on knowledge. I then wonder what knowledge and evidence are behind the fact that those who think a lot are more motivated by getting more, and that those who feel little are more motivated by getting less.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e585	I don't accept the claim in that question. Firstly, the government has been pursuing fiscal policies in recent years that have benefited all the inhabitants of this country. Thus, an average family with incomes of around NOK 600 000 has received NOK 11 000 in tax reliefs – if the budget we have now submitted is adopted. The tax profile is therefore good, both for personal taxation and for business. Then I have registered that the preliminary comments from the Workers' Party to the next year's government budget are that they are against both reducing company taxes and making changes in personal tax, but at the same time they have signalled several billion dollars in expenditure increases. It is not possible to finance so many billions of dollars in expenditure increases without increasing taxes by the corresponding number of billions of dollars. So I have to say it's going to be exciting to see how the Workers' Party prepares its alternative budget for 2019. They can't get past it with quite significant tax increases, and I think that's a bad answer to the challenges we're facing right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e592	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e597	My question goes to the Minister of Agriculture and Food, and then it is well in place first to welcome the Council of State to its first Question Time as Minister of Agriculture. Governments have taken over an exciting field, where the Storting has clearly signaled great ambitions. In the Agriculture Communication, the majority stated that agricultural policy should facilitate active agriculture throughout the country. The majority concluded that quota regions for milk, cargo regimes and geographically differentiated offers are the main means of ensuring agriculture throughout the country, and that a fine structure of the instruments will continue to be needed in the future. Furthermore, the majority signalled the need for a comprehensive effort of 15 to 30 farms and for farmers to have the same opportunities for income development as others in society. Yes, an overall committee also concluded that ‘the objective of income should be to reduce the income gap between agriculture and other social groups’. Is this ambition the Council of State stands behind? What are the instruments considered by the Council of State to be the most important to achieve the objectives set by the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e608	I would like to thank the representative, Mr Reiten, for welcoming me as the Council of State. There is no doubt that in this government we are very clear and clear that we want to have agriculture all over the country. This also means that in the agricultural agreements we enter into with the organisations, we are making a lot of arrangements to ensure that agriculture is available throughout the country. I now experience an industry that is forward-looking, that really wants something, and that rates. The sharp decline in the number of uses has stopped, and there is a smaller decrease than it was under the red-green. I'm glad. It's a desire to bet on that's huge, it's positive there, there's young people who want to enter the industry, and who want to get even more involved in the industry. It's positive. So it's like many of the leaders that the representative Reiten takes on are also things that are contained in the agricultural agreements, which are agreements that are concluded between the state and the organizations, and that also ensure that you have the opportunity to have different sizes, etc. on the various farms, in the light of the agreements in place and the payment from the State for, for example: having different numbers of animals, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e617	I appreciate hearing that the Council of State says that the government will be forward-looking. It has been, and I think both the people here in the hall and the observers will otherwise think that the Christian People's Party has given very good drag help to get to it. But it is true that the Stortinget has also sent an order to the government for the national stockpiles of cereals. We also expect a forward-looking approach there. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food has a target structure in its part of the State budget, and one of its main objectives is food security and preparedness. In the light of the drought we have left behind, this issue is further updated. The Christian People's Party believes that it is urgent to put this in place, and that it is important that the Storting get this case – which is in order – in the spring of 2019. We believe that it is not enough that the government says that preparedness should be ensured through trade on the world market. Is the Council of State in the course of the follow-up to the order? Can we wait for a matter for Stortinget in spring 2019 for the emergency storage of cereals?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e626	There is no doubt that the Christian People's Party and the government have come up with many good things in agriculture and that have been important. Emergency stores for cereals have been discovered several times in the past, but we are very aware that there is an order from Stortinget. We have said that this will come in 2019, this is being worked on to provide emergency storage for cereals. I would also like to say that at the last meeting of the Nordic Council of Ministers we had a very good dialogue with our Nordic colleagues, who are also concerned about the drought situation and the difficult situation that has been too many – both in Norway and in other Nordic countries – around this with security, preparedness, etc. This is why a sample from the Nordic countries is being set up in the Council of Ministers, where you will also look at how you can secure yourself in the future, how you can make sure that we are well equipped to meet the challenges we see of climate change and that changes are taking place in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e633	There will be follow-up questions – first Steinar Reiten.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e638	I registered that I did not receive a response from the Council of State as to whether we can expect a case on this spring 2019 – at least there is a clear expectation from the opposition. Another thing that is also on order is that the government is now negotiating with agriculture on climate change by 2030. There will certainly be demanding negotiations on ambitious objectives. At that stage, good measures are important to help reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The size has previously stated in a comitology comment by the majority that an agricultural climate fund scheme that provides tax deductions for money set aside for climate action on the farm should be investigated. This year, however, no such arrangement was made in the State budget. Does the Council believe that such a climate fund scheme can act as one of several measures to achieve its objectives, and is that what he wants to include in the negotiations with agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e647	I would like to thank the representative for the recording about this with funds. There's something that's not inside now, but I'm taking the tape with me. But I think this is important, and the government – together with my colleague, Ola Elvestuen – has met with the organisations, where it is suggested that one should be offensive in looking at how one can participate and contribute to reducing emissions also in the agricultural sector. What I think is good is that it is quite unique that the state, together with the organisations, is looking at entering into a binding agreement, looking at how together you can contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. I also think it is important to bear in mind that many of the measures we are looking at are also measures that look at how to reduce animal emissions, for example. There are research programmes on breeding that can also help reduce emissions from cows, bulls, etc., which are very exciting. These are things that can help and contribute, as well as looking at how to reduce in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e654	Nils Kristen Sandtrøen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e659	In Norway, we have some wise and decisive laws that ensure that our natural resources and properties benefit those who have worked to produce food and exploit the resources we have in soil and forest, for the benefit of all of us. Therefore, it is alarming that the administration of the Jeløya Declaration warns that they want to liquidate and liberalise these crucial laws. In the Great Britain of ours, we had an important debate just about the law, a constitutional debate, and the majority of farmers are aware that these laws must be in place to have an agricultural policy all over the country. The drought summer shows that it is essential to strengthen self-sufficiency in Norway, and we in the Workers' Party have presented a separate escalation plan to achieve this. The question is whether the Minister of Agriculture will now move away from the liberalist thinking and rather be involved in strengthening self-sufficiency and security in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e667	I believe that what we have done, and the grips we have taken, have been very good for agriculture. I think it's important to get people who want to bet, who want to be forward-looking, who see the potential and opportunities and want to run agriculture across the country, and who actually also look at the potential to do something in addition to it. We had e.g. The sibling couple who were now allowed to share their farm in Hjartdal – there will be new residents to a municipality many have moved from – which is offensive and sees the potential for traditional agriculture, but also opportunities for travel, local food and other types of production. It is precisely to maintain operations and ensure that it is agricultural throughout the country. I think that's what you have to look at, the positive things there, and that you're forward-looking, bets on those who really want and who will make sure we have an agricultural policy across the country. I have now traveled in large parts of the country and met an incredible number of people in agriculture who are positive, and an agriculture that will be in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e672	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e677	The Minister of Agriculture is very fortunate, because the Swedish Food and Agriculture Committee has set up a guide for the job he is going to do, namely the position of the Food and Agriculture Committee on agricultural policy. This is Norway's agricultural policy. I would like to stress to the Council of State that what is in it has very little to do with the policy of the Progress Party. In that setting, it says that moving food production out of Norway is not a good idea to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. It says that we should work to get rid of per unit produced. My question to the Council of State is: Can the Council of State confirm that it is not appropriate to introduce policies to influence what people put in a shopping basket – whether they want carrots or steaks, people have to choose themselves – and that it is also not appropriate to introduce measures to reduce production in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e684	It is quite funny when the representative from the Central Party is now challenging this with climate and how we are going to meet the challenges. One of his first colleagues from the Central Party was to ask the Council of State what he thought about climate change. So that's how we're much more concerned, much more offensive that we want – no, now it's gone, President. What I should say, disappeared, and I who had it so very clear to me, but that can happen. With regard to the instructions for use that the representative Pollestad was concerned with, I register and am very clear about the things that the Stortinget has said to do, but I also believe that we have actually got something, unlike before, as it was a sharp decline, it was not positive and optimistic. It's now here, and you get things done. You get local food production, you have doubled turnover from 2010 to 2018, and we have an ambition to continue to double it. That's because there's positive out there. You want to use the space that's there, and I'm very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e691	Une Bastholm – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e696	Nothing is more important than food on the table. The Swedish Defence Research Institute has also been very clear that in a situation of food crisis in several countries, Norway cannot at the same time rely on a free food market. It's not going to be a free food market in such a situation. It's going to be a security issue because every country wants to give its own citizens priority if there's a food crisis. It is also important to protect well about the food soil we have, and it is important to have a production of food in Norway that is spread and versatile, which is not too concentrated on few and large uses, which also operates in a way that makes them more vulnerable to varying extreme weather. Now, in addition, we are in a situation where agriculture has not been given the climate fund they need to achieve a more climate-friendly agriculture. But the Minister of Agriculture still has the opportunity to do something about it, and the Minister of Agriculture has the opportunity to ensure more widespread agriculture. Does the Minister see that this is also about food security?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e705	That's exactly what we're seeing now – it's agriculture all over the country. We've never produced more food than what we're doing now. It's become more kale, not less, that someone wanted to make it like that. Side manufacturers have now been given the opportunity to sell directly, which they have fought for for 10–15 years and have not been able to do. It's because you're busy seeing how to stimulate in a positive way to get an activity increase. That's what this government is doing. In terms of climate, I would like to say that I think it is good that we are now getting an agreement with the organisations, that we are negotiating an agreement with the organisations, which looks at forward-looking solutions – where emissions can be cut. Nevertheless, it can be ensured that it is agriculture throughout the country and that it is a good framework for agriculture. That's something I work for as Minister of Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e712	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e717	My question goes to the Minister of Finance and is about the transparency policy of the government. Because it's not just in the case of billionaire cabin loans that the government and its members could have played with more open cards. Transparency about ownership and financial interests is also at stake. To ensure greater transparency, the Stortinget asked the government four years ago to establish a public solution with information about shareholders and a register of real rightholders – that is, both. This is important in order to detect double roles, for example: through economic interests they sit and manage, and politicians who sit and decide and make orders to companies where they may have ownership. And it is generally a wish for Norway that we should prevent corruption. Due to the lack of transparency of the process, it has been difficult to monitor developments in the last four years, but in the State budget of the year, both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries claim that both the United Kingdom’s request decisions have been followed up by the establishment of a rightholder register. There are two problems here. Firstly, the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries has now put on ice working on a more transparent searchable register that can be called a shareholder register – it has been put on ice due to the arrival of a rightholder register. But those registers have different purposes and are different things. Secondly, the government is now proposing a copyright register with a threshold of 25 pst. ownership interest, i.e. that if I don't own more than 25 pst., I don't get into that register. The Press Public Committee believes that this will mean about 90 p.m. of the cases which have so far been identified by small and large double roles, will not be detectable in such a register. In the Stortinget’s request decision, Stortinget says that we believe that this threshold must be set at such a level that Norway can be a leading nation in terms of transparency. The question is how the Council of State believes that we are a nation of progress if we set the threshold of 25 pst. ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e730	Let me first say that I fully agree with the representative of Bastholm that we should strive for the greatest possible degree of transparency. Then it is that part of the questions that the representative is now asking, she must actually address the Minister for Food and Fisheries who is addressing him. What I can say is that we have no plans to change the access to the tax haven's shareholder register, rather on the contrary, we're making it easier for more transparency. However, I would very much like to give a more complementary response to Mr Bastholm's representative on this matter, possibly in cooperation with the Minister for Food and Fisheries, as these are schemes relating to both departments. I would very much like to come back with a more complementary answer, which allows you to clear up the misunderstandings that might be here.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e735	I understand that, and we have that patience. The important thing is that we get in place an openness, as the Storting and the government want. Prop. 109 L for 2017-2018, which is about a rights holder register, is now with the Financial Committee. There we have the opportunity for dialogue, and it is on the Minister of Finance's table. But the process of getting a more open, searchable register of shareholders is stopped because the Ministry of Economic Affairs considers it to be kept in a new register of rights holders, which is going to have a threshold far higher than it is in countries we use to compare with. For example, u-land has thresholds of 3.5 or 10 pst. – whether you have a double role or not is not about how much ownership you have in a company. It can quickly be very small ownership, but it's still a double role as it's of major social interest that journalists get access to, so that those issues come up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e741	The President perceives that this issue is also outside the remit of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e746	I just want to say, as I said instead, that there are no plans to change the access to the shareholder register of the tax haven, nor in the light of the fact that we have proposed legal rules for a register of real rightholders. But once again, there may have been some misunderstandings here. That is why I think it makes sense for us to come back to it through an answer that comes from both the Minister for Industry, the Minister for Fisheries and me.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e753	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e758	My question goes to Minister of Agriculture and Food Bård Hoksrud. It is about the responsibility of the Council of State as a food minister on behalf of all Norwegian consumers, including our elderly people in nursing homes or in nursing homes, who eat the food they receive. In June 2015, one of his predecessors, Sylvi Listhaug, invited all the country's nursing homes to a competition around matted for the elderly. The winner became Døli's nursing home in the workers' party-run Nittedal, where after the election the majority had withdrawn the operation of the kitchen after the Right and Advance Party had put the kitchen out for tender. The municipality deliberately invested in the cooking and meal experience, and they used to have the kitchen in their own house, with a short distance between the kitchen and the dining room, and thus good smell of food and golden meal experiences, as the Minister of Agriculture then described it. State Council Dale later followed up with the same focus on the golden food experience, and the following year it was a municipality with its own kitchen that used to. But in the show window of the Progress Party, the municipality of Us, the new nursing home, Luranetunet, was opened last year, with 60 nursing homes and 37 nursing homes, but without the kitchen. The food comes in plastic containers. What does the Council of State think of such an offer to the elderly in a fragmented new home? Does the Minister of Food think that it provides for golden meals moments and good food smells in what is going to be home to older people?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e769	Now I'm probably going to take care of it here, because some of this is probably within the responsibility of the municipal minister. But there is no doubt that what I want to say, and what the government is actually doing, is that we are now organizing six inspirational seminars where we invite municipalities, health professionals, rapporteurs and others to come to find out the good examples of how to do it around the municipality of Norway. There's no doubt that with the competitions that are organized with Golden Meal Moments, we've actually seen that it's not necessarily those who spend the most money or other types of things that are the ones that get the best result. It's actually about being creative, getting a room for opportunity, and then you see that amazing meal experiences are given to those who live around and get food provided by the municipalities. So I think this is amazing. I am very pleased that the representative is addressing this very thing, because as a food minister – you may still see that I am a little happy with food – it is amazing that you have to make sure that you get good food all around the country. That's why this government has taken this seriously. We have also said – and it is on the Jeløya platform – that there will be a subsidy scheme for the kitchen in a nursing home around. In addition, as I said, we are now organizing six inspirational seminars to which we have invited, and where many have come. Two of them have already been arranged, that's possible the third is today, so here it's huge activity. There's will out there, and I think we should keep motivating. As Minister of Agriculture and Food, I have also made sure that private individuals can be allowed to deliver e.g. fruit and vegetables in nursing homes, in order to obtain local food for the elderly and for those who are supplied with food from an institution. That's great.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e780	I record that the Council of State did not answer my question until he had time left. Both his predecessors have put the golden meal experience on the agenda. They have justified their allocations that there should be good smell, good taste and good experiences, and if it is close between the kitchen, where the food is made, and where the elderly are allowed to eat their food, it is almost Utopia. But in the Utopia of the Progress Party, in the Municipality of Us, they do something quite different. Do I really perceive the Council of State that he has no idea of that – that there are only all the other municipalities where you do well, and perhaps where the Workers' Party also rules, you want to pull out?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e787	The President is well aware that parts of the question may be outside the remit of the Council of State, but leaves it to the Council of State to assess whether he will respond.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e792	I also believe that parts of this do not fall within my responsibility. I just want to say that I see people around the municipality of Norway solve this in different ways, but what is important to me as Minister of Agriculture and Food, and I work with the Minister of Old and Public Health, is to make sure that the food smells good, taste good and look good. There are many ways to do this, so we have these six inspirational seminars, just to put this on the agenda: to give good examples, to bring out the good municipalities – and there may be municipalities of all colors – and to make sure you get good, amazing, great Norwegian food on the tables around. I feel that in many places you are very forward-looking at it, while in other places you can become even more forward-looking. It's the whole purpose of doing this, of making all those who are good visible, and of making visible that it's actually not necessarily those who spend the most money, which is the best. It's like saying that you have consciousness around it, and that food becomes an important part. I think you can do that in good ways, and I feel that around the municipality of Norway. And as I said, now we're going to use the inspirational seminars in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e801	The oral question procedure is now over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e815	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this section. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik to the Minister for Finance, will be raised by the representative Martha Tärud. Questions 6 and 7 from the representatives of Heidi Greni and Bjørn Arild Gram, respectively, to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, will be answered by the Minister for Health, who will address them. Question 15, from the representative of Terje Aasland to the Minister for Industry, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e831	Question I, by Mr Gülsvik to the Minister for Finance, will be raised by the representative Martha Tärud.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e836	‘Treasures in Norway have increased sharply since 2013. At the same time, on 11 October the SSB published figures showing an explosive increase in subsidised foreign online trade. This results in thousands of lost jobs in Norway and billions of lost income for the country – revenues that could be used to reduce taxes on those who act in Norway. While imports below the reporting limit in 2013 were worth more than 5 billion. In 2017, it had increased to over 18 billion. kr. Does the Council of State consider this to be a desirable development?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e843	Nordic trade via the Internet is increasing. It is both a challenge and an opportunity for entrepreneurs to adapt gradually to a new reality. At the same time, this is a benefit for consumers, who get larger choice of goods, often for cheaper money. Simplicity for consumers is the background that consignments of goods with a value of less than DKK 350 sent to recipients in Norway are exempt from VAT and any other charges or customs duties. The amount limit includes freight and insurance costs. The limit was previously NOK 200, without cargo and insurance, and was increased by this government to facilitate the import of such goods by consumers. As goods below the 350-krona limit are not declared and recorded, there are no statistics showing the extent of this trade. As a result, estimates are highly uncertain. In a new note, the Central Statistical Office estimates that goods with a value of less than SEK 350 were traded from foreign online shops for a total of SEK 18.4 billion. kr in 2017. The SSB writes that the figures are filled with considerable uncertainty, but that it can reasonably be seen that this trade has increased considerably in recent years. The uncertainty of the SSB's figures is illustrated by two other reports on the 350-kroner limit that have come this year. The consultancy and analysing company Oslo Economics assumes that Norwegian consumers imported goods in 2017 below the 350-kroner limit for over 2.5 billion. kr. The consulting company Menon Economics estimates the market size of this segment to just over 4.1 billion. kr in 2017. These companies' estimates are significantly below the SSB's 18.4 billion figure. kr. It is not surprising that the volume of cross-border trade has increased since the increase in the amount limit in 2015. Of course, I am also aware that the tax-free limit is a disadvantage for Norwegian operators. However, if the limit is reduced or removed, more consumers than at present will be charged by the carrier. It makes small consignments of goods disproportionately expensive and may hinder many from shopping from foreign online shops. It is a welfare gain for consumers to have goods traded fairly abroad. It is also important for consumers to have access to a wide range of goods worldwide, which may be difficult to obtain in Norway. We must not do such imports for animals and heavy goods. More efficient VAT collection solutions are under way in the EU, and we should see if we can use the solutions there before creating problems for consumers. Finally, I would like to say that, at the beginning of the question, there is a claim that charges in Norway have increased sharply since 2013. I do not agree with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e866	With regard to these fees: In the 2019 budget, the government is reverting to the dramatic increase in the levy on chocolate and sugar products, but why does the government not want, despite emergency calls from Norwegian companies, to reverse the increase in the levy on non-alcoholic beverages?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e871	It is absolutely right that we in the state budget for 2019 propose to reverse the increase in the chocolate and sugar products tax. It was increased by 80pst in the current year in the budgetary agreement, and it is through the increase that we also see the challenges of this levy, which has existed in Norway in – I think it is – 90 years. Several governments have so far viewed this without succeeding in doing anything about it. Now I believe that the time has come to bring down a sample that will go through both the chocolate and sugar confectionery fees and the alcohol-free fee to see if we can improve these, for the sake of the business community, but also for the sake of what is an overall demand from a majority in the UK: to look at nutritional considerations.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e876	Many argue that the government reversed the charge on chocolate and confectionery after pressure from ESA. The finance minister has previously been reluctant to explain the dialogue around this, so I want the Council of State to respond to whether it is true that she had a meeting with the ESA President before or during the summer. And in that case, what was communicated by ESA?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e881	I have not been reluctant to explain the dialogue that has been with ESA, so we are constantly doing to Stortinget regarding both this case and other matters. The government must have dialogue with ESA. We have to answer claims that relate to issues that are being considered. Very familiar, ESA has not opened any case, but there are – as far as I know – two complaints that ESA considers. We have explained our views on it to ESA, and continue to have dialogue with them, naturally enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e889	‘The Council of State states that the infrastructure used to distribute nationwide FM signals belongs to Norkring AS and since the authorities do not dispose of the equipment, they cannot therefore decide whether the equipment should be used to reopen the FM network. In view of the response from the Council of State, does it mean that it is now commercial operators and not the authorities who decide whether the equipment can be used to restore FM, so that emergency messages can be broadcast on the FM band if a need arises?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e902	In my answer to question 2,363 for a written answer to the representative, Sem-Jacobsen, I informed that infrastructure that has previously been used to send nationwide FM signals is mainly owned by Norkring, and that neither broadcasters nor authorities have access to this equipment. I'll elaborate on the written answer a little bit. The normal thing is that a broadcaster, whether DAB, FM or TV signal, buys distribution of a provider of such services for a certain period of time. It's very unusual for broadcasters to plan, build or own a broadcasting network. This was also the case with the FM network. Broadcasters pay an annual rental for the use of the equipment owned by Norkring and which will be used for the distribution of FM signals. Thus, the authorities do not own the equipment and therefore cannot decide what to use the equipment for. It is the authorities that determine the frequency at which the frequency can be used if a broadcaster is to be granted a concession and the frequency authorisation is to be sent nationally on the FM network. So that broadcaster is probably going to put the distribution of such signals on the market. Providers of such signals will then plan the network on the basis of the requirements imposed by the broadcaster and offer the distribution at a given rental cost. The broadcaster will primarily be concerned with the price and the fulfilment of the network requirements, including: with a certain coverage, uptime and quality. The authorities – and in its extension: the broadcasters – will be less concerned about whether the infrastructure and equipment are made up of new equipment, the transmission signals used, or whether old equipment is reused if the network meets the essential requirements. In theory, it will be possible to instruct the NRK to order a nationwide new FM network to send only P1. I think that would be a very bad solution. A new FM network will be added to today's core network. Both Norwegian topography and housing patterns mean that there will be very poor use of society's resources if we stay in Norway with two parallel radio networks. In addition, a reconstruction of the FM network will receive listeners. Most radios are now on DAB, and they're going to stay there because the offer is better. I want to add that yesterday at the latest in a meeting I had with the radio industry, the National Communications Authority confirmed that the DAB network has at least as good coverage as the FM network and less problematic outcomes. In addition, reintroducing FM will weaken preparedness. DAB is a technically more robust technology than FM. It was confirmed by the DSB in the 2016 report, indicating in particular that the FM network is fed via several main transmitters. So DAB is less vulnerable and more accessible in several areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e919	I thank you for the answer, but we are now talking about a situation not even one year after we shut down the FM network. The decision has been taken by the Government to follow closely the closure of the FM network and to ensure on an ongoing basis that the preparedness is not affected. I think it is worrying that for one year after shutting down the FM network nationally, that is, the band on which all other countries use to send emergency messages, Norway is actually in a situation where we cannot decide for ourselves and not reach the maximum number of visitors and residents. So it's because the infrastructure, and then the authority, is left to a commercial operator like Norkring, who makes money on DAB expansion, and apparently is doing well to build up the FM network, which should be clear if it turns out that the closure did not work well. Is this lucky? Is the minister serious? I also wonder what kind of attitude the government really has on the preparedness aspect of the transition to DAB.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e928	It has always been the way I explained, in the distribution of responsibilities between the different providers in this market. It has not been a state task to build that type of infrastructure. We have clearly achieved this through a market in all the years we have had that system. We follow the preparedness very closely. And as I tried to say, that's actually how the coverage is now better than it was with FM. The security is better than it was with the FM because – which I couldn't complete the full reasoning on – the FM system is about the main transmitters that send on to smaller transmitters. That means that when the main transmitters cancel out, this is all in that chain out. In DAB, everything is sent to each sender. That means that if one sends this out, it's just the transmitter that's going to cancel out. That means that the consequences of an outcome will be much less dramatic. And yesterday we got numbers that show that the coverage is now higher with DAB than it was with FM.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e935	In our car park, there's still only half that has DAB. It's saying that we don't reach the same number of situations now. I think we have a challenge with the government's attitude to preparedness. We see it when it comes to the police, the Home Guard is weakening, and now you're going to go around the ambulance emergency room. I don't have to make up for the criticism of the Riksrevision. It turns out that in the first six months of this year Norway has been completely without a signed preparedness agreement between the NRK and the Local Radio Federation ensuring that P1 emergency messages are transmitted on the local radio. This agreement has been so important for all years that it was signed by the government until the end of the year, but the year in which we need to send the emergency messages to P1 on the local radio, it went half a year before the government even bothered to respond to whether we should be on the contract. Is it appropriate for Norway to be completely out of a contingency agreement between the NRK and the Local Radio Association before the summer?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e944	Every path that had FM coverage, now has DAB. Every tunnel that had FM coverage now has DAB. It shows all the measurements. We have implemented measures that now have greater radio coverage than we had with the FM system. We're as well on our way up to the hundred as possible. This change has gone much better than many have claimed it would go. Building up a new FM system in Norway now and rolling out FM in all tunnels and along all roads because you're going to send P1 – when we know that we've now built up a system that allows us to send a lot of channels in all the areas that it's talking about, and when we see that P1 also weakens market power – and believe that it's going to increase preparedness, I think there's a lot of questions to ask. It's at least a huge resource usage to expand because people are going to have P1 on FM in tunnels while they have DAB.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e954	‘Annually, large resources are used to carry out national tests. In her doctoral thesis, Ann Elisabeth Gunnulfsen, who recently discussed at the University of Oslo, has studied how schools and teachers use the results on national tests to improve students' learning. The conclusion is that the pedagogical value of the national samples is absent. Does the Council of State consider that the costs and time spent on national tests are consistent with the objective and the actual value of learning by pupils?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e961	Each harvest, all 5th, 8th and 9th-stage students carry out national reading, billing and English tests. The purpose of the national tests is to provide information on the skills of the students. This information is used by schools, municipalities and national authorities to develop schools and teachers in order to provide better training for students. The study to which the representative refers is based on findings in one municipality. We know from other studies that there are considerable differences between schools and between municipalities in how the tests are used. Active school owners who have good cooperation between teachers and school leaders on the educational use of the tests benefit most from the tests. We also know that school leaders have been more satisfied with the tests than the teachers. That's why we've done a lot in recent years to develop the tests to make them a better tool for teachers and to provide more information that can be used in the in-flight assessment of students. Support and guidance materials have also been developed to help schools and school owners use the tests in a way that enhances their usefulness. I believe that an important result of national tests is that they have given us a good basis for discussing quality at different levels of the school system. For national authorities, for example, samples are given: information on which municipalities are unable to deliver the results of the students over time. This information can be used to assist municipalities that need extra help, and to ensure that students across the country meet with a good school. Similarly, teachers also use national test results to follow-up students who need additional help and support to develop their reading or accounting skills. The tests thus function as a tool to help the students who are struggling. This will include, inter alia: in the course of the investigation, the representative referred to. That being said, of course, it is not such that national tests or other tests can replace the teacher’s professional judgement. Samples only get a value when they are used wisely. The national tests also provide a limited picture of the skills and competences of the students. Therefore, results must always be seen in conjunction with other relevant information on students, schools and municipalities. It is good that we have a debate about the tests and what they are used for. I think we all agree that the school needs to evolve on the basis of knowledge of what works and where we have challenges. National tests are an important part of this knowledge base and it is not appropriate to remove the tests. Nevertheless, we have to constantly develop the tests so that they become better tools and provide the information we need. It is also important that we continue to work to strengthen the teacher's, school's and municipality's competence in using and following up the tests for the best interests of students' learning.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e976	Of course, one should be careful to overinterpret from one thesis. This is not isolated and is also confirmed by other studies. In 2013, there was a report that the researchers evaluated national samples as a system. As the council pointed out, school owners and school leaders benefited from the tests, but not the teachers in their work or the students in their motivation. Setting aside enough time for the follow-up of the students and guidance materials was also a problem. Again, the conclusion was that the pedagogical value of the samples was close to zero and in no way related to the resource use to carry them out. Very many teachers express that the results of the national tests confirm what they already know about the results of the students. Why then should all schools, students and teachers be required to spend so much time when the school authorities can get the same information by conducting the tests as sample samples and letting the vast majority of teachers and students concentrate on the teaching, as we know, have an effect?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e981	I put a big question mark on the representative's claim that one spends so much time. The national samples are in the 5th, 8th and 9th stages. In total, students spend 15 hours on the national tests throughout the compulsory schooling. 15 hours in ten years isn't very much time. The representative then refers to a 2013 survey. Well, the Education Directorate has a 2017 survey, i.e. a much newer one. There was a user survey of both the national samples and the screening tests. They received, among other things: feedback on how tests could become better tools for teachers and school leaders. This knowledge base is now being used to further develop the tests. It is totally inappropriate for our government to remove the national samples. It is an important tool for teachers, it is an important tool in school development, and it is an important tool for looking at the quality of school as national authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e990	We still have to recognise that time is a challenge. This is also highlighted in recent reports. 15 hours in 10 years, of course one sample can last up to 90 minutes, is not the problem itself. But in addition to this test, students and teachers spend a lot of time preparing. In the best sense, the students practice old national tests, and teachers like to teach as likely to get on the tests. Findings show that the students who work the most are those who get the most reduced motivation with the national tests. An anonymous teacher wrote a letter from Gudbrandsdøren Dagningen in ours that getting time to go to is the problem and the challenge that makes teachers most consider quitting. Is it then the national tests and rankings that are the target? Or is it that the everyday life of the teachers is to be feasible, so that the students receive adapted instruction according to their needs?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e995	The aim is for all pupils to receive better schooling and more adapted training. I'm worried that there's still students from primary school without being able to read, write and calculate properly. Therefore screening tests are important and therefore national tests are important. And then my point is not that the national tests are perfect as they are now, or that they are used perfectly. My introduction to this is that we need to develop the tests so that it becomes an even better tool, and it also shows the 2017 user survey, which is the latest we have. Then it's also my opinion that these tools are most important to those students who have the greatest challenges. Because if we're going to catch students who are struggling to read, write and calculate, we need screening tests. If teachers are to have tools to provide pupils with customised education, they also need to know more about the students. A lot of time is spent in school on a lot of different things. We're now busy cleaning up the curricula, so there's more room for the teachers to be teachers, and 15 hours in ten years isn't much time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1007	‘The merger agreement for East-Agder and West-Agder states that it will ‘build Arendal as the main seat of regional state, with as many state activities and measures as possible in Arendal/Agder’. Now it turns out that two of the main state agencies in this part of the agreement, Nav and the State Road Administration, do not seem to provide the jobs proposed by Arendal/Aust-Agder. What will the government do to follow up that part of the merger agreement that concerns State employment?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1014	The merged counties have been involved in the distribution of jobs in the new county, and it has been important in the consensual agreements between the county municipalities. In addition to the distribution of the new counties' jobs, in its Memorandum of Understanding, Agder has wanted to provide leadership for the localisation of state jobs in the new county. Part of the question from the representative, Mørland, I have answered earlier. The Minister of Labour and Social Affairs has also done so. My predecessor, Jan Tore Sanner, answered a similar question in his time. He then replied that the government would add the entire county office to Arendal, which we also do. With regard to the organisation of Nav in Agder, I replied this summer that it is the labour and welfare director who has the authority to determine the organisation of the work and welfare movement. According to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, a new regional structure for Nav has been adopted and the agency has decided to add the Auxiliary Centre to Lillesand and the Kristiansand Contact Centre. The decision that the Regional Agency for Agder should be located in Arendal remains firm. In the case of the State Road Administration, I refer to the agreement between the government parties and the Christian People's Party on the transfer of co-road administration to the county municipalities. This is a task which has been important for the county councils themselves to be transferred and which will lead to a strengthening of the county councils in terms of both resources and competence. The distribution of new tasks by county councils is up to the county councils themselves to assess. In two days' time, on 19 October, the government will present a major communication on new tasks and instruments that will make county municipalities stronger regional community developers. The fact that the county itself has a responsibility for the location of new jobs, both to ensure effective organisation and to strengthen regional labour markets, I believe is an important part of the social development role of county communities. Finally, I would like to remind you that the government also has an explicit localisation policy set out in the Guidelines for the location of state workplaces and government service production. The aim of these guidelines is to promote a good regional distribution of State jobs in order to strengthen labour markets in all parts of the country. As a general rule, new and relocated establishments are to be located outside Oslo, and we have also implemented a plan for the relocation of state jobs from Oslo. A total of about 800 jobs have been created or moved out of Oslo so far. That work shall continue. The said consensus between the government parties and the Christian People's Party will also contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1029	The regional reform has become a rather demanding exercise for this government. If you look at Finnmark and Troms, it's almost an unmanageable situation for the minister. The fold has also become a very demanding project. In terms of the starting point that Agder has, it's actually significantly better. One should take into account that there has been considerable resistance in East Agder, but the process there has come relatively far, and one has locally tried to find solutions. Then my expectation had been that the Council of State would also contribute to the best possible operation of this process. We know that there are particularly significant living conditions challenges in the east of Agder, and when there is a regional consensus saying – and it is the Council of State's own party traps locally, among other things, that have gone for it – that state jobs now located in both counties are being moved to Arendal/Aust-Agder, I would think it had a bearing on the policies of the Council of State in this area. I don't see any signals around here. Is it such that the Council of State does not stand behind the work of her own politicians locally in Agder?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1036	Yes, I know, as the representative probably understands in my dialect, well to the challenges in Agder and well to the resistance. It is true that there is a great deal of resistance to regional reform, and therefore there is no government to implement it, although it has been thought necessary and correct. Of course, I am behind the local consensus. We're trying to follow it up as best we can. I have now also explained how Nav has made his assessments. Then we have a decision-making line here that makes some decisions it's the head of the business that makes. We must respect that, too, and it cannot be overruled locally. But we're going to do what we can to move out state jobs and move out state decisions – that's what we think is going to be good – as opposed to what the red-green government is doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1043	It's very disappointing to me that the Council of State is pushing this whole process over what you're doing elsewhere. When the Council of State Hauglie answers that she relates to the fact that it is within the authority of the Director of Labour and Welfare to determine the location of the Nav Kontaktsenter in Agder, I think this is an opportunity for the government to enter and contribute positively, in line with local wishes. But you don't want to do that. It signals to me little willingness to give a local drag help in this process, unfortunately. My question to the Council of State is: Has the Council of State ever tried to communicate what is around state jobs in the voluntary merger agreement between the two counties? If the Council of State has done so, how has it been communicated to the social actions, to Nav, to the health sector, and to other sectors that could have contributed positively to this work?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1050	It is true that if the representative is surprised that we have not turned down decision-making structures in the state, that is not what is meant by this reform. The intention is to move decisions out of the state, from the ministry and over to the county municipalities. Then it is not that this reform has been implemented. We're in the middle of a situation, and we're going to deliver an assignment on Friday. We're going to encourage you to look to local authorities. Local authorities are the ones to decide how to set up themselves. This means, for example: in the case of joint road management, it will be up to the local authorities of Agder, in Trondelag, in the Inland to decide how to organise this. We're not going to sit in an office in Oslo and do that. They shall do so where the tasks are to be carried out and where they have the best knowledge of how to locate them.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1058	‘The Government proposes once again to reduce the resources of the counties for regional development. Compared to the funds proposed to be allocated above entry 60 in 2016, regional development funds have now been reduced by a total of 342 million. kr and is too many counties in practice zeroed out. How does the Council of State feel about this with the regional reform and the adopted objective of enabling the new states to strengthen social development?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1065	I thank you for the question. It is true that, with the regional reform, we want to strengthen the ability of the county councils to influence the development of their own county. We believe it is important to meet key societal challenges today and in the future. The community is in transition, and we're going to carry out the green shift. Research, development and innovation are necessary in order to succeed, while at the same time creating new jobs. Regional development continues in a number of areas of intervention. We have chosen more accurate measures that take industries across the country, with a historical commitment to transport. In addition, we have also invested in business-oriented schemes in Siva, Innovation Norway and the Research Council. We focus on growth-promoting tax relief, good health care, education, research and innovation, which are important for achieving good regional development and balance. In two days’ time, the government will present the notification of new tasks and responsibilities to the county councils as part of the regional reform. The government parties and the Christian People's Party have reached agreement on the task assignment as part of the reform. This includes a number of new tasks in sectoral areas which are key to regional development. These are tasks that will strengthen county councils as regional community developers. It is also a consequence of the consensus that resources should be included in the tasks of transfer. The way in which the financial framework for county municipalities is derived from the implementation of the regional reform in 2020 is not yet clear. I believe that we must now focus on the whole of this reform. Social developments in each country depend on efforts and priorities in far more tasks than those covered by the earmarked regional development funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1078	There was a hearing in the nutrition committee yesterday. The majority of them were concerned about just regional development funds — even though they were in the wrong committee, to put it that way. It shows that these funds are considered essential for business and industrial development. The industry is hopefully becoming a central part of the new tasks of the new states. Does the council understand that when you cut food into food, it's like cutting the kneecaps of someone who's about to jump?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1083	No, I don't know that description at all. I understand that you are concerned about the funds. That doesn't mean that that's the best way to use the money. I want to point out what has happened in Norway, especially in the districts, over the last few years. We've been through a huge transformation. We got an oil shock, which led to unemployment, which led to the closure of businesses, which led to enormous demands for conversion, innovation and innovation. And it's going to be fine. Despite the cuts that have been made in this one area, it's fine. It is because there are other measures that work better, and that is the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1090	There is reason to recall what these means are used for. These means are e.g. a central part of the ownership of the states and partnerships to apply for funding for Horizon 2020 and other EU programmes on which the government is highly committed. These funds contribute to triggering other funds, so that one penny becomes a four. That's why it's very stupid to cut them. In addition, it contributes to the ability of regions and regions to bring together businesses, to bring together municipalities, to bring together the tools around them to mobilise for new growth. So when you reduce the ability to mobilize, you also reduce the growth in the counties.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1095	I disagree. If you look around, you'll be fine in the counties. Unemployment is low. So you're screaming for skills, and then that's what we have to invest in -- new skills. We're going through a green shift. We're going through demanding conversions. We're going to facilitate job creation across the country. I believe that there are other instruments that are more accurate. Although I fully recognise that many states have used these funds in a good way, we believe – in a tough priority – that other instruments are more important.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1103	This question, from the representative of Heidi Greni to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, will be answered by the Minister for Health and Health as appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1108	‘District emergency services are so heavily built that the local fire service is more and more in place first and must provide services to the ambulance and police. This requires competence that the fire service does not have, it poses challenges in the recruitment of the voluntary fire service, and it imposes additional costs on the municipalities. Is the Council of State comfortable with this development and the challenges it poses for municipalities where police and ambulance preparedness is being reduced?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1115	The government’s objective is to ensure a coherent system of emergency services both inside and outside hospitals, providing adequate security and quality throughout the country. Norway has one of the world’s best-developed and competent emergency services outside the hospital, consisting of municipal medical services, medical care centres, emergency medical number 113 and a well-developed ambulance service. And we're going to have that in the future. This is supported in NOU 2015: 17, First and foremost, which is a comprehensive investigation into the emergency medical services outside hospitals. The investigation points out that Norway is a challenging country to provide emergency medical services, but that, compared to other countries, we have a decentralised ambulance structure with a well-developed ambulance service. In some places it is necessary to make changes to the ambulance structure, but I do not agree with Greni's presentation of a strong reduction in emergency medical preparedness in the districts. The Health Regions and Municipalities may, under the Emergency Medical Ordinance, conclude agreements for the assistance of emergency workers as part of the emergency medical emergency response. Such emergency workers may be members of non-governmental organisations or local fire services. I'm aware that emergency medical assistance is one of the areas that are increasing most in the field of call-out for fire and rescue services. The Emergency Committee therefore pointed out the need to clarify which tasks emergency relief workers should undertake and proposed a review of the emergency relief function. The Health Directorate is now working on guidelines for the precisely emergency relief function, in cooperation with the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness. The guidelines are not completed, but there are some underlying relationships, such as:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t Emergency workers shall support the public’s efforts, which first aid staff until the first health resource is available and can take over the treatment. The emergency aid function shall be limited to the response in time-critical emergency medical conditions outside hospitals where active first aid efforts from qualified emergency aid may have an impact on the outcome. The emergency aid scheme shall provide a supplement rather than an alternative to the normal emergency medical emergency response with ambulance and medical care. The Emergency Aid Facility shall be based on the mobilisation of existing resources. We have a good emergency medical response in the districts. A sustainable health service also requires that we use the local preparedness that is in the municipalities. However, there is a need to clarify which emergency medical assistance the fire service can provide. The Health Directorate's guidelines will contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1143	I thank you for your answer. I expect the Council of State has also followed up on all the newspaper reports that have been in the last time on response time. In my area there is at least none of the municipalities where the response time is met. There was an overview of the entire Trøndelag, and there were hardly enough municipalities throughout the Trøndelag where the response time was met. There is a rather severe reduction in the number of ambulances, and that means, of course, that the response time is increasing. It's a fact -- I hope the Council of State agrees with me -- that the firemen have taken over many of the tasks both from the ambulances and from the police in recent years. In some municipalities, over 50 pst. of the missions not related to fire. It is commendable that the firemen are being schooled in emergency aid. They're getting good at heart initiators and free airways, but they're not medical personnel. This is a false security. Is the Council afraid that we will now receive a two-part health and rescue offer, depending on how far away the ambulance station from the individual living?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1152	The public investigation into emergency medical preparedness outside hospitals also addresses this issue. They assessed the question of response time, whether it should be a statutory or regulatory requirement, or whether it should be a quality objective for the service. The committee recommended the latter, and I have followed that up as Minister of Health and introduced it as a quality goal. Now there are challenges to reporting on this, and therefore the figures that the representative referred to, as there have been some local comments, figures that the Norwegian patient register is very clear that are not complete numbers. This is something that works to ensure quality and to get better numbers in this area. So I think it's important – and that's something that's left in the work of the Emergency Committee – that you look at the total resources in this area. It is not a defeat for a municipality to have good local emergency workers who can assist in this kind of situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1161	The threshold for entering the voluntary fire services around has become much higher. The feedback from the municipalities is that the major recruitment problems are due to the fact that the fire service has been given other tasks. They would like to train and participate in a voluntary fire service and extinguish fire. They will not be responsible for the health care, will not be responsible for the use of cardiac starters, will not be responsible for the medical care when they arrive at a site of injury, for example. after a traffic accident. It is also said that the damage management job is weakened because they get all the other problems as well. At the same time, we know that the municipalities get these costs without it being compensated, so many of the government tasks have been transferred to the municipalities without it being compensated. What is the response of the Council of State to the municipalities that have to take these costs on their own coat, which have to take down other services, and which are struggling with recruitment precisely because the voluntary fire service is required to provide health care?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1168	Let me stress that the emergency aid system is going to be a supplement and not an alternative to the emergency medical response. Municipalities have a regulatory requirement to have emergency medical preparedness. One must not give the impression that emergency medical preparedness is the responsibility of the state and health regions alone. The way the municipalities organise it will be different. I experience, for example: that some municipalities, such as the municipality of Bjerkreim in my own country, have an emergency aid scheme that is organised through those who work in hospital homes and in the home service. There, the new task has led to better recruitment and more stable staffing, precisely because those who work in the service experience this as a meaningful but also important additional task that contributes to recruitment. So the picture is probably not as black and white as the representative expresses.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1176	This question, from the representative of Bjørn Arild Gram to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, will be answered by the Minister for Health as the appropriate representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1181	«Member States are responsible for the availability of emergency medical care throughout the country. Røhrvik is an example that emergency solutions with an enhanced fire service and a community health service with enhanced competence and equipment ensure preparedness. This increases the local authority's costs. Do the Council of State agree that municipalities in district areas should not be charged additional costs as a result of adapted preparedness solutions, and how does the Council of State consider that the State can contribute to the development of financing models that compensate these municipalities?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1188	Let me clarify: both the municipalities and the state health regions are responsible for emergency medical preparedness. The Acute Medicine Regulation regulates the emergency medical services of municipalities and health regions outside hospitals. These services include municipal medical services, ambulance services, emergency medical services and services provided by others, in agreement with either the municipality or the health region. The regulation states that municipalities and health regions may agree on assistance from emergency workers as part of emergency medical preparedness. Emergency workers may be members of non-governmental organisations or municipal fire services. The type of assistance may be in addition to, or pending, the provision of emergency medical assistance by personnel from the other emergency medical services. Of course, persons who are required to provide the type of assistance must have received the necessary training. As the representative of Gram points out, a partnership model is being tested to strengthen emergency medical preparedness in the municipality of Røyrvik, which includes: involve the fire department. The project shall contribute to the ability of the services involved to handle acutely ill and injured patients pending other public health resources. The project is limited to the response to time-critical emergency medical conditions. Health Nord-Trøndelag finances the purchase, licensing and training of emergency networks and other necessary equipment, and they contribute to the provision of additional competence to nurses in the municipality so that they can be part of the call-out team. The Norwegian Air Ambulance Foundation provides first aid courses for emergency workers, i.e. community nurses and fire service staff. An agreement between the municipality of Røyrvik, Brannvesenet Mid-IKS, Norsk Luftambulanse Foundation and Health Nord-Trøndelag HF describes the responsibilities and obligations of the parties involved. The partnership model for an enhanced emergency medical response in Røyrvik is interesting, and, as far as I understand, follow-up research is to be carried out, which will provide more knowledge of the effect. A sustainable health service requires that we also use the local preparedness that is in the municipality – as one does in Røyrvik. If the fire and rescue service is used as an emergency aid, agreements should be concluded describing responsibilities and obligations. More generally, there is a need to clarify which emergency medical assistance the fire service can provide. That is why the Health Directorate is now working on guidelines that will clarify this.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1201	We agree that the attempt that is now being made in the municipality of Røirvik has a very positive impact. In this case, the normal ambulance station is closed. There was no basis for maintaining it, and then, in a partnership, as the Council of State says, one went into action to find alternative solutions. That's very good, and maybe we need more of that in specific areas. However, in this case — despite the fact that training costs are paid and different — there will then be a situation in which the municipality has significant additional costs related to the additional security provided by such a scheme, in view of those who work in the primary health service. My question was whether the Council of State agrees that the kind of costs should not be passed on to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1208	I think this is a relationship that a best one finds out locally, that one of the partnerships that one forms together agrees on the cost allocation. But then it is important that one does not – as I was told – create the impression that the municipalities do not have a statutory responsibility in this area. They have. But there's a lot of local freedom about how you take this responsibility. I also believe that many municipalities will experience that when you go into these kinds of solutions, it will also be seen as positive for the employees who work in the service. It can be recruitment and stabilising in terms of manning, as we are. has experience with the municipality of Bjerkreim, which also means that the municipality both ensures better quality for its inhabitants and saves money on e.g. repeated recruitment campaigns and temporary workers’ solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1215	Yes, both the municipalities and the state have a responsibility for preparedness and emergency medical preparedness. But my question is about the state part of that responsibility, namely that there have been other solutions here because the ambulance station has not been continued. Of course, then a proactive rapporteur in good dialogue with health businesses and fire services has tried to find a model that allows a satisfactory level of preparedness to be maintained. During the project period, the municipality’s additional costs related to increased standby in the primary health service are financed by grants from the State of Kylkänsen, but once the project period is over, this should probably be continued. Then I just have to repeat my question: does the Council of State think it is right that there is a cost review from state to municipality because the state has not managed to maintain the ambulance offer and we need to find other solutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1222	As I said, I believe that the shared responsibility of these partnerships finds a best solution at local level. I also think it is positive that the County is contributing state funds to such a project, but Health Nord-Trøndelag's possible co-financing in a permanent solution must be found out locally. It is not the case that the responsibility of Health Nord-Trøndelag for emergency medical emergency services outside the hospital through ambulance services has been reduced as a result of a change in structure. It is such that, of course, when discussing changes in structure, municipalities should be involved and be part of this. But that kind of question finds the best out locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1232	«The NRC had a report on 4 October that advisory doctors in insurance companies may over-examine statements by other doctors and specialists. The supervision of an advisory doctor in an insurance company is waived because the work is defined as an internal organisational advice. This is how this doctor protects against criticism from supervisory authorities, and statements from advisory doctors are not defined under the Health Care Act. What will the Council of State do to ensure independent experts in such insurance matters?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1239	In principle, organisational in-house health professional advice falls within the scope of proceedings outside the scope of the Health Personnel Act. Examples may include evaluations and advice from healthcare professionals working in Nav, Norwegian patient damages or insurance companies. Such assessments are not considered health care under the Health Care Act and are often one of several decision-making bases in the proceedings. It is the activities which must take responsibility for the fact that its decisions are based on a professional basis. Decisions may be reviewed by the Board of Appeal and the Court of Justice. However, the legal status is somewhat unclear as to what falls within the scope of the Health Personnel Act. This applies in particular to actions that are not considered to be health care under the law. As a general rule, such activities are not subject to prudential supervision, as the scope of the Health Care Act covers healthcare professionals and healthcare providers. On the other hand, Section 56 of the Health Care Act opens up the possibility for the State Health Care Authority to provide warnings to health professionals who have also demonstrated ‘behaviour that is suitable for significantly impairing the confidence of the profession concerned’. I agree with Mr Toppe that expert advisers should be independent. It may be claimed that the use of the Board of Appeal and the Court of Justice to review the decisions of insurance undertakings is sufficient to ensure the independence and quality of health assessments. On the other hand, decisions based on false assessments can have a major impact on the subject. As you know, the government is now following the decision of the Storting. 839 of 5 June 2018, where Stortinget among others requests that the regulation of the supply and use of cosmetic injections be reviewed. Now the representative is probably asking Toppe what it has to do with the matter, but it is simply so that in the follow-up to this decision the government will among other things. assess the scope of the Health Care Act for cosmetic injections and treatments that are not considered to be health care under the Health Care Act. In this context, as a follow-up to this question, I will ensure that the aspects of in-house health advice are also assessed. It should be assessed whether it is appropriate that such advice is subject to supervision or not and whether the scope of the Health Care Professional Act should be clarified in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1250	I was rarely happy with an answer in a Question Time, because here I perceive that the Minister of Health is at the ball and I mean the same thing as I do, who has a great deal of concern for this. That's very good. If I can come up with a follow-up question: Now a review of the advisory bodies should still come under health professionals' laws. But there's also a point in these cases that one has an advisory doctor who will review the assessment of a specialist, who will review the assessment of a seafarer's doctor, if it's a North Sea certificate. How, at all, can there be a system in which public health specialists can be overestimated when talking about the health status of a patient?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1257	In this type of case, this is an assessment made by the insurance company. So what we experience as today's legal state is that it's the insurance company's assessment. It is they who then have to be responsible for the assessment. Any assessment of the assessment made by the insurance company against the evaluation of the specialist health service must take place, for example: in legal proceedings. That's the situation today. I believe – in line with the representative Toppe – that there is a basis for looking at whether or not the health assessment, which is initially carried out by health professionals in such a case, should be covered by the law or not, and therefore also by supervision, in order to control this. But there's some of that that we'll come back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1264	Then I understand the Council of State that if one is given an assessment that advisory bodies come under the supervision of health professionals, they must at least be responsible for reviewing what other specialists have said about the health of the same patient. Is that correctly understood? Is it that way that the Council of State thinks that one can be corrected throughout this problem with advisory games, which have great consequences for patients, without even meeting them?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1269	Yes, what would then be a consequence, if it were to be the conclusion, is that the health evaluation carried out by the clinician could then be subject to supervision and should be subject to an assessment of safety. Then one will look at, for example. the work done to reach the medical professional advice and the adequacy of its work. I believe that is also the intention of the representative Toppe.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1277	‘In the offer offered by the Hospital Purchase HF to the boat ambulance in West Finland, they have no requirements for the strength of the vessel other than the minimum of 1G. A boat built to 1G has nothing to do with storms on the Löpparet. Nor is there any age requirement for vessels. So you can submit tenders with a vessel from the 80s, as long as it can handle 25 knots in 0.75 meters of waves. Such vessels may be suitable for Mjösa, but not for the Lopian Sea. Will the Council of State intervene and stop this unprofessional tender?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1284	There has been a great deal of interest in the purchase of boat ambulance services by the Finnish Health Agency in West Finland – both related to any business transfer requirements and to what requirements have been set for boat and safety. I understand very well that the people of Finnmark are engaged in these kinds of issues, and I also perceive that the Finnish health centre is dedicated to providing a healthy health service to the population. It is also their health professionals who are supposed to be on board and follow these boats. With regard to the specific requirements for the boat, I would like to mention the following: the Maritime Directorate has provided that the relevant coastal area where this ambulance is intended to operate is to be considered as ‘Shipping Area 4’. This is a relatively tough category which means that the vessel ‘does not pass a distance of more than 25 nautical miles without protection from waves and wind from the open sea’. On the basis of this, the Finnish Health Service shall require the certification of seafaring area 4. This requirement applies both to vessels and to crew. In order to obtain a certificate for service area 4, the ship and its crew must meet the requirements of the maritime authorities for the design, equipment, manning and operation. These are requirements which are managed by the maritime authorities and which must be complied with before a certificate is issued. Therefore, these requirements are not mentioned in the requirement specification of the Finnish Health Hospital. The requirement for 25 knots at a wave height of up to 75 cm is not a requirement for the vessel as such, but a requirement for cruising at specified premises. The requirement does not state how high the vessel will have to withstand in order to operate in the waters in question, but at higher wave heights the speed will necessarily have to be reduced, inter alia. in the interests of the patient. Requirements for the ship related to higher wave heights result from the requirements underpinning certification for the waters in question, to which we have been subjected. There is also a concern that the tender could end up with an old boat. Here, however, there are some requirements other than speed and wave height that affect the outcome, among other things. quality and operational safety requirements. This is the subject of competition. Newer boats will obviously cut the best in such a context. In addition, today's environmental requirements for engines and power plants have been taken into account, which should also indicate that only modern boats will be involved in such an acquisition.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1299	Thanks for the answer – there were a few things that I expect me to get an answer to, as the Council of State gave it. But nevertheless, there were some shortcomings. With regard to this with capacity on board diesel, it was a bit strange that you should be able to go from Havøysund to Rørvik, to take an example. It's completely unnecessary in such a context like this. The sea is perhaps one of the toughest oceans in Norway, and perhaps also on this side of Europe. And when airports and roads are closed, it's this boat that's the umbilical cord if you're going to be able to get to the hospital. Therefore, there must be top quality both on the boat and on the crew. They have to know the sea, they have to know that when there's bad weather, the current might go one way and the wind might go the other way. Then it's completely extreme, what's happening. Why are such facts not taken into account in the tendering process?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1308	I have to admit that my competence related to diesel capacity on board a boat is quite limited. Although I have gone a lot by boat in the Ryfylkebassen, there are completely different sea conditions. What is clear to me is that it is clearly supposed to be such that the requirements and the outcome of that tendering process are to provide a boat ambulance service of at least as good quality as today’s. I also perceive that there is something that the board in the Finnish Hospital is also concerned about, and I know that they will also go through this matter. But my clear message here is that the result that will come out of the tender will mean at least as good quality on both boat and crew as it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1315	That's really what was my last question, and that's what the Council of State has answered. He has said that we should get at least as good boat ambulances in the area as what we have today. Then I'm happy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1320	Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1329	«For five years in a row, the government cuts in the support for dental treatment, and with that, the total cuts come to NOK 380 million. The government further warns that it is still relevant to cut the support for dental regulation for those with a ‘clear need’. At the same time, the government in its political platform says that it will ‘further develop dental care and gradually extend the protection systems’. How does this relate?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1336	Since 2013, the government has further developed dental care and gradually extended the protection systems with a total of approximately 190 million. kr. This is sustainable while there are down-adjustments in the rates of social security for dental treatment. I'll come back to this. In 2014, a new social welfare scheme was introduced for persons who are toothless in the lower jaw. In 2014, 62 million were paid. kr in social benefits for these persons. The amount increased to 72 million. kr in 2015. In addition, we increased the tariffs by about 60 pst. for the most common dental treatments for persons with extensive oral dryness. For these, the payments increased from $95 million. SEK in 2013 to SEK 133 million. SEK in 2014 and SEK 154 million. kr in 2015. Grants to build up the county council's offer to people who have suffered torture or assault and/or who are seriously afraid of dental treatment, odontophobia, have increased from 6.5 million. SEK in 2013 to approximately 80 million. kr in 2019. The dental trial scheme for hospitalised patients has increased from 7 million. NOK 21 million. kr. All these measures are protection systems for persons with special needs. We have also significantly developed dental care. The grant for specialist dental training and its geographical distribution has increased by a total of 20 million. kr, and the grant to the regional odontological centres of excellence and to the Nordic Institute of Odontological Materials increased by approximately 42 million. kr. Most of the funds have gone to competence development and research. At the same time, we have not removed any of the social welfare schemes of the people. However, we have adjusted the rates less than what is normal price development. State tariffs shall not operate in a market with free pricing. Nor do we have any guarantee that price adjustment in its entirety benefits patients. We have also adjusted down several tariffs as a result of new technology, simplifications in the tariff system, where the tariffs have been overpriced, and where the tariffs have been used significantly in addition to what the Health Directorate considers necessary for a functional set of teeth. So the goal in the platform has been followed up. We have expanded the shielding systems in several areas and improved dental care. The costs of dental care have also increased significantly in the scheme. The fact that we have not adjusted prices or made changes in tariffs as a result of technological developments is, in my opinion, an expression that we manage Community funds wisely.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1349	It is true that in the current year's budget, and what has now been presented, the mechanisms for victims of torture and assault reinforce something. But if you look at the draft budget now presented, even with that strengthening, you'll see that it's put up for a cut-back and savings of over 50 million. kr. I believe that the Council of State also agrees is real. In fact.no, they've examined whether you've cut over 300 million, and they've come to the conclusion that it's actually true, even though it's also true, as the Council says, that the total payments have increased. But there's something about the sum here after the measures that Höie presents, which have become tightening up anyway. Among other things, the Dental Association now says in its opinions that it affects the most vulnerable patient groups, and that it is also not right to cut and cut reimbursement tariffs without affecting patients. Does the Council of State agree that it is not possible to just hold back and trample the reimbursement tariffs without harming the patients at some point?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1356	One has to assess this from year to year, but there is no doubt that we have seen a smaller price increase in this area in recent years for the benefit of patients. One must again stress that the pricing in this area is free. It's private actors. And when we've chosen not to price the tariffs, it's probably contributed to one thing, that there's lower prices for patients and lower earnings for dentists. I think it's reasonable management of the community's resources. Then we've used some of those savings to expand the shielding systems for patients with greater needs. I think that's also wise. There's a way forward that I think is right to keep going too. And you always have to make sure that the public arrangements that we have, which are very trust-based in this area, are used sensibly, and not over-consumed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1363	I find that the Council of State does not want to talk about the accumulated contractions or savings or cuts of a total of 380 million. kr. I'm sorry, I'm worried that it's not as simple as the Council of State puts it forward as it is. It may also affect those who have the most poor advice, but who have a great need for good dental treatment. I understand that when the Council of State talks about price adjustments, he would like to refer to the what-cost table doctor.no, if that is understood correctly. In that case, it is a page that the Council of State itself, in reply to me in April, has said that there are major, significant shortcomings, and you also get the impression that it is not working properly. So you should be careful to use that side, I mean, as a witness of truth, in that way. The new government platform was created in January this year, and then something has been said about the extension of shielding systems, that you should expect some visions ahead of you. Then my question is – and not look at history, but look at the future: What future promises do you intend to make in the dental field in line with the promises of the government's political platform?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1372	The first thing we do is what we propose in the 2019 state budget, namely to further improve the supply of patients with odontophobia; it is reinforced in the draft budget. Then, of course, we will return to further follow-up to the point of the government platform in the coming state budgets in the coming years. But history is not unimportant in this context, for history tells us that the government, in cooperation with the cooperation parties, has made improvements year after year for the patients in the dental field. Then I perceive that the representative is very concerned with the earnings of the private dentists. I am concerned that the public funds are being used wisely, and that we are also doing the necessary tightening in areas where we see that the use of tariffs far exceeds what was expected. And it cannot be produced as a cut; it must be produced as a reasonable use of Community funds for the benefit of patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1382	‘Disease purchase HF has submitted tenders for the operation of the ambulance boat service on the Lopenhagen. The tender shall be closed on 30 October 2018. According to the tender, there is a desire to maintain local knowledge. However, according to the director of prehospital services at the Finnish Hospital, their lawyers agree that transfer of activities could be discriminatory and restrict real competition. Can the Council of State demonstrate that Norwegian law stands in the way of requiring a transfer of activities in the tender?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1389	The question of business transfer requirements was at the heart of the ambulance flight in the summer. In the light of this case, it has clearly been important to consider the possibility of imposing business transfer requirements in connection with the acquisition of the boat ambulance service in West Finland. Hospital purchases HF are responsible for carrying out the acquisition. In order to ensure the legal basis for the acquisition, advice has been obtained from two external law firms in addition to Hospital Purchases HF's own lawyers. The business transfer question has therefore been assessed by the Hospital Purchase HF, the law firm Wikborg Rein and the law firm Wiersholm. Everyone concluded that any requirement to transfer activities could lead to breaches of procurement principles of competition, non-discrimination and proportionality. All these assessments have been published in the context of the competition notice. The three legal assessments are on the Finnmark Hospital websites and are freely accessible to all. I have also informed the Control and Constitutional Committee of these assessments, since the Committee before the summer was concerned with the matter of the transfer of activities related to the ambulance aircraft case before the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1398	It's good that they're published, and I've read them. It is stated in the Wikborg Rein investigation that they have been informed that ‘the market for ambulance boats is such that crews follow the boat and the company and not the station’. Furthermore, it states that those ‘who already have a crew will in practice be excluded from making offers’. And even more: ‘In a market for ships that operates in this way, it is in our opinion problematic to impose a requirement of non-discrimination for a transfer of business.’ The problem is that the fact presented to the law firm is wrong, because under the Ship's Labour Act this is not the case. The crew is attached to the company.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1408	I have been very concerned that there are several assessments to be made here. Of course, I was introduced to Hospital Purchase HF's assessment, where one concluded that no business transfer could be required. I was then clear to Health Nord that I expected that they also made an external assessment of this. It was done by Wikborg Rein. I have also read their assessment. I thought that after that there was a basis for getting a «second opinion» from an external assessment, and Health Nord and the Finnmark Hospital did so by getting a new assessment, from the law firm Wiersholm. I believe that we need to look at the conclusions they draw in all these three assessments. That is also what Hospital Purchase and Health Nord and the Finnish Hospital must of course be based on. All three conclude that in this case one cannot claim a transfer of business.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1415	I have also read Wiersholm’s investigation into the health company’s right to require a transfer of business – i.e. not an obligation, but a right to demand it. That's what it says. «Furthermore, in our view, such a requirement would not be lawful under the procurement law, since the requirement would infringe fundamental principles of competition, non-discrimination and proportionality.» Equal treatment is central. What's at the heart of this is that when crews follow company, there's no shipping company that if they already have a crew, they'll get two crews if you get a business transfer. So the entire investigation from the law firms and hospitals lawyers is based on the wrong fact, and so the conclusion falls.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1425	I am very clear that these are assessments that healthcare companies have a responsibility to do. My commitment to this matter has just been to assure me that they get several independent assessments. It is those who must draw conclusions based on it, but I note the conclusion of the three assessments. If some legal environments object to these assessments, they are now public, and they have the opportunity to raise those objections. I do not believe that neither the representative Lundtigen nor the undersigned has sufficient legal competence to review these assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1433	‘In the treatment of the National Health and Hospital Plan by the Stortingen, it was established that the prehospital services should be strengthened. However, according to the Health Directorate's figures, no health business is able to meet the Storting's indicative response times for ambulances. One of the purposes of the Special Health Service Act is to contribute to an equivalent service provision. Long response times conflict with this objective. What obligatory measures have the Council of State asked health businesses to implement in order to meet the response time targets?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1440	The government’s objective is to ensure a coherent system of emergency services within and outside hospitals providing adequate safety and quality throughout the country. One of the national health and hospital plans is to strengthen emergency medical services outside hospitals. The plan lists the government's actions, and I have followed up the measures by giving assignments to the health regions and the Health Directorate. The Representative Top is concerned about the car ambulance response time. Response time is important for the safety of the population, but response times do not say anything about how the patient is doing. OECD figures show that Norwegian results are world-class in the treatment of acute myocardial infarction and stroke. This indicates that, as a whole, we have a functioning emergency chain. Top question is what I have done to ensure that healthcare companies meet the car ambulance response targets. I have ensured that the response time for the ambulance service has become a national quality indicator, in line with the Committee's recommendation. It is good that results for response time are published. Knowing how much time it takes for the ambulance to arrive can be used to plan resource and capacity planning, and I also expect health care companies to use the results to improve the service. The Health Directorate reports that the quality indicator is being audited. Official response time figures are therefore not available in Healthnorge.no. The background to the audit is that there are a number of challenges with definitions of the indicator and thus also the presentation of the results. I refer to my answer to the written answer number 2352, which shows why it is necessary to revise the quality indicator in order to get a more accurate picture of the response times. The Health Directorate publishes new up-to-date figures once the indicator has been revised. Geographical differences and housing patterns explain differences in car ambulance response time around the country. Nevertheless, I agree with Toppe that an unreasonable difference should be avoided in order to ensure the most equivalent offer to the entire population. When the Health Directorate publishes up-to-date figures, I expect health businesses to review the results and make improvements. Finally, I would like to mention that about 98 pst. the population of Norway is reached by medically-manned ambulance helicopters within 45 minutes. This is good within the target of 90 pst. and is important to ensure equivalent services.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1457	Governments are talking about a coherent system of prehospital services, and that we have a good prehospital emergency supply in Norway. That's true, but we also have many studies that show that there are major differences in the country, and that one has a greater risk of dying of injury and accident in pig-grown areas, like in North Norway. We know that, so there are differences today in access to emergency services. Then we also have to have a policy that counters it, and not that reinforces it. I have been a little uncertain whether the Council of State felt that the response time for the ambulance is important, because he responds repeatedly to me and others that it is the gathering of the supply that is important, emergency care and medical care. I want to ask you straight out if the council believes that the ambulance response times are to be reached.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1464	I have introduced this as a national quality indicator, precisely in order to measure health businesses on target. It is also the tool that the public authority that assessed this, recommended to us. They did not recommend a regulatory attachment or a law of these response times, simply because one thought it was not appropriate. But having this as a quality goal, being measured on it, constantly monitoring development, is important. But I also want to stress what I always say, that this is not the only way to make sure that we have a good emergency medical response. The quality of the services, the competence of the car, the overall services – from the people’s own efforts to the highly specialised supply – are what creates security for the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1471	We are not at all disunity about the importance of collecting the supply, from first aid skills in the population, to medical care, to emergency workers and to the first aid skills of health professionals working in the services. But now one across the country feels that the ambulance is being centralised. He's being dragged away, and that's not because of the professional recommendations, but because of the economy. This has been a problem over the years – and without the guidance response times being followed. For this reason, we have proposed a regulatory attachment, but the Council of State wants it in as a quality indicator, which is now. But once again to the main question: if one does not achieve these quality indicators, how many years will the Council of State let it go before he intervenes and ensure that the response times are exceeded?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1478	After the revision of the numerical basis, we're going to get a status of what's the situation. Of course, I am clear to health companies that this is a national quality indicator on which they are measured. In my opinion, this is part of the healthcare that has been through a significant quality improvement in recent years, not least in relation to the competence of the staff. This was a service that actually almost started as a pure transport service, but which is today a highly qualified healthcare service. A description that this is a service that has been through a negative development is a description that I do not agree with. The collection around fewer but larger ambulance stations has been part of the quality improvement.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1488	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘In VG’s extensive reports on the Addictology environment, we have been documented how sick, vulnerable and dependent people have been diagnosed, for example. as «pig disease» and bound to long-term treatment and treatment trips for tens of thousands of crowns. Police say that these activities are not currently covered by the Health Care Professional Act, the Alternative Treatment Act, or similar. Does the Council of State believe that we today have complementary legislation that can protect sick vulnerable people in a good enough way from exploitation from such environments?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1497	As I understand VG's performance, none of the persons in the Addictology Academy are health professionals, as this group is defined in the Health Care Act. The Health Personnel Act, which falls under the responsibility of the Ministry of Health and Welfare, applies to health professionals who ‘provide health care’ under the law and are subject to the requirements of sound operation. Supervisory authorities may exercise supervision and may make use of the health-care professionals’ response system in the event of a breach of the requirements of sound operation. Services provided by other personnel could be covered by the Act on Alternative Disease Treatment. Law on Alternative Disease Treatment defines alternative treatment as ‘health-related treatment carried out outside the healthcare system and not by authorised health professionals’. The term ‘health-related treatment’ is further specified and defined in the preparatory work of the law. Among other things, it must be possible to interpret services that appear essentially as life-vision guidance, personal self-development, coaching, etc., often fall outside the scope of the law. However, this needs to be assessed on a case-by-case basis. If the law applies, it will limit what individuals can offer treatment and what diseases and disorders can be treated. In that case, violation of the law will be punishable. In my opinion, we have a regulatory framework that essentially involves a good regulation of establishments that are characterised as ‘health care’ or ‘health-related treatment’. Where a specific activity falls outside the scope of this legislation, it must be assessed whether the activity might be contrary to other legislation. The VG's series of articles on the Academy of Addictology shows several aspects that remain to be dealt with or assessed by the police. I therefore ask for an understanding that I cannot comment on the many individual issues related to the Addictology Academy that VG has explained. However, on a general basis, I would say that the person offering an offer to people who are in a vulnerable situation of life bears a great moral and ethical responsibility that the individual does not harm either mentally, physically or economically. This applies even if the activity is not explicitly contrary to the applicable legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1508	I thank the Council of State for the answer. What is special here about coaching and various services that people should be able to choose in our society, get help from volunteers, etc. is that this is aimed at sick vulnerable people who suffer from some form of addiction — in particular addiction, in the case we are talking about here — and where it does not take place within the institutions we know, and are not health professionals, as the Council of State determines. Nevertheless, I believe that there is a limit to diagnosing people, for example. as ‘pig disease’ — as mentioned here, and mentioned by many who have been in the environment — and also when it is said that people can be made healthy and demanded a lot of payment for those services and for that work. I think the limit goes – that you can no longer say that we should not be able to protect these people. So when the Council of State says that the law doesn't meet this today, will he look at other possibilities to get there?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1513	I cannot specifically decide whether this is covered by the law or not, but I have given an explanation of the two laws that would have been applicable to health professionals. Then there are other authorities that assess this, such as the Health Authority and others who are responsible for assessing the specific individual issues. But then there are several issues in this case that are for treatment and assessment by the police, precisely because I expect the police to assess whether these are matters covered by other types of legislation. That's why I can't go into those relationships, and I'm asking you to understand that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1518	I thank you for that answer, and I am aware that the police are working on what are purely criminal matters, which are torpedo business, the use of cash without notifying the tax authorities, harassment, threats, etc. That's another side of the matter. But what I would like to ask, is that the Ministry of Health, the Secretary of State there, has announced that there is a legal work going on after the revelations of the so-called miracle preachers, who are engaged in health care, and I saw in the VG now on Monday that the Secretary of State said: ‘However, it is not as certain that activities which appear mainly to be professional, commercial and economically motivated should have the same strong requirement for regulatory protection as general religious activities. When the Council of State has said that we will assess the legislation, it is, among other things, to assess whether today’s legislation is good enough or clear enough to ‘manage’ this distinction.’ That's what I'm talking about, that when you charge a lot of money, when you say you can make people healthy and run this on a commercial basis, there's a need for legislation. [[President clubs]] Would this go into the same work? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1528	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1533	The possible consequences of this work on this other matter raised by the representative is too early to say something about, but what is one of the starting points for the work done on the matter with the so-called miracle preachers is that religious activity has a special protection in the law on alternative treatment. What is then the question there is whether the specific protection goes too far in relation to the delimitation of what can be considered purely commercial activities, and thus does not have the main emphasis on what is important to protect, namely people's legitimate desire and need to be able to seek help also within religion and faith, against which it is important to limit the law on alternative treatment. That's the problem we're going through now.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1541	‘University Hospital Nord-Norway plans to remove the ambulance stations on the Stongland Sea and in Gryllefjord and to remove the daily supply to the ambulance in Salangen and move it to Setermoen. [[UNN]] This will lead to increased response time for many municipalities in Troms. It has rightly created fear and arrogance in the people. What is the intention of the Council of State to do to ensure the security of the inhabitants of these areas?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1548	We have good emergency medical services in Norway. The population shall be confident that they will receive competent assistance when they need it. The ambulance service is an important part of the emergency medical chain. A good emergency chain assumes that all joints work, both the medical guard, the ambulance and the air ambulance. OECD figures show that Norwegian results are world-class in the treatment of acute myocardial infarction and stroke. It shows and can indicate that we have a functioning emergency chain. The representative Borch points out that the University Hospital of North Norway, UNN, has plans to remove the ambulance stations in Stonglandseidet and Gryllefjord and replace them with one station and move the day ambulance from Salangen to Setermoen. This was also the subject of a question for a written answer from Borch earlier in October. In my reply, I referred to the board case to be dealt with on 4 October. As Borch is probably familiar with, the matter of government was exposed. As I understand it, the local authorities' views in the case have not come up at a relevant time. The board has therefore asked the University Hospital of Nord-Norway to start a new process and involve the municipalities. Municipalities shall also be given the opportunity to comment on the final assessment by the administration before the board re-examines the matter. I am concerned that health companies and municipalities have thorough and involved processes when making changes to the emergency response. It's absolutely crucial. It is good that the UN now commits to a broad process, so that the municipalities are given an opinion on the changes proposed. Health regions are responsible for providing a good ambulance service and have to assess what is an appropriate organisation of the service. It is important not to draw conclusions on structural changes in the ambulance service until a revised decision-making basis is available. Now it's up to an involved process with the municipalities. That is good, and it is important for the security of the inhabitants of the affected areas. Then we'll have to wait for the final evaluations, when they're done. The involvement of municipalities is absolutely crucial, simply because it is the total emergency medical circle that has to work for the municipalities. In that case, health companies cannot look only at their services in isolation; they must also involve the municipalities in this and look at the consequences of this on the responsibilities of municipalities under the same law.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1561	As the Council of State was here, it has been decided to postpone the matter. However, it is under every criticism that the municipalities have not been heard in this matter. On the other hand, they have been reassured by a number of UN letters that there would be no changes to the offer. When this became known through the media, there were violent reactions from people and politicians, and signing campaigns were launched against the plans for closure. How does the Council of State contribute to the follow-up of the procedures before important decisions are taken, and has the Council of State been informed of all complaints received, from both municipalities, staff at the ambulance stations, trustees and local councillors?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1568	Yes, I am well aware of the reactions that this work has led to in the affected local environments. I feel that the UN Board of Directors has taken seriously the leadership that I have given to the health regions and health businesses in this area, when they, as the board of directors, have chosen to say that this decision-making basis was not good enough, put the matter at risk and asked for a new process. So I feel that the UN Board of Directors is taking the national leaders in this area very seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1573	In one case on 22 September, Kim Hofsøy and his son Felix were brought forward in seven months by NRK Troms. Felix has a disease that affects both the heart, eyes and ears. The boy is almost blind, he's deaf on one ear and has a crooked back. If the Stongland Ambulance Station is closed, to which it has been posted by the UN, the family fears that they will have to move. Does the Council of State think that residents of municipalities need to move in order to get a proper ambulance offer and feel safe?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1580	No, we're going to have a proper emergency medical offer in Norway outside the hospitals. It is a responsibility of both the state health regions and the municipalities. Here the municipalities and the state health regions have a common responsibility under the emergency medicine regulation. I assume that the municipalities and health companies work together well to meet the requirements that are being met there. In this context, I find that the health company has acknowledged that they have not done a good enough job in cooperation with the municipalities, and that the board has asked for the work to be done again.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1592	This question must be postponed until the next question time.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1600	‘There are 6 000 vacancies in Norway and 600 in Northern Ireland, according to the Association of Nurses. The increase in the last year has been 47 pst. However, there is little candidate mass, because there are not enough nurses to take off. We see the same situation in the school system, where in North Norway alone there are more than 800 teaching positions occupied by unskilled people. If the Council of State is satisfied with the situation, does the Council of State consider that the appropriations for vocational training are satisfactory, and what does the Council of State think to do to get out of the situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1607	We need to have good access to qualified nurses and teachers in all parts of the country. The government therefore emphasises both the training, recruitment and strengthening of the competences of nurses and teachers. However, social feedback shows that there is a need for more candidates in the two occupational groups, including: in North Norway. Training capacities in nursing training have gradually been improved. In 2017, 5 355 students were admitted to nursing school, and there is an increase of 845 students since 2007. In 2018, In addition, the Stortinget has allocated an additional 100 study places. There are many qualified students who are applying for nurse training. However, it is a major challenge to provide these students with a sufficient number of places of practice, and those places of practice we need to know that we are in place before we can assign new places of study to the different institutions. The government has therefore proposed 10 million in the 2019 state budget. to a pilot of a community practice in the field of health and social education. It is a system that we want to contribute to more and better practices and to strengthen recruitment to health and social work out in municipalities. It is not least relevant when we know that several of the students in these subjects are primarily going to work in the primary health service. At the same time, not only new places of study are important to meet the needs of more nurses. It is also important to reduce in-flight absenteeism in education, so that as much as possible the study actually takes place. And then, of course, such things as permanent and entire jobs have something to say when you're going to recruit and keep competent employees and employees. Having a good working environment at work is also important to make people become. With regard to the recruitment of the teaching profession, we have taken a number of measures. We have a scholarship scheme for school staff who lack teacher training and are qualified for practical and educational training. We have new career paths in school, including the teacher-specialist system. We have established a five-year primary school teacher training. We have set up a scheme for the cancellation of student loans that specifically caters for candidates in primary school teacher education from 1st to 7th stages and those who take up work in North Norway. It is possible to write down the study loan by up to NOK 161 000 under certain conditions. In 2017, in order to strengthen the work of recruiting teachers, it was set at 9.5 million. NOK to that work, of which 6.7 million went. kr to Nord-Norway. In 2018, we've put off 10 million. NOK to carry out recruitment work.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1622	Thank you to the Council of State for your answer. We know that there's a relationship between where the students are trained and where they start working. In my region there is a great shortage of nurses and a great shortage of teachers. Nevertheless, the Council of State has a funding system that has weakened many of the new universities. For example, Nord University reports that they receive a reduced base allocation of 11 million. kr. This – in addition to the government’s efficiency pact, which now exceeds 1 billion. kr – affects the core activities of the UH sector and has serious consequences for professional training. Does the Council of State see that there is a connection between the shortage of nurses and teachers we see in the north and the allocation of resources to which the government has committed? And how can the Council of State defend the cuts we have in the UH sector, seen in the light of the great challenge we have in recruiting nurses and teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1629	The representative refers to the financial instrument adopted earlier by the Stortinget and no changes have been made to it in the draft government budget submitted. I know that Nord University and several other universities would want the funding mechanism to be different, but I have no reason to link it to the lack of nurses and teachers, because there is a need for more places in the country. The fact that we have hospitals that have detonated capacity to bring up new students is a matter of lack of practice. It is also about the possibility of financing such sites. That's why we start a pilot to see how we can get to more places of practice, not least in the primary health service, both to relieve hospitals and to give a different competence to the nurses who are going to take the study.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1636	There are enough people who would think that there is a link between using funding to raise people to first-class competence and, if necessary, using it to strengthen basic education. Following the major reorganisation of higher education, many in the sector, and not least in society around it, are concerned that the social responsibility of the old universities, based on the needs of their own region, has been evaded, in favour of the primary role of universities in conducting basic research and conducting research training. In Northern Ireland, Nesna, who this year celebrates 100 years of teacher training, and who has also trained nurses for many years, has had such a responsibility. What can the Council of State do to ensure that universities have financial framework conditions that enable them to discharge their social responsibility for educating teachers and nurses, including decentralised services outside the largest campuses?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1645	Yes, we see a challenge of recruiting places of study in teacher training. Here we can compare two new universities, where we have Nord University on one side, with different campers and different challenges, and OsloMet on the other side, also with different campers. We see that recruitment is easier at OsloMet, although it is also a new university with the same funding mechanisms as Nord University. It is probably a general challenge that districts have more to do with attracting students than, for example: OsloMet does. I am concerned that our universities and colleges – whether they are in Oslo, Nesna or Tromsø – should have a close connection with the business community, the working life in which they are part, because it is an important task to recruit the labour force of the region in which they are. But we have a challenge, and that's why we've also spent money on recruiting teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1655	I have the following questions for the Minister for Agriculture and Food: ‘There is concern in the agricultural industry because of uncertainty about what new climate requirements could mean for Norwegian agricultural industry. Does the Council agree that cutting in Norwegian food production is an impractical tool to reduce national greenhouse gas emissions and that agriculture must be measured in emissions per unit of production, as mentioned in the adjustment of the agricultural notification?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1664	The objectives of agricultural policy are underpinned by the government negotiating a mutual agreement on emission reductions with agriculture. There is something the Minister for Climate and Environment and I have always stressed in our dialogue with agriculture. The main task of agriculture is to produce food. In the interests of preparedness, resource utilisation, value creation, employment and climate, it is important that Norwegian agriculture produces the feed and food that it is able to produce in Norway and to an extent that can meet domestic demand and export. At the same time, it is an objective that we should have a sustainable agriculture with lower greenhouse gas emissions. This includes, inter alia: agriculture in a climate context needs to reduce emissions per unit of output, in addition to increasing CO 2 capture and not least adapting production to a changing climate. The last few summers have been demanding for Norwegian farmers, where we have experienced both precipitation cords and droughts. It shows that it is necessary to rest so that it can also be repeated in the future. I am pleased that the agricultural organisations have agreed to engage in dialogue with the government on a mutual agreement on sectoral emission reductions. Farming shall have a high degree of flexibility in relation to the measures taken. It is also necessary that both parties, through their instruments, facilitate the reduction of agricultural emissions. The agricultural agreement shall be more climate-friendly and, in the agricultural settlement of 2018, there was a clear commitment to climate and environmental action, inter alia. with a strengthening of the funds for research, development and building skills related to agricultural climate challenges and adaptation, the development of climate-friendly technologies and measures to contribute to reducing emissions. This is a long-term work that becomes an important priority for the future. We also reinforced the commitment to concrete measures that have a direct impact on agricultural greenhouse gas emissions. I agree that the greenhouse gas reductions to be applied in agricultural production must be measured as reductions per unit of output. In the negotiations with agriculture, we also look at measures that take place in sectors other than those defined as agriculture in the greenhouse gas accounts, for example. in transport and construction. It is necessary that both parties, through their instruments, facilitate the reduction of agricultural emissions. In other words, there is a reciprocity between the State and agriculture on the basis of the negotiation of such an agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1678	I thank you for your answer. I thought the government council was particularly good at the beginning, where I recognized the sentences from the agricultural message setting. It's a pretty tough demand for agriculture, and it's actually one of the things I want to get through with the Council of State. Is this the number of $4.5 million? tonnes of CO 2 an absolute requirement established, or is it also part of the negotiation? So the size of the setting of the agricultural message underlines that agriculture's climate policy must be evidence-based. There are special things about Norwegian production that differ from other countries, including Norway. NRF-kua is a climate winner – a climate-tesla. Would you like to take care of that, too? But my main question is to clarify this by 4.5 million. tonnes of CO 2 is an absolute requirement of the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1696	The starting point is that we say we'll be concerned about having a high target. I feel that there are also many people in the industry who think it is right to have a starting point. Then it is that one should negotiate with the organisations and the state, where the state should also take its part in the responsibility. What's positive about this is that now you're probably going to have an agreement where the country and agriculture, both sides, say they're going to join in and get to the goals you're agreeing on. So there will be negotiations, but the government has said that we want to be ambitious and have a high goal. We do that in all the other areas as well, we have high targets to reduce emissions. That is what is at the root here too, but of course there will be negotiations and dialogue. I'm convinced that it's quite possible, because there's a lot of technology and research going on that can help us get there.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1704	My last question is whether it is relevant for the government to introduce a so-called steak tax to reduce the consumption of red meat.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1709	I register that the representative Pollestad is very busy with fees. What's now here is a starting point -- we want to see how to reduce emissions. The Prime Minister referred to this last week's Question Time, when she clearly said that it is important in Norwegian political debate to clear up what are political proposals and government proposals, and what is the review of reports. The government has not proposed any such cut as it was then referred to, and that goes on meat, nor is it in the government's strategy. However, climate legislation reports refer to the Environment DG's report at the time on what can be done to bring about significant reductions in emissions from agriculture and other sectors. I want to point out that there is a lot of research and development going on that is exciting, and that can be involved and make sure that you can meet the requirements that are for reducing emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1716	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-10-17.ana.ud121e1730	There is no record available. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
