ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e59	The called alternate of the Sogn and Fjordane counties, Steinar Ness, has taken their seats. A number of permit applications are available: from representatives Espen Barth Eide, Ingunn Foss and Marianne Marthinsen on leave from 20 November to 23 November, all to attend meetings of the EFTA Parliamentary Committee in Brussels from representatives Else-May Botten, Margunn Ebbesen, Willfred Nordlund, Tage Pettersen and Eirik Sivertsen on leave from 20 November to 22 November, all to attend the meetings of the Arctic Cooperation Council in Tórshavn These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternates of West Agder and Nordland counties, Mathias Bernander and Elizabeth Åsjord Sire respectively, and other alternates of Oslo, Didrik Beck, there are applications for exemptions from meeting in the Storting from 20 November to 22 November, under the representatives of Ingunn Foss, Margunn Ebbesen and Espen Barth Eides, respectively, for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For West Agder County: Bene density Limmesand Hellestøl For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Tove-Lise Torve For the Nordic counties: Kjell-Idar Juvik, Agnete Tjærandsen and Kari Anne Bøkestad Andreassen For Oslo: Zaineb Al-Samarai and Inger Helene Vaaten For Eastfold County: Monica Carmen Gåsvatn
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e158	The representative, Jette F. Christensen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e164	I will be allowed, on behalf of myself, to present a proposal for a representative on the law against modern slavery.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e169	The representative, Petter Eide, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e174	I will be allowed to present a representative proposal on behalf of Audun Lysbakken, Kari Elisabeth Kaski and myself on a new and clear Norwegian policy towards Saudi Arabia.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e179	The representative, Karin Andersen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e184	On behalf of the representatives of Une Bastholm, Bjørn Moxnes and myself, I would like to make a proposal on a limitation period for withdrawal of citizenship.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e189	The representative, André N. Skkelstad, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e195	On behalf of the representatives Norunn Tveiten Benestad, Kari Kjønaas Kjos, Torhild Bransdal and myself, I would like to make a proposal to amend Section 17 of the partitioning law and ask for as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e200	The representative, Kjersti Toppe, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e205	On behalf of Siv Mossleth and myself, I would like to make a proposal to secure women the right to compensation for serious birth defects.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e210	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e228	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e237	This case began as a proposal from Ingvild Kjerkol, Elise Björnebeck-Waaagen, Tore Hagebakken, Tellef Inge Mørland and Tuva Moflag. The required measures to reduce the incidence and mortality of puncture scratches. In recent years, there has been a marked increase in the number of cases of emesis. This cancer is increasing most in Norway, and we have the highest mortality rate of this cancer in Europe. Norway is one of the countries in the world where, in relative terms, the majority of its inhabitants receive birthmarks. In other words, there are good reasons to pay particular attention to this cancer. Changing the sun’s habits may be the main cause of the increase. We have had more leisure time and holidays. It's modern with tan skin. Still more trips on holiday trips to places with strong sun, where the goal is to get the most hours on sunday, which can definitely tempt on a gray weather day as today. At the same time, this is a low mortality cancer if the cancer is detected early. This is also a cancer that we can prevent by using sunscreen and by shielding the skin from excessive sunning and excessive use of solarium. Sunscreen belongs to filter out the dangerous ultraviolet rays. Up towards 90 pst. of skin cancer cases are related to ultraviolet radiation from sun and solarium. But it's also not healthy for the body to avoid sunning, so here's the rule: Too much and too little is all wrong. If skin cancer is detected and treated early, it is easy and inexpensive to treat. The prospect of getting well is very good, also for foe spotting. Nevertheless, mortality in femoral fractures is rising, mainly due to persons with femoral fractures coming too late to a doctor. The overall objectives of public health policy in Norway say that we should be among the three countries of the world with the highest life expectancy, that the population should experience more years of life with good health, well-being and reduced social health differences, and that a society should be created that promotes health throughout the population. The Committee shares the concerns about the development of pectoris in Norway. These developments seek to reverse the Committee. It is fully possible to reduce the number of cancer cases through good information, to improve knowledge of the signs of skin cancer and other measures. Once the Committee has shared and is not in favour of a joint recommendation, the Ministry of Health and Welfare at the Åse Michaelsen Council has announced that a separate strategy for the prevention of skin cancer will be completed during 2018. The State's Radiation Protection Agency is leading the work on the strategy, and they cooperate with, inter alia: The Health Directorate, the Public Health Institute and the Cancer Register. In addition, they have linked themselves to a broad composite reference group of stakeholders from the relevant trade unions and non-governmental organisations. The minority believe that the proposal for a representative is good, but that the proposal and the recommendation of the majority take into account the ‘Strategy for the Prevention of Skin Cancer’, which is due to be completed during 2018.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e256	In the children's song it says: «Sola is good. The sun is the top. But the sun can actually also be dangerous to the body. That is the background to the proposal we are discussing here today. For the Workers' Party, effective prevention and good treatment are important pillars of health policy. Norway is one of the world’s worst countries in terms of the incidence and mortality of femoral disease. This is paradoxical, because most cases of skin cancer are fully preventable. Up towards 90 pst. of skin cancer cases are related to UV radiation from sun and solarium. When pelvic flotation is detected early, the prognosis is good, while pelvic flotation with dispersal provides significantly less chance of survival. In recent years, the number of cases has increased dramatically, and we have to do something about this. That is why the Labour Party has promoted the proposal under consideration. According to the Cancer Association, there are several reasons Norway is on the world top in feces. The increased incidence is due to changed sundown habits. We're more out in the sun, both here at home and through frequent trips to warmer stretches. In addition, the use of solarium comes. A major reason Norway has a high mortality rate is that many people are late for medical treatment. Femoral effusion is the most severe form of skin cancer and is still one of the most increasing cancers. The Workers' Party has also made proposals in the past, through representatives' proposals in 2014. Although not all of the proposals are getting a majority today, we are happy that we have come a little further and that we are getting a strategy in place. A new Norwegian solar study has revealed that only 17 pst. they consider that they are able to assess whether a stain is dangerous. That's exactly why we have to learn what to look for. In the proposal for a representative, we therefore propose to facilitate a more comprehensive and structured approach to information, prevention and detection of skin cancer. But there are two things you're facing. It's discovery, and it's proper treatment. Therefore, increased capacity in the pathology field is also important in order to be rusted for the notified increase in both foe spot and other cancers in the coming years. This is addressed in our proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox Finally, I would like to make an explanation of vote. Of course, I am addressing the proposals of which the Labour Party is part, and I would also like to inform you that we will subsidly support proposal No. 3, from the Central Party and the Christian People's Party, if our proposal is no. 2 goes into 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e275	The representative Tuva Moflag has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e280	The ban on solarium advertising – so today the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party have asked the government to issue a ban on advertising solarium. We have had a taste of what it would have meant if the party leader of the Christian People's Party had got what he wanted, and gathered the socialist parties into a community of values with a ban line and general mistrust that people can think for themselves. The Progress Party does not support this ban line, we do not in any way support a ban on solarium or advertising it. This matter is really about skin cancer, and the government will shortly put forward a strategy to prevent skin cancer, because it is serious. However, blaming on solarium advertising for the skin cancer problem in Norway becomes too simple. Solarium isn't just bad luck. It's also a source of vitamin D, and it's a good treatment for a number of eczema patients. In moderate quantities, solarium can actually be positive. What I don't understand is why the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party are so dedicated to banning advertising. Actually, it doesn't solve any problems. The only challenge the Progress Party sees in the matter presented is that the requirements of competence that apply in solarium are understood differently across the country. We have nursing homes that offer solarium, we have training studios, we even have solarium here at Stortinget. And it's not like everyone who's employed in this connection is affected by the competence requirement. The Progress Party has asked us to clean it up and ensure that the competence requirement is understood equally across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e291	That Norway has landed with the highest mortality rate of femoral effusion, and that femoral effusion is the cancer that increases most, we must take seriously. Other countries have managed to reverse this trend with deliberate strategies, and in some countries solarium is banned. Solarium is classified as potentially carcinogenic, and that we have done nothing more in Norway to prevent children and young people from being exposed to such a health risk, I don't think anything is proud of. An investigation directed by the Cancer Association showed that almost eight out of ten were under 18 years of age for the first time they used solarium – eight out of ten – and almost all were customers in an unannounced studio. It was in 2012 that the red-green government introduced the 18-year limit for solarium and irradiation requirements. The blue-blue government took this away when they came to power in 2013. Age limits did not touch them, although in 2012 they were also strongly opposed to them. Now we see that the enforcement of the new requirements is not followed up. It is the responsibility of this government. Knowledge test, age check and warning posters are not enforced. It shows that removing the requirement for ignition was wrong. For this reason, the Centre Party is now equally concerned that today's enforcement regime, i.e. today's legislation, must be strengthened and followed up, and that we do not only see demands for stricter regulations. We suggest reviewing and enforcing today's regulations, and we support the assessment of a ban on advertising. In the last two notes in the setting, it is wrong that the center part is not present. It is about focusing on information, prevention and early detection of skin cancer, intensifying efforts to prevent skin cancer, and information campaign on the dangers of solarium and other sunbathing. Of course, we're some of these. It is good that the Labour Party will vote subsidiaryly for the Center Party and the Christian People's Party's proposal so that it may have multiples. I find it incomprehensible that no more support the proposal of the Labour Party and the Center Party in the attitude to strengthen the pathology supply, because we think something about early diagnosis, we also need to remove the bottlenecks, and that is the pathology supply. Another thing is that one needs more dermal if one is to succeed with a strategy to prevent puncture and get as early a diagnosis as possible. I would like to address the proposal in the configuration of the Central Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e308	The representative Kjersti Toppe then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e313	Norway is, as has also been said here, among the world’s highest incidence countries, and not least the mortality rate of femoral encephalomyelitis. I share the Committee's concern about the development of this serious form of cancer. Preventive measures are important, and I am, like the Committee, concerned with good information and increased knowledge of the signs of skin cancer hazards. Early detection and treatment are important for the survival of this type of cancer. The health directorate’s diagnosis guide for pharyngitis can contribute to increased knowledge of diagnosis by the permanent doctors and thus also to what is important: early detection and ensuring good referral to the specialist health service. Pistachios package sequences contribute to a holistic and predictable course for patients and for relatives. But we know that skin cancer can be prevented, and it is far more cost-effective than treatment. At the same time, successful prevention requires knowledge, awareness of risk factors, hazard signals and possible prevention measures. It is well documented that UV radiation from the sun and sunlight is the main cause of the development of skin cancer. When people get more knowledge and become more aware of the dangers of too much sun, it also makes it easier for the individual to make good choices about the sun's behavior. I have received draft UV and skin cancer strategy from the State Radiation Protection Agency. It is an objective that the various measures proposed in the strategy should contribute to a precisely increased level of competence, knowledge and awareness of birth defects and prevention, both for individuals, in administration and not least in health care. These measures relate to both prevention and early detection, which we point to, increased knowledge and awareness of the population, and not least to the need to assess all kinds of sun. We suggest that Statem's radiation protection should lead a multidisciplinary group to follow the strategy. A follow-up is to look at how best to implement the actions of the strategy. Prevention is important, and good information is essential to enable the population to make informed choices about sunning and possible protective measures. With Statem's radiation protection coordination role in the follow-up to the UV and skin cancer strategy, I believe that we are facilitating a more holistic and structured focus on information, prevention and early detection of skin cancer. This is precisely in line with the Committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e326	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e331	Now the Minister of Public Health may have more faith in regulation than his colleague Bruun-Gundersen. I refer then to the withdrawal of the packaging calendar of the Vinmonopole earlier this week. Therefore, I wonder if the Council of State can say anything about what she thinks about regulating the sunscreen in Norway, all the time we know that both sundial and solarium have an impact on the cases of foe spotting. I would like to stress that I think the decision of the Council of State on the Vinmonopolet was wise, so it was not meant to be harelas from my side.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e337	To take the last one first: it wasn't actually the Council of State that made a decision, it's the Vinmonopole itself that makes any decision. So I don't want that honor. So it's like that in this question that the individual can actually make choices himself. That also means that the information needs to be clarified, and I think the committee very much agrees with that. In particular, I'd like to look at youth. Young people are in difficult situations, they have very different visions, to use that word, and perhaps also information that is not always good enough to make the right decision and understand the damage you can do to yourself with unwitting sunlight. In this regard, I think that in the UV and skin cancer strategy we are going to present, we are very concerned about, in line with the Committee's demand, this with knowledge-building, so that individuals can make their own decision as to what is right and wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e344	Now it wasn't really the information campaign I had to ask about, but if the Council of State thinks there's a need to look at how to follow up and regulate the sunscreen to avoid an increase in the incidence of foe spotting. I want the Council of State to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e349	Yes, and it is also part of the strategy we are looking at and we are going to consider: what action must be taken to meet this challenge that we all agree on?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e354	In the proposal for a skin cancer strategy issued by the State Radiation Protection Agency, they aim to cut 25 pst. of skin cancers by 2040, and they propose a ban on advertising. They compare advertising for solarium with advertising for tobacco and alcohol. They think that a ban will have a good effect and they don't think it should be allowed to advertise a carcinogen. Like tobacco and alcohol, they will not allow advertising to harm us. Now we heard that the Progress Party representative here today was very clear that the Progress Party is not in favour of a ban on advertising. Will the Minister for Public Health consider a ban on advertising something that is carcinogenic?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e359	Now we have received input from different teams, and the mandate I have is that I should sit and consider different measures to achieve the reduction we want – and I am also fully convinced that a unanimous committee wants. I speak on behalf of the government's desire to get into port. That means we have to look wide. We need to look at which measures work best, and we need to see them in the context. We need to see how it is done in other countries, and we need to see how we can make it possible for ourselves to achieve the goals we set ourselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e364	Thank you for your answer, but I would like to ask again for a ban on advertising. Since the representative of the Progress Party was so clear that it did not come up with a speech, I will only hear the Minister of Public Health say: Yes, as Minister of Public Health, I will consider advertising bans as part of that strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e369	I will consider all the proposals that are coming, and it will be implicitly wide too – what is mentioned here, but also others. I think we should not close any doors. We need to look at everything. But what the conclusion is is a completely different matter. I will consider each case and every proposal that comes in. In fact, I think that the mandate I've been given, and what I'm going to do as Minister of Public Health, is to see this in context. That is why I am looking at these proposals. They may be concrete, but we're going to be very aware that some suggestions can knock others out. That's why we have to see them in context. One of the things that I pointed out in my article and that I'm concerned about is that we see the proposals in context, because we want to achieve that goal. That's our wish. What I have also understood is that the whole cross-political committee is committed to achieving the goal of preventing so many people from getting pectoris – with the end it often has.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e374	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e381	Let me first say that the proposers have pointed to a major challenge we have to take seriously. It's perhaps a paradox that something that we all want more of, namely the sun, is also able to cause us serious damage, which in the worst case can take life. As the proposers point out, Norway is one of the world’s most frequent incidences of feces, and we are at the top of Europe in terms of mortality. That's why it's good that questions are asked about what we can do to get the number down. It points to the need for information, and there is little political disagreement. I think most of us know very well what danger we are facing when, after a long, cold and dark winter, we finally see the possibility of getting a little color on the body, but even with the good knowledge of each of us already having what consequences it can get too much sun, many of us repeat the same mistake year after year. Therefore, of course, more information can be important and have an effect. I also noticed that the proposers as an approach to the problem would have more regulation, an assessment of advertising bans, and they might also consider some additional charges – that would not surprise me. The primary task of the State should be to inform about the risk of excessive sun exposure and to encourage awareness-raising efforts to prevent increased incidence of skin cancer caused by excessive sun exposure. Being sunburned is dangerous, but we also have to take into account that it is not sunlight or solarium itself that is dangerous. In fact, we're totally dependent on a certain amount of sun. I would like to point out what cancer researchers and professor emeritus at the Radium Hospital and the University of Oslo, Johan Moan, have said: ‘The Council that you should stay away from solarium is upresis health information.’ And on the other hand, ‘Using solarium in moderate doses results in a high level of vitamin D. It is beneficial in winter when UVB rays do not give vitamin D here in Norway. [[...]] They should also know that moderate, even sunlight can increase our life span." So Soling, even in solarium, gives us vitamin D, which is important to strengthen the bone structure and to prevent a number of diseases, such as cardiovascular disease, diabetes, arthritis, etc. But too much sunning is dangerous, in the same way as very much other, whether it's outdoors or in a solarium. Therefore, the government is in full swing with its own strategy to prevent just skin cancer. I am also pleased that a large majority clarify that the requirement of competence and the requirement to pass a solar test shall not apply to all employees of a business that hires out sun loungers. It would seem that we should instruct all the employees here on the Stortinget and in the party groups to take the solarium test only because they are in contact with those who want to take advantage of the suns that stand here on the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e406	I had to take the floor to comment on some of the Central Party's representatives Kjersti Toppe's achievements in saying that solarium is a carcinogen. So it's not the solarium that's carcinogenic – it's excessive sunning without protection. I want to ask the representative Toppe if she admits that someone actually has good use of solarium for medical reasons. Several dermatologists refer patients with eczema to the use of solarium. For large periods of the year there is no sun in parts of this country, and many of those living there will benefit from using solarium in moderate quantities to gain access to vitamin D. I find it sad that the Central Party in Stortinget believes that solarium is a carcinogen, and the whole debate on solarium advertising is a direct derailment of what is the issue here. The issue in Norway today is that skin cancer is too widespread a problem. So advertising against solarium doesn't solve that problem. I further read in the Committee's comment that the Workers' Party has also explained that fees should be assessed. Without making concrete proposals in the matter, it is understood that when the government submits this strategy to the Stortinget at a later stage, it is to be expected that the Workers' Party will also want to introduce new taxes. I would like to end this debate by saying that this is a purely symbolic policy. It is a derailment of the facts of the matter, and I look forward to the government's work further. If the Stortinget decides here today that a ban on advertising should be investigated, the government must of course do so, and I find that sad.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e417	What we are talking about today is a major health problem for younger and younger patients and for a larger and larger group. It's not about the individuals who get medical referral because they need to take solarium. We're talking about a large part of the Norwegian population. Younger and younger people get birthmarks, younger and younger people lose years of life, and younger and younger people are subjected to extensive and demanding treatment. That we in this room do not then take into account that young people are also influenced by advertising, I think almost sad. If we're going to achieve this goal, we're going to have to go out wide. I fully agree with the Council of State on this. But neither must we close our eyes because advertising is actually one of the things that especially affects young people. Health services use different types of light for different types of skin diseases. Solarium is just a tiny bit of what's being used in health. It's the abuse of solarium and the abuse of being too long in the sun we're talking about here. I believe that the Storting should take it seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e427	I would like to thank you for the debate on the matter, and I would like to end by saying that I am pleased that the Minister for Public Health of the Progress Party assures that she will investigate a ban on advertising solarium, despite the fact that her party traps in the Chamber say the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e432	The representative Bruun-Gundersen wanted to answer how I could say that solarium was a carcinogen. The World Health Organisation classifies its cancer research institute solarium that gives off UV radiation, as a carcinogen for humans, and that is the highest cancer risk level. It came out in 2010. I don't know if the Progress Party knows more than these. I'll stick to it. In addition, state radiation protection has also said when they recommend a ban on advertising, that they think it is wrong to advertise something that could be carcinogenic. For this reason, dermatologics refer people to solarium: I happen to be married to a dermatologist, and I don't think he's completely united in it. They get light treatment – there are other rays. I'm a little startled when I hear that being said from this pulpit. One must know what one is talking about in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e439	The representative Åshild Bruun-Gundersen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e444	It might not be necessary to clarify this, but it is clear that if the Stortinget decides to ask the government to impose a ban on advertising against solarium, the government must do so. After the government has reduced a sample to reflect the strategy for the prevention of skin cancer and some in this sample present the study on the ban on advertising of solarium, the government has to do so. It is not the same as the government concluding on the question, but the Progress Party Group can definitely conclude on this issue. These are the parliamentary rules. So I just want to follow up on the representative Kjersti Top of the Center Party, who has not yet been able to take on the fact that there are actually people who have good use of solarium, and that solarium in moderate quantities is not dangerous. It's excessive sunning without protection that's the biggest problem. Putting the blame on solarium for skin cancer statistics in Norway seems to me to be sought, but we are no longer coming into this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e451	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e467	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e476	In this proposition, the government proposes to remove the obligation under the law that hospitals should be publicly approved. At the same time, it is proposed to provide the Ministry with access to requirements for approval of specialised services and works. In addition, it is proposed to extend access to the authorisation requirement to cover all activities, not just health institutions. In Norway it has been a long tradition to demand that hospitals be publicly approved. A liquidation would have been settled and evaluated several times before. The government believes that today's system does not work as intended, and shows, among other things, to ensure that the introduction of health law now allows the State to control public hospitals through its ownership. The majority of hearing aids support legal changes. It also does the multiples in the committee. I argued that the parties that supported this setting should do something about it in their articles. In the setting, the Central Party and SV oppose the proposal. The centre party believes that today's management should not be decommissioned, but changed. We think it needs to be changed so that it also applies to other activities, and not just to those who offer daily treatment. We are concerned that the possibility in the law that is still in place to require approval will be weakened when the condition for this is changed. One shall no longer be able to make use of authorisation on the basis of social and professional considerations. We fear that failure to grant approval may lead to an increase in the number of private operators competing for financial resources, such as: Health Bergen wrote in his hearing statement. The introduction of free treatment options also implies that the authorisation system is important to continue. The authorisation system is a special tool to ensure fair distribution of health services, geographical distribution and public health services access to personnel. In Saga, the Department wrote: ‘As long as a sufficient number of doctors and other health professionals are trained, other personnel measures will be relevant to the public’s provision of the health professionals for whom it is needed.’ [[...]] But we already know that we already have a competition for health professionals. It's barely about health professionals in Norway. I propose the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party's proposals. We're in doubt when the foundation to take it away is that there are other ways where one ensures that it's defensive. At the same time, one should have a prescription, just for patient safety and quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e498	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e503	The Labour Party points out that the background to this proposition is to have more appropriate regulation of healthcare in both the private and public sectors. Advanced treatment is currently being carried out in a number of establishments without necessarily including overnight accommodation at the bedside, as today’s hospital approval scheme requires. Today’s approval schemes were put in place before the state took over responsibility for hospitals and specialist health services on 1 January 2002. Since then, governance structures and follow-up have changed considerably, and the Ministry uses enterprise meetings and mission documents for regional health companies to achieve better quality and patient safety objectives in hospitals. The proposal to remove the ban has been examined and evaluated in several ways in the past. In the course of this consultation, the majority of the hearing bodies say that they share the Ministry's assessment that the current system of hospital approval no longer works as intended. The authorisation requirement is therefore removed, but at the same time it is proposed to extend access to the regulation to require authorisation to cover all specialist healthcare establishments, not only health institutions. This has been widely supported in the consultation round. The Norwegian Nursing Association takes note in its consultation response that the conditions for requiring approval in the new first subparagraph are more limited than the original wording, ‘social or professional considerations’, and that for narrow demarcation, there could be a weakening of overall political governance. This is reflected in the proposal by the Workers' Party in this matter. We believe that social or professional considerations are also legitimate reasons that can justify the establishment of new authorisation schemes. Restricting the provision to only quality, patient safety, safety or emergency concerns will not be able to meet potential future health challenges, such as: the general lack of health professionals or the objective of equivalent services throughout the country. We propose that social and professional considerations be added to the list of considerations that can justify the Ministry’s being able to provide for requirements for the approval of businesses and healthcare in Section 4-1. With that, I take up the proposal for the Workers' Party, and at the same time I would like to inform you that we will vote subsidiaryly for the vote if our proposal falls.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e516	The representative Tuva Moflag has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e521	The Government proposes to remove the requirement in the Special Health Service Act that hospitals should be officially approved. We in the Right and the rest of the government fraction agree and believe that today's hospital approval is neither an effective nor proportionate instrument to ensure quality of service and professional health care. For patients, it would be better for service providers to be assessed on the basis of up-to-date quality information rather than on the basis of a one-off grant of public hospital approval. A public hospital approval is of little value. It is the ongoing supervisory work and the inherent quality of the individual institution and hospital that matters to patients. We want the most appropriate regulation of healthcare, both in the private and public sectors. The current hospital approval scheme does not work as intended. There are other and more appropriate measures and instruments that can contribute to continuous quality work in the specialist health service than the current approval system. This scheme should contribute to or ensure the rational use of the overall health resources, contribute to or ensure the quality of public service provision and promote the equitable distribution of health services and professional health care. However, developments have contributed to the fact that the current approval system is no longer a suitable means of steering precisely those objectives. That's why we want to change this. The State can direct its hospitals in its own dialogue with its owners, and we have several tools that are better suited to contribute to the health and quality of the specialist health service. In addition, both the Ministry and the Committee agree that the hospital authorisation has not in practice acted as a means of steering to ensure a fair geographical distribution of the specialist health service. Although the current hospital authorisation is terminated, there may be a need to maintain access to require authorisation where the quality of the service provision, patient safety, social security and preparedness so warrant. We are therefore opening today so that the Ministry may require the approval of establishments which are not defined as institutions. It is a clear improvement that smaller clinics, both in the public and private sectors, and other specialist healthcare establishments, may be subject to an authorisation scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e532	A number of hearing bodies have expressed their views on this matter and are concerned that the lapse of the authorisation system could lead to an increase in the number of private operators competing for financial resources. The SV's position is that where approved hospitals are located and operated, and what type of hospitals are approved, must be governed by the public, who spends money on this offer. It is also important if we are to continue a free treatment choice. We have heard this autumn that Norway lacks 6,000 nurses, and Nordland lacks 600. As was said from this pulpit a moment ago, nurses are scarce, and SV's concern is what this will have to do with recruiting qualified personnel for the districts. All the experience shows that when opening up freedom of establishment, the establishment takes place in key directions, and the SV's position is that we should have an equivalent health service throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e539	The current legislative proposal by Stortinget will allow the Ministry to set up new authorisation schemes where the quality of service, patient safety, social security or preparedness so warrants. In the future, situations may arise in which authorities should be able to impose requirements on establishments providing specialist health services in order to ensure these important considerations. Considerations that can justify the establishment of new authorisation schemes are widely welcomed in order to safeguard the interests of both the patient and society. The legislative proposal will improve the existing provision. An improvement is that the Ministry may require regulatory approval also for establishments not defined as health institutions. This means that any new authorisation schemes, including: could include large health establishments, smaller clinics, in both the public and private sectors, and other specialist healthcare establishments. Another improvement is the removal of the requirement in the Special Health Service Act that hospitals should be officially approved. Today's hospital approval system has played its part. The scheme is neither effective nor proportionate in means of ensuring quality of service provision and professional health care. The removal of the directive on hospital authorisation does not imply that the Authority imposes less requirements on the services to be provided by hospitals. Professional soundness is required regardless of whether or not the establishment needs an authorisation. It is a fundamental obligation for all healthcare providers in the specialist health service, both public and private. I would like to make it clear that any proposals for the establishment of new authorisation schemes must first be heard publicly. The members of the Committee from the Working Party are concerned that consideration of the quality, patient safety, social security or preparedness of the service will not be adequate for potential challenges in healthcare in the future. To that I would say: to the extent that poor access to health professionals or other matters threatens these reasons, there may be grounds for establishing new authorisation schemes. The assumption is that the establishment of a new approval system will be a relevant tool for remedying the problem(s) concerned. The approval system already established on the basis of the second paragraph of Section 4-1 of the Special Health Service Act today shall be continued. The approval for the use of the term ‘university hospital’ will continue to exist. Subject to the Bill of the Storting, I intend to implement it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e552	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e557	Health Bergen writes in his hearing that they fear that failure to approve will lead to an increase in private operators that will compete for financial resources. There are also some hearing bodies that react to the removal of the condition of social or professional concern in what is to become the new condition to prescribe the possibility of setting such an authorisation requirement. In the proposition, the government writes that, as long as it is sufficiently extended to other health professionals, there will be other measures that have an impact on the need for public health professionals. Is it the case that the Council of State is fully confident that when a removes this obligation for authorisation, there will be no consequences for the potential of the public to recruit the health professionals they need?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e565	What will regulate the extent of the private sector is the arrangements we have for financing private offerings under the government. Hospitals will assess this when issuing tenders. In the system of free choice of treatment, consideration is also given to the professional environments of public hospitals as part of the evaluation that is carried out in the context of looking at which treatments are to be included in that scheme, so that we have a number of other instruments in this area. However, in the proposal we also provide a basis for creating new authorisation schemes. If access to healthcare professionals becomes a critical factor in this, it could be one of the reasons for introducing a new authorisation scheme, if any, but in the present situation, we do not consider that it is necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e570	I'm recording that the council thinks there's no need for that right now. I think that there are quite a number of health professionals, among others. in the north, with major recruitment challenges today. But it is positive that he does not close the door to the need for a mandatory approval system. I have a question, because as I understand the regulation when it concerns the possibility of setting authorisation requirements – what time does the Council of State see it going on? What are the circumstances in which it can be used? I think that this is going to be very uncertain, and that one might experience it as a system that can be difficult to do. I'm also afraid that this is going to become a rule that actually never has any consequence, once you've gone away from the rule that's been until now.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e577	The rule that has existed now, as we tell you in the proposition, has really no function anymore, so at least there's no reason to worry about it disappearing. One of the benefits of an improved system through a new regulation will be that it could also include activities that are not defined as health institutions — not just as institutions that have overnight stays. But if we're going to make such a regulation, it's going to take ordinary regulatory work, and it's going to go to the hearing. There will be comments and objections, if any, to the issues raised by the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e582	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e600	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e609	Since the rapporteur is not here, I will first present the position of the Health and Care Committee. At the same time, I also deal with the proposals of which the Workers' Party is part. Tooth health is more than teeth. Dental health is also about physical and mental health. If physical or mental health fails, we have a system in Norway where the community stands up for one. If dental health fails, we only have it to a limited extent. There are significant differences in the use of dental services based on education and income. Often it's those who need it the most, who use the dentist the least, and too many it's about economics. That is why, in the Labour Party, we have promoted this proposal for a representative to strengthen dental health, especially for those who need it most. This government is about to cut 400 million. kr in the support of dental health. Then it goes in the wrong direction. For 2019 they will cut over 50 million. In spite of the fact that they have said in their own government statement that they will gradually extend the arrangements, and despite the fact that they are in association with, among other things. in the Workers' Party on the following remark in this case: ‘It is those who need the most to get better follow-up and stronger rights, and that this is important in order to balance social differences in health. [[...]] The majority point to the need to further develop dental care and gradually extend the screening systems. This is necessary to prevent and treat dental problems, in particular for vulnerable groups.» The working party is ready to work for the teeth. We seal the holes Höie has created in the dental field in his budget proposal. We say no to cuts in the reimbursement benefits, we say no to cuts for those who need dental regulation. At the same time, we say it's time to extend the free dental system to those who are 19 and 20 years old. Number shows that 68 pst. between the age of 3 and 18 years was investigated by the County Dental Service in 2017. For the 19- and 20-year-olds, the proportion fell to only 42 pst. I think an important reason is that you have to start paying yourself when you're 19, and many 19-year-olds don't have a very good economy. At the same time, we should consider further extensions to public dental care in the future. We do so in the Labour Party in this case. We're asking for an overall review to smooth out social inequalities in dental health. We point to the injustices of some children having parents who can't afford to pay the bills for the children who need dental regulation. We ask the government to consider better help for those with cancer diagnosis and cancer survivors who get challenges in the oral cavity. And we are asking for an investigation into a price cap for dental treatments that are partially refunded by the public. The last thing is strange that the government doesn't support us in, when they at the same time in the state budget complain that an increase in the reimbursement rates would only mean that the dentists paid better. I'm glad that we get a majority in some committee remarks, but I'm sorry that the government doesn't share in lifting dental health as an important political issue. It's basically saddened by those who most of all needed society to do a little better for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e629	The representative, Tellef Inge Mørland, has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e634	I am not quite sure if all that the Labour Party representative said is to be found in the Workers' Party's alternative budget, but we can come back to that in the budget debate. When it comes to dental exposure, I think we share it, and the government has already started a job. The size has even decided that there is a job to be done here, and the government is doing it. That is also why we are not involved in any of the proposals. I want to thank you for the joint commitment we have for dental care. Much of what the proposers address is things that we agree on, and a lot of these are things that are going on. Then you can add aside the swollen whales and rather go into reality. There are many points of agreement in the setting. We agree that there are those who need the most, who need better follow-up and stronger rights, and that this is important in order to balance social differences in health. We agree that it is necessary to further develop dental care and gradually extend the protective systems – this is necessary to prevent and treat dental problems, especially for the most vulnerable groups. We agree that drug addicts who receive institutional appropriations for more than three months may not be able to complete the necessary dental treatment until they are outsourced by the institution, and that this is a group that should be given a special right to have this treatment completed – as part of the necessary rehabilitation. People with poor health often have poor dental health. Many people who are mentally struggling or have drug problems are reluctant to go to a dentist. To strengthen the dental field, the most vulnerable, those with the least resources and those with the worst health, are to be given priority. There are no new, broad general schemes that help these best. In Norway, with today's system, we have a good dental health. It is not true that the public does not contribute to dental treatment, but the contributions are largely reserved for the youngest, the weakest and the elderly who need care services, as well as general support schemes for various other conditions and interventions, such as dental regulation and jaw surgery. We have already decided that priorities in the dental field should be included in the mandate of the sample, which looks at priorities in municipal health and care services. Their conclusions will be delivered very soon. It seems illogical that the Storting should draw its conclusions before the prioritisation committee has come up with its assessments. In the follow-up to this sample, we will look at responses to social inequalities in dental health, the social welfare systems of the population to dental treatment and the question of possibly extending the responsibility for public dental care. I would like to thank you for constructive cooperation on the dental field, and I look forward to the continuation of a better dental health in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e653	This is a very important and interesting matter. Toothball concerns us all – we all have teeth, and we've all been to the dentist. At the same time, the matter has a very important principleal side, and that's perhaps the one I'm most concerned with. We agree with the intention. We believe that the role of the public in Norwegian dentistry should be strengthened. We've put in our alternative budget nearly 800 million. kr for the strengthening of the public dental system. We also believe that no one should pay more than NOK 2,500 for a dental visit. We also, of course, support the Workers' Party's intention here – to strengthen prevention and to do something about the social and economic inequality that today's system is all about. But this isn't just about economics, about government costs and about reimbursement schemes; it's also about the principle and about the concept of health, so to speak. Why should it be that a broken finger gets a covered through the public, but not a broken tooth, and that the fixed one can remove a wart, but that one must pay for rooting? Why should it be that one can get covered treatment for a mental state, a depression, but not for the plumbing of a tooth? Where does the border between public and private go, and where does the boundary of public engagement go? It might be the most important debate in this. The health system in Norway is that we have a principle that the community should take responsibility for people’s health. It's some sort of scheme of work. I pay taxes for you to get a good health, and I also accept that my tax money goes to your health damage, even if it's self-inflicted. Then I see that the majority does not support the Workers' Party's proposal to expand the role of the public. Although the representative of Stensland expresses agreement, I can't help noticing that he agrees that a wider dental system must be in line with the rest of the health system. It is not reflected in the setting. I read from the statement that the majority rejects – so to speak – that teeth should be part of public health, but without giving a fundamental reason why a broken finger should be covered by the public, but not a broken tooth. This becomes a little outside-body experience: why is it that a representative of a government party doesn't define teeth as part of the body, and almost makes this a little artificial distinction? Then I just want to inform you that there is a very small error in the setting. SV supports the proposals No. 5-8.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e674	Norwegian dentistry has had a positive development and is getting better and better. The number of children with holes in their teeth has dropped year by year. I'm glad, and this is a trend that's not going to turn around. So we have a lot to be proud of, but that's of course a lot we have to work with. Good dental care must be available to all, including those who are struggling financially. Year-on-year surveys show a link between good dental health and socio-economic factors. Geography is also recorded – there are differences in dental health according to where you live in the country. Both high education and high income have a direct impact on people’s dental health. It is better for them than for those who depend on different social security schemes. We need to use public funds to reduce social disparities and ensure a level playing field across the country. Access to good dental services also for vulnerable groups should and must therefore be prioritised. We have good screening systems in Norway, but these schemes do not include all those who have difficulty paying for dental treatment. It is therefore the wish of the Left that people with a weak economy should receive support for dental treatment and that more people should receive support for major and costly interventions. That's why there's a need to review the reimbursement schemes, but it's already done in the Health Directorate. For the Left, there is a desire to include more and introduce a high-cost protection. This is a work that also continues in the government. Much of the Left's policy is reflected in the Jeløya platform, where the government has just promised to further develop the dental services and gradually extend the protection systems. Efforts to prevent dental problems, especially for weak groups, should therefore be stepped up and the government is in the process of doing so. Such a group is addicted to addiction. I am pleased that a majority here today agree with the Left that drug addicts in institutions should complete the necessary dental treatment they are doing, even if they are outsourced from the institution. This is in line with what we think about health: there should be holistic treatment processes and good cooperation across borders. For addicts, complete dental treatment is often an important part of rehabilitation, so this is very important. We must not forget the follow-up in the municipalities. This is where we need to take preventive action – preventing and teaching children good habits early. It is therefore good to strengthen primary health services and focus on public health. This work must be done in each municipality. I'm glad the government has an alert eye on this. Thus, proposals are being made to strengthen the prevention of good dental health, to review dental reimbursement schemes, to make more proposals to help those who do not currently have a financial opportunity to carry out the necessary dental treatment, and to improve and simplify the systems. It is easy to resort to metaphors in this field, as the representative of Morland suggested when he asked the Health Minister to close the holes. I must be allowed to call this proposal somewhat toothless.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e695	Often, bad dental health is associated with somatic disorders, but it is also such that bad dental health can lead to somatic disorders. And often bad dental health is associated with social status. The Christian People's Party is concerned about and has a goal of smoothing social inequality within dentistry, not least for all those who need it most. That is why the Christian People's Party will be involved in a proposal that we have not included, and that is proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e702	Dental health is also important in nutrition for older people. We know that getting enough nutrition is a challenge for many, and then it's clear that having teeth that work, and that's the freshest possible, is important to maintain that part. Older people in Norway today have rights to receive home care or live in a nursing home, but what you can see from the figures is that very few people use the rights they have. Of course, it might be because you want to go to the dentist that you've had for a lot of years, and that you know and have a good relationship with, but I think it might also be because many people don't know that they have rights to dental treatment when you get into such a situation. That is why the Advance Party is concerned that we need to inform better those who actually have dental rights. It is a responsibility of the municipalities, and of course of the county municipalities, which are responsible for providing these services. Now it's also the case that the people who live in a nursing home are getting sicker and sicker. From my time in Oslo, you had dental clinics in some nursing homes. Of course, it made it easy for those who lived there to get treatment according to their needs. I think that in the future you might be able to think more about how it is possible to move dentists out to patients, where they are, for example. residents in nursing homes. It's not like those who live in nursing homes necessarily go to the doctor; you have nursing doctors to follow them up. Similarly, I believe that you need to think more about the fact that dentists should also go out to help the elderly. I hope that this is something the government can bring up with KS, because I think it needs to do a better job in this area, to make sure that older people have teeth.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e715	Good dental health should not depend on the size of the wallet, but unfortunately it is in Norway today. One in three Nordics has dropped the dentist for financial reasons. One of them is Mette Helen Sivertsen. She told the media a short time ago that she lacked eleven teeth and had to chew the food on the gum. She has not been able to afford to go to the dentist and has therefore pulled one tooth and one tooth as problems have arisen. In our view, there is no logical or medical reason why the teeth should not be treated as part of the body. Damage and disease of the teeth and oral cavity may be debilitating. This, as others have pointed out, can lead to a lack of nutrition and enough food. It can be dangerous for people not to have a good dental health, and then the teeth should also be considered part of the body. Today, this is a gaping hole in the welfare state, which must be sealed. Red supports any proposal to strengthen Norwegian dentistry with the aim of balancing classrooms, proposals to investigate the price caps for dental treatment and also the extension of public dental services, where we include several groups. We're going to support a lot of proposals that lie in the matter, but at the end of the day, this is a matter of money, which is very much different. That's why in our alternative state budget we put a total of three billion. kr to a power roof in the direction of free dental health. We will vote in favour of any proposal that includes new groups in public dentistry. We believe in principle that a dental lift must benefit everyone and not just provide support based on diagnosis or economic vulnerability. We also want to make sure that money allocated to dental care, does not end up as a private super-profit for anyone. To ensure that the money does not go to increased profits in private clinics, a price cap is needed in the reimbursement scheme for what clinics can pay. The important thing for us is to make sure that good dental health does not depend on the size of the wallet. Then a force is needed in the direction that the teeth are also considered part of the body.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e731	The Central Party supports the Workers' Party's proposal for a case on strengthening Norwegian dental health in order to mitigate social inequalities, which will deal with both preventive services, reimbursement schemes and better assistance to those who do not currently have a financial opportunity to have the necessary dental treatment carried out under public law. I am occupied with the groups that are currently entitled to dental treatment, as they are the elderly. Only 23 pst. by elderly people with home care who have a right, have been examined and treated. It's too bad. So at least we can start with the groups that have a right today, so that they get what they're entitled to. I want to record two other relationships. One is our proposal, which has at least been supported by the Labour Party in the election, to promote measures to reduce antibiotic resistance in Norwegian dental services and measures to prevent developments with increased use of dental treatment in countries with a high risk of spreading resistant bacteria. I could hope that there were several parties who saw the value of that proposal, because this is something that increases and increases. We know that tooth tourism is something that is in time. It's called a crop niche, and we see marketing both online and in newspapers. There are dental tour operators who order everything, arrange everything from flight ticket to hotel and order from dentist. What they come back to Norway is usually antibiotic-resistant bacteria and complications that the public here needs to take. The second thing I want to mention is the regional competence centres, which we also have a proposal with the Labour Party about, which I think should be able to get multiples. We are asking for a review of the functioning of the Centre and for the purpose of decentralised services and strengthening county responsibility for equal access to specialist health services throughout the country. For example, the Dental Competence Centre of East Vareta shall decentralise dental services for Hedmark, Oppland and Østfold. The center is on Majorstua. There's something that doesn't rhyme. The competence centre for decentralised specialist dental services for Sogn and Fjordane and Hordaland is located right next to the University of Bergen. There is something about the location of any of these centres of competence. Something works well, but not all. We also need to look at funding, because funding has been double since 2014, while a cut in other supplies. So I hope that more people can evaluate those suggestions, and that we can get such a review.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e740	Persons with poor health also like to have poor dental health. Social inequality we look at in many areas. In health, it is most visible through systematic differences in life expectancy and morbidity. In dentistry, we see differences in the use of dental care as well as in the dental condition of the individual. I have registered that the Committee is impatient in terms of policy development in the field of dental health. Opposition lots are extra impatient. It was a unanimous increase in the number of priorities in the field of dentistry to be included in the mandate of the sample, which looks at priorities in the municipal health and care services, and which is due to deliver its investigation in December. I believe that most of the proposals that have been promoted belong to the follow-up to the forthcoming investigation. Follow-up to the proposals of the priority committee will include evaluations and current proposals on social inequalities in dental health, the social welfare systems of the public at large for dental treatment and questions on the possible extension of the population for which the public dentistry is to be responsible. In this context, issues of ownership or price caps will also need to be assessed. In other words, there is a need for a broad review of the field. Prevention and health promotion are key to good dental health. It is the county and the municipality that are responsible for public health work. Measures that have a health promotion and preventive effect on dental health are the same as those that have an effect on the response to so-called non-infectious diseases. It is therefore important that we coordinate efforts in these areas. I see that the minority from the Workers' Party and the Center Party are proposing to assess measures against dentists who choose not to use the electronic price portal, which is the most expensive.no. In the same way as for other commercial activities, dental practitioners also have to comply with the provisions of the price information regulation. It is the Consumer Protection Authority that is the supervisory body, and that is where you can turn. It also applies to dentists who practice social benefits from popular health. I very much appreciate the Storting's commitment to the dental field. Through the comitology of the proposal for a representative, I have got a good idea of what the Storting expects as a minimum of issues in the follow-up to the NOU and its consultation. The NOU comes as I said in December.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e755	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e760	Some new notes came from the Council of State in terms of price caps during the post he had now. But it is the case that the Workers' Party has already made a careful proposal in this case to seek out price caps for dental services that are wholly or partly refunded by the public. To the NRK, Højres health policy spokesman, Sveinung Stensland, said in April about dental regulation: ‘We need a clean-up, and I think it has to put in place an agreement between the Dental Association and the State in order to get the prices regulated.’ So I understand that the government's work has stopped very much, given the work of the prioritisation committee, but I still wonder: Why does the government not always support the Labour Party's proposal for a price cap when the government itself in the government budget justifies its underregulation of support that it would only drive up the prices for dental treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e772	It's because we're very concerned that once we've started an investigation on primary health priorities and have given them a clear job on the dental field, in line with the Storting decision, it's a good idea to wait for that NOU and its hearing before we start to conclude on the instruments. But of course, we want price developments in this area to be held back. This is also one of the reasons why we have proposed not to adjust prices in line with price developments, because it is one of the instruments that we can use in this area. I record that the Workers' Party produces what is cut on dental health, but it is not, of course, an instrument that actually contributes to keeping the dental costs of the population down in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e779	In fact, they have now checked that claim for cuts, and they have done well for it, although I know that there is more money being spent today than you did for some years back in the dental field in general. After all, the Dental Association does not agree with the description of prices given by Höie. But what's interesting is that Höie always refers to the prioritisation committee, but still implements not insignificant cuts in this budget, over 50 million. kr, in the case of dental health, and then completely independent of the prioritisation committee. Carl-Erik Grimstad showed during his post to the Jeløya Declaration, where the government says that one will "gradually extend the shielding arrangements". In this budget, the TOO bet is raised by 10 million. NOK, and that's good, but it doesn't help much when you cut with about 60 million. kr in the next round. My question to the government council will then be: Can we expect a change of pace from the government, with a greater effort in the dental field at the moment when the prioritisation committee is ready?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e790	We're going to look at what the sample proposes. But I do not agree with the presentation that the representative here gives. Since 2013, the government has further developed the dental services and gradually extended the protection system with a total of approximately 190 million. It is also in line with government policy now. We have introduced a new social welfare scheme for people who are toothless in the lower jaw, and we have also increased different rates for e.g. persons with extensive oral dryness. We have introduced – and not least increased the appropriations for – an offer, a free quote, under the authority of the county council for people with odontophobia and those who have experienced torture and abuse. So the expansion of protective systems has been gradual, while we have not removed any of the social welfare systems of popular fear during this period. What the representative makes as a cut is reasonable cost management with this sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e795	In my post, I brought up the regional experts, the odontological centres of competence, and our proposal to get a review of these centres to see if they achieve their objectives, among other things. decentralised specialist dental services. I point out that the centre to provide uppland, Hedmark and Østfold is located in the Majorstudio. In Hordaland and Sogn and Fjordane are located right next to the odontological institute. I also see from the answers to questions I have sent to Stortinget that the funds have been double since 2014, and that half go to research, i.e. in competition with universities – it may look like – in those places where they are close. My question is: will the Council of State take a positive view of the review of this scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e802	I feel that the regional centres of expertise have contributed very positively to the quality, recruitment and professional development of the county dental service. I do not agree with a premise that this is in competition with the universities and their offers. In other areas, we see it as positive that research and quality development are taking place under the direction of the service. When research is carried out in hospitals, it is not that we produce it as if it is in competition with research carried out at universities. I am not involved in building up the conflict that has unfortunately been between some of the environments of the universities and the regional centres of expertise. I feel that they have had a positive impact on the development of the service.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e807	Thanks for the answer. I have a follow-up question, it's about where they're located in cities. I think that when the purpose is to decentralize the services, I think it's quite unnatural that Hedmark and Uppland go to the Major Hospital to have their specialist health services decentralised. If one ignores the other that concerns the competence centers, and looks at the exact location: Can't the Council of State see that it can seem unreasonably in any of the places I've been called?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e816	We can always have views on location, it's some of our specialty as politicians, but in this particular area, it's the county councils that own the centres, and they're the owners who are responsible for deciding these questions. This means that there may well be different reasons why the county councils that own the centre here in the East have landed at that location. One should not ignore that e.g. The Municipality of Oslo and the Municipality of Oslo have had quite strong views on this. But I understand that when this is a question left to the county councils and the new regions, it's a good idea that the politicians are there to make that kind of decisions, and that we in government or the Storting are not trying to override it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e822	Thank you to the Council of State. I heard that he met the proposers to look at new possibilities for using the public service offer in dental care. But I still do not get the basic reason why a traditional system is to be maintained that teeth should not essentially be part of the public health service. This is today only to a limited extent. So I very much want the Council of State to try to explain the logic that bad teeth people have to pay for themselves, while a broken finger gets you covered for the treatment of.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e827	I do not fully agree with the manufacturing where one defines dental health based on what is public responsibility in Norway. I feel that we also have a public responsibility for dental health in Norway. Although very much of the dental service is provided by private actors, it is a combination of public and private actors. What's a political question is the scope of the shielding systems that we have. I guess that's about 14 pst. of the adult population, there are different types of reimbursement for dental health. So the question we have to ask ourselves as politicians is, if there's an area of health that we want to spend more money on, where are we going to get the most health out of those heads? If we compare ourselves with other countries, for example. Sweden, which has much wider protective systems on dental health, has a lot to suggest that they have an equal proportion of adults who do not use dental care because of their finances. So it doesn't look like it has the effect that the representative wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e834	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e841	We have a good piece left to go to the dental field. We do not fix it overnight, but I believe that this proposal, promoted by the Workers' Party, is a step in the right direction. And I'm really glad that we're together on the description, that there are differences in dental health that also contribute to social inequality, and that we're also concerned about the situation of the elderly, that too few people get to cover dental services from the public when they're entitled to home care, or that it's unfair when medical dispensers decide whether you get it or not, because it's been digitized – whether we can call it that. I am also pleased that we agree that we agree on the situation of drug addicts and that we should see whether they can better complete the treatment they receive. That could be the difference between whether they succeed in their rehabilitation course or not. So it was that Stensland from the Right made a rather flaming contribution against me as a representative. He was not sure if everything I said was to be found in the Workers' Party's alternative budget, and he also asked that one should add aside the tumultuous elections. I hope that I know the Workers' Party's alternative budget better than Stensland, and in this way I can tell you that in the Workers' Party's alternative budget, there are more than 120 million. kr more to bet on dental health than the government provided. For me, it's far more than tumultuous elections; for me, it's real bet, it's real policy. On the other hand, there is a danger that the government’s platform in terms of dental health may end up as a swollen word if the government does not soon start delivering in the field. Carl-Erik Grimstad called the proposal Arbeiderpartiet has gone for, somewhat toothless. I would rather look at what Carl-Erik Grimstad has done in this matter. So Grimstad has not dared to put his teeth in one of the suggestions that have been made here. It must mean that, after all, it was too hard a diet for him and the Left. We still have some disagreements about how strongly we're going to bet on the dental field. There's no doubt about it. But if this debate can contribute to the awakening of government parties, we have achieved something. Nothing would please me more than if we now, after five years, got a change of pace from the government in the dental field, saying that we should do better for those who need it the most, and that also applies to those who have the biggest challenges, the worst economy, in the dental field.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e856	First of all, SV responds to our agreement. What I took up from consensus points were those committee remarks where there was complete agreement. As the representative of Mørland was inside, here we agree a lot. I also want to say, even though the Council of State may not like it so well, that I am inclined to give Kjersti Toppe right in one thing, that there is reason to look at the regional centres of competence. If we're going to have a full review and an investigation, I'm not sure. There may be reasons why they might not work anywhere after intention, but that doesn't mean we need a full review and investigation of it. But I'm going to stretch so far as to say that Kjersti Toppe is in the middle of something. [[Laughter]] So to the Workers' Party, it was said that we had cut 400 million. on the dental field. I think that's quite healthy, when one at the same time sees that from 2013 to 2017, the public payments to dental health have increased by 481 million. So kr, that's close to half a billion. That's where I think it'll be a bit violent to listen to. In the case of the large bet of the Workers' Party, it is approx. 60 million. kr that goes to a free dentist for everyone – up to the age of 20. Then it's 23.6 million. NOK 13,1 million. kr until you don't want to underregulate tariffs – that's a big concern for your dental level – and then it's 25 million. kr to reverse the winding-up of tariff 604f. That is, as the representative himself points out, 120 million. kr. Then I think there's a much bigger connection between words and action from the Red Party, but there we can start discussing the invasion, because they've added 3 billion. kr on the table, and even that is not enough to get a general dental system in place. To this about the teeth is part of the body: of course they are, and neither is it that the public has no responsibility. They have a great responsibility, we have our own county dentistry system and have to use large sums through it. So that's it. Once again, I would like to thank you for a good debate. I would also like to thank you for agreeing on a lot, but I think it makes sense, once the Storting has first asked for its own priority committee for just this, to wait for the conclusions from there, as the Council of State now confirms, to come in December, before we take the debate further.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e867	The representative Tellef Inge Mørland has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e872	As for my mention of the government's cut, it might have been better for the government if I had called it tightening, because that's what they, after all, have called it in their budget proposals. But for me, tightening is also cut, even though I am aware that today, overall, more money is being allocated in the dental field than it was a few years ago. However, this applies in almost all of the fields that we're dealing with here at Stortinget. Then Stensland is concerned that I should be caring for the dentist. Yes, they're going to be fine, but now it's primarily for patients with bad advice that makes us not want to weaken the social welfare systems that we have. Then it might be okay if Stensland gets the proposal we have to find a price cap, which he himself made in April, because then he would at least be able to eliminate the concern that it only goes to the dentists. I urge Stensland to vote in favour of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party's proposal to investigate a price cap in this matter, so he can do away with that concern in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e879	The representative Sveinung Stensland has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e884	As far as price caps are concerned, the representative of Morland is right that I have arranged for an agreement between the state, the dentists and the counties to look at the cost level, but we do not need an investigation to get to that. Then we need what we have done on the permanent side, namely good cooperation between the professions, between the association and the public. So it's about the way to the goal. But I would like to thank Morland for constantly making my performances in the media – it's always nice. In the case of the dental profession, the reasons given by the Department for why an underregulator are underregulated are precisely that it can be price driven. Producing it as a cut for the patients is directly wrong, so there we are simply disagreeing. But otherwise we agree a lot on this matter – I can hear that.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e891	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e907	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that – within the allocated speaking time – up to five rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e916	The proposers consider that a national lift is necessary in order to increase the capacity, competence and quality of the emergency chain. Meeting acute illness and harm as early as possible, enabling diagnostic treatment and rapid transport to the right level of healthcare, both life-saving and limiting patients’ functional loss, thus ensuring better health. In the emergency chain, the quality of the ambulance service, the response time, the boat ambulance where it is necessary due to the topography, and the air ambulance that is developed throughout the country are necessary to provide good and proper health care. It is precisely on this background that I believe that by bringing the hospital out in the future to where the patients are, more services will be done on the outside of the hospital than is being done today. It is one and only to get a better result — and not least a better result for and more health for those who have been harmed or have become seriously ill. History shows us that this has also worked well in the time that has been, when innovations have come. One can only refer to how they were treated with Metalyse in hospitals a few years ago, that one now transports them to PCI centres, and they're finished in hours or a day – or that we've made arrangements for brain strokes, where one comes out early, gives the right treatment, gets fewer brain cell damage. The patient gets better, needs less rehabilitation and gets better quality of life. The Christian People's Party is busy getting a big message that sees the entire emergency service as a whole, because this is related. Some services should be centralised, others should not be. At the same time, we have received fewer ambulances, but ambulances with more equipment and more competent personnel. We also have somewhere in our country where the air ambulance service is not as well covered as it should have been. This has to be connected, so that we as a nation and as people are spared to ensure that those who need our help get it when they need it. It will also be related to response time, the requirements we set for how long it will take for the ambulance service to come out and help the sick person. Therefore, the Christian People's Party will address the proposal where we are co-sponsors. At the same time, there has been a proposal No. 10 from Red. Before I say yes to supporting it – because here it is very good; I really agree with it – I want to get a reply to the Council of State and ask him, before I say whether I support this proposal or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e931	The representative of Olaug V. Bollestad has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e936	A good prehospital service and a good emergency medical preparedness will provide security for all of us, no matter who we are, or where we live in this country. It is also a good social economy when we take into account the consequences for both the individual and the community, if the emergency medicine fails. When the air ambulance preparedness was weakened earlier this year, it gave insecurity and demanded creative solutions that had a price tag. Fortunately, it is now so smooth that the treatment of acute illness in Norway has become better and more effective in recent decades, especially in terms of heart and brain strokes, as also mentioned by the case-rapporteur in his speech. The working party believes it is now high time for a big message to see the prehospital services and the emergency medical chain in the context, based primarily on the public investigation that took place in 2015. A new roll-out message will see the needs for car, boat and air ambulances combined, also in terms of capacity and structure. A good ambulance service also requires good and predictable hospital budgets. That's why the Workers' Party prioritises $1.65 billion. kr more to the hospitals in their alternative budget for 2019. There is a need to read daily about possible structural changes in the ambulance service, where there can be doubt as to whether the changes are professionally justified, rather than economically motivated. The amount of ambulance duty by car has grown strongly, while the coverage of ambulances has been built down in many places. Although the perimeters do not have the same density of blue light functions as cities and agglomerations, we cannot accept that the quality is getting worse in the districts. The challenges in many districts are, in particular, the maintenance of adequate capacity and competence. In many municipalities, there is a challenge with few emergencies. It is good in itself, but makes it difficult to maintain skills and get enough experience and good enough training for the staff. It is important to explore other ways of organising these services, which many municipalities work well with, together with their local health businesses. A good emergency chain is much more than an ambulance. Several municipalities have increased the pre-hospital service by improving the quality of all services, including: by ensuring that the first response can be provided by other health professionals while waiting for the ambulance. One example is the project in the municipality of Røyrvik, which has lost the ambulance in recent years. A fireman and a nurse from the hospital are now moving into the emergency room. The nurse has been trained in emergency medicine. That's how you improve preparedness all day and are able to provide competent help while waiting for reinforcements. Cooperation between St. Olav's hospital and the municipality of Røro, supported by the Health Directorate, means that the ambulance service also takes on the task of community health services. There it was seen that the community health service was very busy, while the ambulance service was sitting in the room next to time left. Before the scheme was introduced, the ambulance service in the municipality used 7 pst. of working time on call-out missions. After the introduction of a health guard, as it is called, the ambulance workers feel that they strengthen their competence by working with both the medical, fire and home services. Another good example is the emergency chain project at the Hospital Telemark. There are more. We don't solve tomorrow's challenges with yesterday's solutions or by fighting for everything to last as it is. We need flexibility and good interaction between municipalities and health companies, both of whom have been legally responsible for emergency medical preparedness. Therefore, we are pleased that a big message about the important services before coming to the hospital is now getting a majority in this room. With that, I would like to deal with what the Labour Party proposal is behind in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e959	The representative of Ingvild Kjerkol has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e964	We all want to get to treatment as soon as possible if the accident is first out. We live in a long-term country that is particularly demanding for emergency preparedness, and our four seasons create different challenges and delays. This means that we need to have a decentralised structure on the emergency medical supply, so that all of our citizens get equivalent healthcare of high quality. The high level of preparedness provides safety for emergency medical care when we need it. Damages and complications are prevented by receiving medical assistance as early as possible, regardless of whether it is bone fractures or strokes, where early treatment is essential for the outcome and subsequent quality of life. Printing vehicles, ambulances and ambulances equipped with high-quality medical equipment and those working in this industry have very high medical competence. Now it also seems that there will be a Bachelor's degree in ambulance training, which will further strengthen competence. It also provides equivalent good treatment at the site of the accident or where it is obtained with acute illness. The rest of the Blue Light Act also does a good and important job in emergency preparedness, although this is not part of their primary task. New technology makes it possible to control the fleet of an exclamation vehicle in a good and appropriate way. The medical guards around the municipality of Norway are also an important part of our emergency medical response. The interaction reform expects the bodyguard to be able to move out by car or boat, and the municipalities that have this offer can report good experience. Nor should we forget the valuable work done by a number of relief teams and health professionals, by teaching the people in basic first aid. Increased knowledge of first aid in the population is also an important part of emergency preparedness. The working party, the Centre Party and SV will require a transfer of operations when changing the operator within the air ambulance service. We don't think this is right, as the Norwegian Air Ambulance Foundation also points out in its hearing opinions to the committee. The Norsk Luftambulanse Foundation fears that claims for business transfer will favour large, foreign airlines, which I doubt is the wish of the Workers' Party, the Senterpartiet and SV. If we in the Right do not support the proposals of the opposition parties, it is because the development of the ambulance service needs to be seen in the context of the National Health and Hospital Plan. This plan should ensure a coherent system of emergency medical services in our country. The Health Directorate has been given a number of assignments to look at improvement measures throughout the emergency medical chain. We believe that the mandates given satisfy the proposals contained in the proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e983	The centre batch will prescribe a response time requirement for ambulances and will base the emergency selection proposal on national response times of 8, 12 and 25 minutes. We propose an action plan for better ambulance services in Norway. We suggest that healthcare professionals do not have to centralise or stop the ambulance service. We suggest that common emergency medical plans between municipalities and businesses and regular training with other naudetatars are set out in a future revised emergency medical code. We suggest that the government evaluate the emergency aid scheme when it relates to function, development and funding, and we suggest that claims are made for the transfer of assets by offering them in the boat ambulance service. With this, I take up the suggestions from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party in the setting - and I have done so. There will be consequences for medical preparedness in our country if our proposals do not have multiples. Across the country, the closure or centralisation of the supply of ambulances is assessed. It particularly affects districts with long distances to other immediate care services, and where medical care services are also weak. It applies to districts with an older population, which we know is extra dependent on the ambulance service. The hospital Telemark is one health care establishment that these days has a hearing proposal for a new ambulance plan. The ambulance in Vinje municipality is to be reduced to a day-car. It will not only reduce the preparedness in Vinje if it becomes a reality, but also in the municipalities of Tokke, Seljord and Witteseid, and it will result in ringings for Bø in Telemark, for the municipality of Hjartdal and for the municipality of Tinn. According to the National Health and Hospital Plan, prehospital services and emergency services outside hospitals should be strengthened. I don't feel it's happening. Across the country it is reported that ambulance response times are not followed up. On Monday I attended a meeting in the municipality of Masfjorden in Hordaland. The fireman there told me they had seven fire stations in their district. It was because they had legal requirements for response time. Among other things, they had to reach hospitals within 10 minutes, and then there had to be so many fire stations. But for the ambulance service in Masfjorden, the result was 90 p.m. of the ambulance mission had a response time of 50 minutes. Health Bergen proposes in a new ambulance service plan that the emergency helper function in Masfjorden should be taken into account in order to reduce the health care provider’s response time. The legends tell us that they're already sending bad patients by taxi to secure emergency services in the municipality. The Fire Service reported difficulties in recruiting crews due to increased missions with the emergency helper function. The municipality clarifies in its hearing that emergency workers must be a supplement in the municipalities and not a substitute for prehospital services. For emergency workers, health professionals are not part of the statutory health and care services in municipalities or hospitals. If emergency workers are to become part of prehospital services, there must be clear instructions in the form of laws or regulations describing legal responsibility, competence requirements, tasks, etc. The municipality also noted that after the emergency aid function became part of the task of fire services, there have been considerable economic consequences, with costs of printing and costs of training and raising skills. They feel that there is an offset of tasks without following economic resources. Why am I talking so much about Masfjorden? This is because their assessment is at the heart of the problem in this Document 8. The centre – and others – is behind the proposal for a decision to request a notification of the prehospital services, but it does not help to wait for a notification and see that the ambulance service is being further developed. We receive support for law enforcement from, among other things, LHL and LHL Brainbeats, Trade Unions, etc. To those who are opposed to a statutory response time, and who pay tribute to the emergency aid function, I would say that they have to listen to the municipalities. It's not that we need a review of response times, as the Workers' Party writes in its comments. Here we already know enough. Only political will is needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1004	The representative, Kjersti Tope, has drawn up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1009	I would like to go back to a beautiful August day in 1955. Then my grandfather died. Laughtonna was just in motion, because the spring of 1955 had been unusually late. My grandfather had become sick while he stood and beat out on the field, and had been tossed in the house by my father and my grandmother. Fortunately, they were among the privileged people who had received a telephone, so they saved a few minutes. But to get to the farm in Bergsnov and introduce a new word into the household, namely "heart attack," he had to be transported. The good doctor Holst-Roness was, as doctors most at the time, mostly on the move, on the way to someone who needed help, usually by boat and maybe by car, if they found, and if there was a road. The prehospital services, i.e. local Holst-Roness, were put on alert, and the fastest transport was requested. It included a car from Nesna to Hamarøysand, at the heart of the Strandland, then a motorboat across the Ranafjord to Neppelberg. Bardal's only car was ready, a truck, and brought the doctor home. After a journey that lasted well over two hours, he could say the word that had never been heard before: «heart attack». Of course, the doctor could only provide relief, and the patient was ordered to the hospital in Bodø. But how was my grandfather to get to Bodø? This was a Saturday, and what was found by motorized crafts was on Hemnesberg, as they were always on Saturdays. So it had to be called to Hemnes, to one of the shops, who was assigned to find one of the boat owners and send him out as soon as possible to be sick transport. It was Sigurd Amundsen who got into the boat and gave the full regulator on a trip to Bardal and the patient. In the meantime, the grandfather was placed in a sick basket, tossed on the loading plane of the car and drove down to Kaia, where both Sigurd Amundsen and the boat finally arrived. Well on board was the sick basket large, and the boat was small, so the basket was put across the rum hatch, and so it carried out through the Ranafjord, on the way to Nesna. This trip also took a good two hours. On Nesna he was put on land and placed in the old hospital, where he lay until the next day, when the fast route arrived. He was put on board the fast route and was probably in Bodø six to seven hours later. That the man was still alive must almost be considered a miracle. But even in Bodø they did not have the competence to do so, and my grandfather died there almost two weeks later, 49 years old. What's the morale of this? It's far, this country, and most of it's north. We've been expanding welfare services and health services in a long-term country for the past 60 years. We can't build them back down. With this I am promoting SV's proposal in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1026	The representative Marius Meisfjord Jøsevold has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1032	Before the summer, there was a crisis in the air ambulance service. This was due to a devastating tendering process, in which the health business, with the blessing of the council, Höie, did not claim to ensure that the most important thing for the service, namely the staff, was included. It was so serious that it was a threat to the lives and health of patients. It was a shame that no life was lost in that period. The scandal showed the vitality of the air ambulance service for community preparedness, the fact that ambulance aircraft are a kind of air bridge between district and specialist health services, and that it is absolutely vital for the safety of the population that ambulance aircraft are operating at all times. But as long as the service is open to tender, as we saw with a wheel ambulance, we risk raising the competence every six years, when a new tender is to be published and taken over. In our view, such a system is irresponsible for a service designed to safeguard the security of life and health of the population and also has important national emergency services. We also know that the company that won the bid won because they last round pushed down the price by cutting the cost of pilots. We are aware of the consequences of the fact that the tender did not contain any business transfer requirement, which should of course be the case if you first have to provide that type of service on the tender. Red therefore supports all proposals that can ensure that, if they are first to be carried out, tendering procedures become medically sound, ensure that personnel do not disappear but stay in touch. It's only in a theoretical world that there's something to do with the fact that you can only extract employees who do the service, and pick up new ones, without compromising the quality of the service, at least in terms of this kind of acute, vital services for the lives and safety of the population. We are promoting a proposal today. It is with the background of the rather stupendous fate that the emergency committee's report was given. They proposed to investigate the public operation of the operational part of the air ambulance service. That proposal was put in a drawer by the Council of State Bent Höie and remained in his drawer, perhaps because the Right for ideological reasons is against the public taking full responsibility for the security of life and health of the population – they about it! We are now proposing that the unanimous decision to cancel before the summer to have an investigation of the public or non-profit operation of the air ambulance service be carried out in time, so that the Storting may be able to decide that it will be done in public or non-profit making terms, before it is too late, before the next bidding process is under way, which was the argument of the Council of State Bent Höie to reject our claim before the summer, about the public takeover of the service before it collapsed. We hope that this proposal is unproblematic for all parties on the Stortinget. We are pleased if the Council of State Bent Höie can respond positively to Bollestad’s questions about this, but it is even better to have a unanimous decision on the size of the population that states that the investigation will be carried out ‘by the end of the current ageing period’. Of course, we rely on Bent Höie's words, but we dare say that if possible, a big decision has even greater weight than a government council had to say in a line-up in the staging room. That is why we are in favour of the best of two worlds: both a confirmation from Bent Höie to Bollestad and a unanimous decision by the Red's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1049	The representative Bears Moxnes has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1054	The government's objective is to ensure a coherent system of emergency services inside and outside hospitals. Norway has some of the world’s best-developed and most competent emergency services outside hospitals. We're going to have that in the future, too. OECD figures show that Norwegian results are top in the world in the treatment of acute myocardial infarction and stroke. This indicates a functioning emergency chain. We have a good ambulance service. I quote from NOU 2015: 17, first and foremost, which several people have been on: ‘With long distances, scattered populations and climatic challenges, Norway is a challenging country to provide emergency medical services. Compared to other countries, Norway has a decentralised ambulance structure with a well-developed ambulance service.’ I do not agree with the presentation of a reduction in the ambulance service. We're going to spend 6.1 billion. kr in the year on these services. However, changes in the ambulance structure are needed in some places. Then we have to think again about how we best use local preparedness. The proposers are concerned with the response time for the ambulance service. It is difficult to demand response time in the regulation of the housing pattern and the geography we have in Norway. I have ensured that the response time for the ambulance service has become a national quality indicator, in line with the emergency committee recommendation. I agree that a review of the response times is necessary, and the Health Directorate is doing this work. Health regions and municipalities are responsible for the emergency medical services outside hospitals. It is those who know where the shoe prints and who have to assess capacity and how best to organise services. Therefore, I do not think it is appropriate to send a large-scale notification of prehospital services to investigate the overall capacity and base structure of ambulance services, as stated in the committee's position. Otherwise, the base structure of the air ambulance service has already been thoroughly investigated. 98 pst. by the population of Norway can be reached by medically staffed ambulance helicopters within 45 minutes. This is good within the goal, which is 90 pst. The recommendations and follow-up to the investigation are mentioned in the State budget. We also need to investigate the public and non-profit operation of the air ambulance service. We have good emergency medical services. The development of prehospital services should be seen in the context of the primary health service notification, the national health and hospital plan and the development plans in the health regions. It is mainly the local plans for the prehospital and emergency services that it is important that we raise the status and make it work even better. That's where the people are where the people who are going to work together are going to work. Therefore, it is my clear view that there is no need for a big message about the prehospital services or several action plans. What is needed is to make cooperation work even better locally where services are to be provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1076	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1081	Emergency medical preparedness consists of more than the ambulance service – I think the Council of State and I can quickly agree – and in many places good models have been developed that represent new ways of organising the service. I mentioned in my post the example from Røhrvik, where it was no longer appropriate to have an ambulance base because you could not recruit competent personnel, and you were not given enough mandate to maintain your competence. There are also many other examples, including: from Røros, where the ambulance service also helps the municipal emergency response within their responsibilities. But what's common concern is that this is project-organized. There are good ways to work that have an expiration date in terms of funding. What are the intentions of the Council of State to ensure sustainable funding for this kind of good, forward-looking way of resolving the mission?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1088	I fully agree with the representative's presentation of what is a new system, which evolves in many places in the country, and which goes many places under the name of emergency services. What we are doing now to strengthen the quality and basis of this type of service is that the Health Directorate is working to establish guidelines for the precisely emergency aid function, and it will also strengthen this system professionally and the status of the service. As far as funding is concerned, it seems to me that there will be so many good, different local models here – sometimes it is the municipality that ‘makes up’ for the hospital; at other times it is the hospital that ‘makes up’ for the municipality – that I think the best solution is that the different local models find their funding solution in collaboration between the municipalities and hospitals, in line with the agreements that will be between the hospitals and the municipalities in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1095	I perceive the answer to the council so that good municipal budgets and good hospital budgets will help with this common funding where it is natural. There we have a little different opinion about what's good enough – that's okay. But what I was going to ask the Council of State for, as a follow-up, was: when these good services are established — health care and immediate medical assistance — this with response times becomes an approach that is not based in all contexts on good practice. For example: establish a medical watch car that comes first to the event, provides the opportunity to have a doctor assessed as the first response, and then you are not bound by the normative response times that health care providers have. This competence, which is about ensuring proper assessment of the event, we need better systems and we need it to act better together. How does the Council of State view this need in its plans?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1102	I very much agree with what the representative here says. It is also one of the reasons why I agree with the representative that fixing these response times would not be the right and appropriate instrument, and therefore it is also in line with what the NOU has recommended, namely to have this as a quality indicator. The advantage of that is that we then have an indicator that tells us something about the status in that area, but it also provides enough flexibility to be able to find good local solutions. But as I think I said in my post, the Health Directorate is now working on going through these indicators and the way it's measured. The quality of these is not good enough as they are today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1107	In his article, the Council of State said that he did not see the need to present a separate notification of prehospital services, for which it now appears to be becoming multiple – if the decision is made as in the setting. And then I have a painful experience that is something that the government and the government don't like, just don't make those suggestions, even if they're adopted, for example. the decision to reduce the ISF in healthcare professionals from 50 pst. to 40 pst. It is only not implemented because the government is indisposed. My question is, when there are multiples for a staggering message, will the government issue a staggering message about prehospital services?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1116	Of course, I deal at all times with what Stortinget thinks and decides. That's it. But I also need to give Stortinget feedback on my assessment of the proposals discussed in the case, before voting. It is my clear recommendation that this is not where we need to put the work now. What we need is to work even more to make the local agreements work, because that's where the people are, that's where the response time means something, and that's where the solutions are to be found. There are a number of other issues that are on the way to Stortingen, which affect this area, for example: new national health and hospital plan. I believe that it would therefore be wrong to use the scarce resources that you have in the Ministry of Health and Welfare and in the underlying agencies, to develop new documents and to give priority to doing so now. But of course I'm dealing with what the Storting decides. It is the Stortinget that adopts the state budget, and the ISF is part of the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1127	The district hospital board has adopted a new ambulance plan with measures to reduce the number of ambulances in Grane, Hattfjelldal and Wefsn and to move the ambulance station from Nesna and Lurey to the Uttera. The professional communities in Helgeland have identified major weaknesses in the ambulance plan, with dramatic increases in response time and potential real-time conflicts. In my post from the pulpit I told a 60-year-old story. Can the Council of State assure us that we are not going back there?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1135	Yes, I can. I think it was an interesting and fascinating story the representative told from the pulpit, and that tells a lot about the evolution that we've had in this area over the last decades. The last count – from 2017 – from the SSB in the case of ambulances shows that we have received more ambulances. In addition, however, we have also more developed a new system, namely the sick vans, which help to improve preparedness because ambulances are less involved in regular patient transportation – they can actually be on standby. I know that there are now many discussions about this type of structure in many places, among other things. also in Helgeland. My clear premise is that it's done in close cooperation with the municipalities, and that one involves them, so that one sees the entire emergency medical chain in a context. It's important for the quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1144	In the spring there was a great deal of pressure on the air ambulance service, especially in the north, but that was true of the whole country. A lot of people were concerned about the transfer of competence, and a lot of people were concerned about the tender system as it turned out. The majority had a unanimous decision asking the government to ‘investigate the public/ideal operation of the air ambulance service’. What's important, I think, is to know that this has started, that it's going to be over during this big time, because when the tendering periods go out and we start thinking about new tendering processes, you don't have to get on your heels with this – considering what we experienced in ours. So my question is, has the Council of State started the work the Stortinget asked for, and what time frames do the Council of State have for this work?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1151	The answer to that is yes. We are in the process of completing the mandate for the work. There will also be a deadline. That deadline will be such that this work will be completed within this large-scale period, in line with the proposal that is now on the table. So I believe that there is no need for the Storting to adopt this. It is also very clear to me that if this investigation is to have some value, it is important that a person should just have the opportunity to discuss this thoroughly, make a decision, so that we know this in good time before there is a possible need for new tenders. That's why I also disagree with the story description that came from Red here. It wasn't me who put down the emergency committee, it was my predecessor who did. But when they had finished their work, one in any case had not pulled out this in advance of the offer that had to be made. So it wasn't I who put it in a drawer, it was the timetable that actually didn't last.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1160	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1167	It's urgent when the blue lights are on. It's urgent when life and health are at stake. It is urgent when serious accidents occur or strikes occur. And when it's urgent, the time is very crucial for the outcome, and the waiting time is extra long. Therefore, we need a preparedness to ensure that the help comes in time. I am from Salten, and none of the municipalities in Salten have response time for ambulances within indicative deadlines. In densely built strips, such as Bodø, the recommended response time today is within 12 minutes, but according to the Health Directorate's 2017 figures, the response time in Bodø is 25 minutes. In practice, this is a doubling of the recommendation. Otherwise, the indicative response time in Salt is within 25 minutes. In Beiarn you can multiply the response time by two, to 52.5 minutes, in Fauske it is 39.4 minutes, in Gildeskaal 35.4 minutes, in Hamarøy 43 minutes, in Meløy 48 minutes, in Saltdal 32.7 minutes and in Steigen 38.4 minutes. In Sørfold you can more than triple the response time – to 79.8 minutes. We have these long waiting times in Salten – relatively central in Northernland. When this is doubling and tripling the response time, you can just imagine the challenges on the outskirts and on the islands. In fact, I know places in the north that don't have standby at night. When this situation was to change, the option was that they could be prepared at night for handling the situation even in the daytime. Even though the Council of State Höie refutes that this was the case, this is going back to 1955 and the stories that the representative Meisfjord Jøsevold pointed out, where the family had to call around and arrange transport privately. The centre party will not sit quietly and watch that there will be greater and greater geographical differences in Norway. The ambulance, ambulance or ambulance are important, and it's important that we get this legalized, so that we get it in place. It is also important that the government imposes requirements on joint emergency medical plans for municipalities and health businesses. We're going forward, not backwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1178	The proposal to prescribe the response time has not been supported in the Workers' Party, simply because it does not ensure a better service or a better preparedness with the knowledge we have. The Minister of Health is the owner of the health companies, and they currently have a legal responsibility for emergency medical preparedness. It is unacceptable if the response time requirement is broken, so that it goes beyond life and health. Nearly half of the municipalities report a breach of response time, and it is fairly evenly distributed whether it is densely built or not. We believe that there is a need for better knowledge of the content of the missions, because all of these are less urgent medically. A thorough review is needed so that the response time, irrespective of the distance locally, can be assessed in a medical profession. We cannot and should not lock healthcare to a goal without knowing that such a goal provides the right competence at the right time. As I said, the Minister of Health is the top responsible for ensuring that the quality of the public time-critical service meets quality and response time requirements. That responsibility is covered by law today. If we form a majority together with the opposition to legislate on one goal for the service, we prevent flexible solutions that can improve the service, and we intervene in the responsibility of the Minister of Health and what we can make him responsible for in this room next time. The Labour Party cannot be involved in this. The good health care projects show a reinforced emergency medical response in very many cases where the response time does not apply. Local conditions must determine how the service is structured. If not, the territories with long journeys to hospitals can become the big losers. Then I just want to say in the end that I am very happy that the fire service has a fixed response time, and that it is regulated. It is an important service, but it is also organised quite differently from the emergency response. The fire service consists very many places of volunteer firefighters who practice and train, extinguish fires and maintain their competence well. The emergency medical response in our ambulances is highly specialized. We need proper and good competence. They have to have enough jobs to keep their skills up to date, and when these professionals are going to practice and train, they have to do it together with all the others in the emergency services — so it's not completely comparable. We support the proposal from the Red Group.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1195	In this case, we're probably fundamentally in disagreement with the Labour Party and the Government. We mean that one can legitimize or prescribe the response time in the ambulance, in the same way as in the fire department. It's about emergency aid. The fact that we don't have enough knowledge of the response time today, I can't understand. We've had an emergency selection that at least points to the response times of 8, 12, and 25 minutes. To the point that there isn't so much, of course it doesn't. What we're talking about law enforcement is the red mission, it's emergency help. Other ambulance missions could take longer. It's emergency help when there's a hurry for life and health, that's when we're going to have our regulatory response time, because unless the service is centralised. It may be right to say that it is not completely built-in, because there are several ambulances, but the service is centralised. It's kind of a paradox that we need to get a better quality ambulance service and a better quality bodyguard, but they need to be removed from the districts. And then we're going to increase social differences in Norway, and it can't be in the Center Party. When it applies to West-Finnmark and the offer in the boat ambulance there, we again have a proposal to set requirements for business transfer. This offer was canceled by the company itself. We asked the Minister of Health a question about this in question, and he defended it. One can ask questions about what is happening in healthcare services in the ambulance service. That's pretty special. We now have a proposal to set requirements for both marine and commercial transfer. If our proposal is accepted, proposal No. 5, we will support proposal No next time. 1, from the Workers' Party. In addition, we will support the Red proposal for a deadline for the arrival of air ambulance cases in Stortinget. Finally, I would like to say that we in the Central Party have emergency preparedness as the top priority in the health budget, and we have 500 million. Dr. Ambulance, maternity and local hospitals, because we see that there are now very big challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1208	A fundamental prerequisite for the welfare society is the security — the confidence and security of the community for individuals when needed and not alone. It's one of the success criteria for the welfare society we've created. We have to recognize that this country is very different: it's long distance, it's wide, it's high, and it's winding. So how we get to that security, how we create the confidence that you get help regardless of where you live, there will be different solutions for all over the country. But the goal and requirement is that there has to be equivalence — not the same, but the same. It must be our responsibility, we who are here in the Chamber, and not least those who are responsible for the executive, namely the government. Services must be of high quality. We need to be sure that there is enough capacity to help all those who need it, and we need to be sure that that help comes within a reasonable time, so that you get it before it's too late. We can be absolutely sure that this is taking people. That's what we did, for example. in ours, when we had a big discussion, and the air ambulance service stopped completely for a few days. Then that security was not present. People were insecure as to whether the big community can set up when it needs to. I am getting an increasing number of enquiries from both rapporteurs and voters, who report on what is called cohesive conflicts in fine language here. There are now more people than before who experience that the ambulance does not come when they ask for help. Last night, there was a look-up in the Vesterålen locality, where a one-year-old did not experience help when you needed help. Then I need to stress that I believe that this is the basis for, as the Workers' Party is asking, that we have a review, based on the NOU, of how the emergency medical services, the prehospital services, should be organised in the context of ensuring that people experience the security they are entitled to, and that is our responsibility as a large community to set up. I noticed that the council complained about scarce resources and pushed the Storting ahead. It's almost at the limit of cooking when you say you didn't have the resources to make this big message. It's a shame to adopt that attitude. For the Workers' Party, we have chosen to give a different priority. The Council of State represents a government that provides a government budget. It could be chosen to give health services higher priority than they do, to give them a higher priority — because they also have to provide their health services — so that there was sufficient resources, and we got better services. We in the Labour Party have chosen to do that in our alternative budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1223	It is interesting that the large dividing lines in this case go between the Workers' Party and the Center Party, and I'm going to do 100 pst. behind the argument to Kjerkol in terms of law enforcement of response time. When I listen to the representative Toppe, it strikes me that she must be the most expensive politician in Britain, because in the debate after debate she will have to have legislation, investigation, bigoting, designation – it is not the way in which the sector should not have more money, or the professional groups we need more. I've started to think about it a little bit, it's an interesting calculation. But fortunately, the representative Toppe does not have an impact on his own big business group, because if you look at the alternative budget of the Center Party, there is not so much money to pick up. This is 500 million. kr for various good purposes, but it is money that has largely been moved on. So much fresh funding for the specialist health service is not to be traced in the Central Party's alternative budget. In the case of a big shot, it's like we have, as others have been, maybe the world's best ambulance and emergency services in Norway. We are in a special class in prehospital services, we have very good numbers in terms of mortality both of heart attack and stroke and the type of diagnosis that is most urgent. I believe it is most appropriate to further develop this service. Others believe that it is also important to make another big message. The sum of investigations, the sum of large-scale reports, the sum of strategies that come through requests decisions in Stortinget, actually do a lot of extra work for the Ministry, and it makes it extra fun that the Centre Party in its budget cutters for those who are going to do this job in the Ministry. I just want to say that the number of questions from the representative Toppe is enough to employ a whole bunch of bureaucrats. There must be some coherence in the policy – I miss that, because this is a pattern. So to distances: now we got an outline of all the municipalities in Salten from a representative in the Center Party. It's not just in North Norway that there are distances. I live in Haugesund. Outside of Haugesund there are a number of island communities: Utsira, an hour by ferry, an hour by sea they live. How's the response time there? Røvær, Føyno – how do they manage? We don't have to make this so that it's just North Norway that has distances. Distances exist in Rogaland, Hordaland, Sogn and Fjordane — all over Norway. I agree that this is a challenge. One of the good things about Norway is that we have a scattered population, but if we are to have a world-leading ambulance service, there must be highly competent personnel who have time to practice, and it described Ingvild Kjerkol very well in its post.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1242	When I witness such debates as this, it sometimes strikes me that there are actually people out there reading the minutes of these meetings and these negotiations. Then I think it's in my place to point out – I don't know what to call it – a description of reality that's strange, when the representative Ingvild Kjerkol says that the air ambulance service is weakened in 2019 compared to 2018. Just to make it clear, as a small reprisal of the debate we had here in ours: Short-haul aircraft on all bases will be introduced from 1 July 2019, navigation equipment will be improved, safety equipment will be improved, medical accommodation will be improved, and the crew in the rear guard will be picked up in sickness and absence in a completely different way than it was done before. Ambulance aircraft services will be strengthened by over 100 million in Norway in 2019. kr in relation to 2018. How the representative Kjerkol makes it a worse offer, I actually don't understand. To the representative of Moxnes, who unfortunately is not here: he says that this was a devastating tender process. No, it was a normal procedure. It was only distorted by, among other things. The representative of Moxnes, who called this government the responsibility. It wasn't at all. There was a perfectly normal conflict between different groups of workers. This tendering process has saved society for millions of dollars, which can be used for example. to prevent cancer, to improve dental health and to other ambulance services — just to repeat some of the debate we have had here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1250	The representative Kjersti Top has the word twice before and gets the word to a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1255	I am told that I am an animal in operation and that I am bothering the government, but I will continue to do so. To the criticism that we don't have a budget: we're going to come back to that, because I want to distance myself from what was said. That one dares to talk about who does not have funding – when the Council of State stands here and says that emergency aid and the municipality should take over the responsibility of the ambulance many places today, without the municipalities being given one penny, for this is something that health professionals and the municipalities must find out in common: what I think is disclaimer, and that is why we in the State budget have prioritised an increase to this very thing. The changes we see in the ambulance are not professionally funded. You can read it in all places: there are economic savings that make them have to cut out the ambulance – while one stands here and talks like this is a professionally wanted development. It's about economics, so we're trying to do something about it too.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1262	The representative of Stensland criticized me for basing on Salt – yes, I was starting from what is my area, and that I know best. But the Center Party wants response times within the specified 8, 12 and 25 minutes across the country. I said the Center Party won't sit still and watch that there will be greater and greater geographical differences in Norway. Then I want to secure the representative that the Center Party is also thinking about islands and edges outside of North Norway. As far as the budget is concerned, the representative Toppe said some of the things that were important. In addition, I have to make it clear that the Center Party wants to spend more than 1 billion dollars. kr more for county roads. It's a very important part of this package, because we can then tie the edges closer together with healthcare companies, hospitals and local help. This must also be taken into account in our commitment to preparedness. I see that in the field after field, the government conducts a policy that weakens basic services. In its eagerness to centralize, the government is jeopardizing the credibility of both the welfare state and the legal community. Feeling confident that the ambulance is on time, and that the police have the resources to do their job, is not a matter of course throughout the country. Then I think about the whole country, not just my own region, although I want to mention an example from Northern Ireland. Northland police districts have had a decline of 49 p.m. in serious drug cases in recent years, not because the number of cases has decreased, but because the police cannot give priority to this and other areas — this is because they are required to centralise. It may be a little strange that I mention this in a debate on ambulance preparedness, but this is a continuous trend that we have to turn around, so it'll be good to live in the whole country in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1273	The representative Ingvild Kjerkol has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1278	I'm not going to use that minute once, but since the representative Grimstad took on the work of writing a record from the big meetings, I just have to repeat that in 2018 the air ambulance preparedness in Norway, especially in the northern part of the country, was weakened. It was so weakened that planes were on the ground in the absence of pilots. The situation was so serious that the council came to Stortinget and briefed, and the government put in ad hoc measures. It wasn't an opinion from my side, it was a brief record of the short history.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1283	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1299	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, five lines of reply be given to the members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1308	On behalf of the Health and Care Committee, I present the opinion on the matter. I am addressing at the same time the proposals that the Workers' Party is part of. In the examination of the proposal for a representative, the Committee agrees to stress that it is important to maintain and further develop a good rehabilitation offer in our common healthcare system. The Committee is also clear that large investments in the hospital sector should not be detrimental to the treatment of patients falling within the scope of specialist healthcare. It is therefore important that the financial framework for hospitals is large enough to allow one to maintain operations while there is room for making the necessary investments. The Health Directorate is clear in its guide that persons with chronic diseases and conditions such as carbon should, as a general rule, receive their treatment offer in the municipalities. I also think many people appreciate being able to get follow-up and treatment close to where they live, provided that it's good and proper treatment they get. I am pleased that a joint committee decides that a transfer of tasks from the specialist health service to the municipalities should not take place until the municipalities are rigged economically, competently and with sufficient capacity to take over the relevant tasks in the field. It must also apply to the issue of the closure of the 2 East Egersund rehabilitation unit. The Labour Party and I note that the municipalities of Rogaland, and in particular the municipality of Eigersund, have some concerns about the closure of the offer in Egersund. This applies in particular to whether the municipalities have been properly able to take over these tasks. For the Workers' Party, it is absolutely essential that these patients do not now fall between two chairs and feel that no one is able to give them the treatment they need. The Health Directorate has recently prepared a note showing that there is a reduction in the number of patients who have received rehabilitation in the specialist health service. At the same time, they say that it is difficult to trace a large build-up of the municipal rehabilitation service. It creates a concern that people don't get the rehabilitation they need, that the solution to specialised rehabilitation is more urgent, and that many end up being left to themselves. We can't have it that way. Successful rehabilitation is a good investment in quality of life for the individual, but also good social economy, if it means that people can do better themselves and maybe get back to work. The Labour Party is therefore concerned about the framework of the government’s budget now provides the specialist health services and municipalities – they are so tight that the work on rehabilitation becomes harmful. We are therefore in agreement with the Centre Party and SV on two proposals, asking the government to strengthen the provision of rehabilitation services for patients with coal while at the same time correcting the geographical differences in patients’ access to specialised rehabilitation. In addition, the Workers' Party has made a proposal, in which the Christian People's Party is with us, in which I hope to have a majority today, where we ask the government to ensure that the municipalities of Rogaland are given the opportunity to build up the necessary skills and capacity to take over the responsibility of the patient group concerned if the decision to shut down the rehabilitation department 2 East of Egersund is maintained. Neither the patients themselves nor we as society can afford them to fall between two chairs because the offer in the municipalities is not in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1327	The representative, Tellef Inge Mørland, has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1332	This is probably a matter of centralising health services. In this case, we agree with a proposal to ask the government to strengthen the provision of rehabilitation services for patients with coal in both municipalities and health services and to ensure that healthcare providers do not reduce their supply until the corresponding level is built up in the municipalities. We are also involved in a proposal to ask the government to rectify the geographical and regional differences in patients' access to specialised rehabilitation, and a proposal to ask the government to ensure that the 16 beds in rehabilitation division 2 East of Egersund are kept up. This is a proposal that deals both with the overall provision of rehabilitation services, with the availability of carbon buffers in particular, and also takes a special position on the closure of the rehabilitation services in Egersund. It is a major, overarching problem that there will be cuts in the rehabilitation field, especially in hospitals, and that before the corresponding housing is built up in the municipalities. No one disagrees that more rehabilitation can take place in municipalities, but there is a system error when health professionals systematically cut their supply before it is built up in the municipalities, and without being followed by money. In this case, it is also known that there was a contributing reason for the closure – the need to finance a new hospital in Stavanger. The result to be increased by 200 million. kr. They can save $12 million. kr to close this section. Again: The termination of this offer is not professionally considered. First of all, this is a result of economics, and it's not driven to secure the professional in patient supply. Then I'll give you an explanation of vote. We shall vote in favour of proposal No. 3, from the Labour Party and the Christian People's Party, when I assume that our proposal, no. Four, fall. Finally, I would like to put forward a proposal No. 4, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1343	The representative has put forward the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1348	Rehabilitation covers different multi-level offers. Most people are treated locally, and it is an objective that municipalities should take greater responsibility for this. Some people need specialised rehabilitation, and it is the responsibility of health businesses. They take that, but they don't have to take responsibility for what's a municipal task. Not all municipalities have sufficient professional breadth, experience and competence. That is why we see a good cooperation between municipalities and hospitals in several places. We want to improve the ability of municipalities – and we have put it – to provide rehabilitation services for the most common patient groups. Among other things, we have a phasing out plan for rehabilitation and rehabilitation, which emphasises the need for specialised competence for patients to determine whether rehabilitation is to take place in the specialist health service or in the municipality. Last year we increased the free income of municipalities by 100 million. kr additional justification with just this escalating plan. In addition, 100 million were earmarked. kr to the plan. The 2019 budget has a further 100 million. kr for the same purpose. Rogaland has so far received more than 12 million. kr both in 2017 and 2018 to strengthen rehabilitation in municipalities. By doing so, municipalities can strengthen the provision of rehabilitation services to patients who have so far had an offer in Eigersund. In the future, municipalities will have to take greater responsibility for health services. The specialised treatment belongs in hospitals, but ordinary treatment, care and care, which belong to primary health, should be in the municipalities. This also applies to most chronic lung disease. Of course, serious cases are to be dealt with in hospitals, but as a general rule rehabilitation is to be done under the responsibility of municipalities. That's why it's nice that we see an increase in the number of annual works for physiotherapists and ergot therapists in the municipalities. These are key disciplines in rehabilitation. We have even decreed that all municipalities should have ergoterapeut. A central point in this case is whether the municipalities have built up local services prior to liquidation, and whether health companies and municipalities have cooperated well enough on this. Questions may be asked about this, but it is certain that the municipalities have been allocated funds through the escalation plan. Thus, everything should facilitate the construction of a local offer. Health regions have a care-care responsibility for existing patients and for planning future services within the framework set for their activities. I note that Health Stavanger is going to maintain an establishment in Eigersund, but that the rehabilitation offer under the company's direction will be changed. Among other things, an outpatient rehabilitation team must be formed in Health Stavanger. Colspacers in Health Stavanger will receive a better offer and more resources will be allocated to specialised emergency rehabilitation. We believe, like a broad majority, that it would be wrong to override the decisions of healthcare companies in this matter. They are responsible for ensuring an overall offer throughout their area of responsibility. Rehabilitation is, as we see it, essentially and in many cases a municipal responsibility. That's why we've just started a escalation plan with this in mind.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1365	The area of rehabilitation includes a number of treatment services in municipalities and specialist health services. Many patients receive almost exclusively treatment locally. A few people need specialized rehabilitation. Many municipalities have limited professional breadth, experience and competence. Cooperation, guidance and outpatient services from hospitals are necessary to provide a good and complete range of services. The government will strengthen the provision of habilitation and rehabilitation. We have been very clear on this in the political platform. We would like, among other things: improve the capacity of municipalities to take responsibility for the provision of rehabilitation services for the most common patient groups. Furthermore, we have extended the free choice of treatment to include private rehabilitation institutions in the specialist healthcare service and will gradually include rehabilitation in the authorisation system for free treatment choices. The phasing-out plan for rehabilitation and rehabilitation highlights the patient’s need for specialised competence which is essential for rehabilitation in the specialist health service or in the municipality. As a general rule, the provision of large patient groups should be developed in the municipalities. This also applies to most chronic lung disease, but in acute and severe exacerbations some patients will need services at both levels. In recent years, there has been an increase in the number of annual work in the municipalities of physiotherapists, ergot therapists and psychologists, who are important professional groups in the area of lung rehabilitation. About 60 pst. of the municipalities have established fresh-life, learning and mastering services, many offering to users with lung disease. The municipalities will develop the rehabilitation offer for patients, but our clear management signal is that the reduction in the specialist health service should not take place until the municipalities have built up the offer locally. My clear requirement for health regions is that tasks should be transferred in close cooperation with municipalities and that change processes should be carried out locally in dialogue with employees. Health regions are responsible for planning future services within the framework of activities. According to Health West, outpatient activities in Egersund go as planned, and they will have a contract home in skin diseases. Furthermore, the Rehabilitation Department in Stavanger is getting resources to set up a rehabilitation team and increase outpatient activities. Colspacers shall receive a better offer and more resources shall be allocated to emergency rehabilitation. In the 2017 state budget, the municipalities received 100 million. kr in free income, as justified in the plan of escalation, and in addition earmarked 100 million. kr to the plan. In 2019, the government proposed an increase of another 100 million. kr in free income for the same purpose. To date, Rogaland County Council has received more than 12 million. kr both in 2017 and 2018 for strengthening habilitation and rehabilitation in municipalities. By doing so, municipalities can strengthen the provision of rehabilitation services to patients who have currently had an offer in Egersund.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1382	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1387	According to the Health Directorate, less and less rehabilitation is provided through the specialist health service, while it is difficult to trace a similar build-up of the municipal rehabilitation service. To Today’s Medisin on 6 September, the Health Directorate points out that these developments are not in line with the leaders of the rehabilitation and rehabilitation plan. Does the Council share some of the concern of the Health Directorate that, while fewer are receiving treatment in the specialist health service, no major escalation has been observed in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1392	I think we see that there is a clear structure in the municipalities of competence in this area. This is what we see in the development of the annual works. Then I'm also worried that all the municipalities are good enough to take care of the rehabilitation offer. That is one of the reasons why we have put in place a stepping-up plan, which we are now fully funding in proposals for the 2019 government budget. Had we thought that the offer in the municipalities was good enough in this area, we would not have prioritised it as clearly as we do. So I fully agree that there is a need for further strengthening of the offer. However, the direction — the fact that several of those with the usual and general needs receive rehabilitation in the municipality, while the highly specialised and acute is done in the specialist health service — is a division of labour and a direction that I think is right.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1400	The Workers' Party also supports the fact that as much as possible good treatment as possible where they live, but there is still cause for concern in this field, and it may also be useful to point out that the Workers' Party has a completely different municipal budget than the government has set up, precisely to improve the ability of municipalities to take on the tasks assigned to them. So to my next question, and then there's a little more concrete on this matter: has the Council done something concrete in this matter to make sure that these rehabilitation spaces in Rogaland don't get a worse offer than they've had up until now? Can he guarantee them that the offer they will now receive will be at least as good if the decision on closure is maintained?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1407	A great deal of information has been obtained in this case, and it is also evident in my letter to the Stortingen in connection with the Committee's examination of Document 8. There are the plans that Health Stavanger has for developing the offer for this patient group, which I also said in my post. Then it is also important that the municipalities take their share of responsibility, and that one cooperates well with the hospitals in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1412	It doesn't seem like there's any number for the proposal from the Center Party to keep the 16 beds in the Rehabilitation Department 2 East of Egersund. But there will be multiples for the following proposals if we vote subsidiaryly for it: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that municipalities in the region are given the opportunity to build up the necessary competence and capacity to take over the responsibility of the patient group concerned if the decision to close the 2 East Eigersund rehabilitation department is maintained.’ My question to the Council of State is, What will this decision have to say? Would it lead to new measures beyond what the State Council has already described in the response to the committee at the time?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1422	I understand that this proposal opens open doors, because the municipalities get more money in the state budget for 2019 to establish that kind of offer. The county councillor in Rogaland is getting money for this, and they've also got money in the last two years. It is the responsibility of municipalities, and it is important that hospitals and municipalities cooperate on this. Here it is very much a matter of the municipalities actually prioritizing the money they have received through the recovery plan, to develop and strengthen their own offerings. I also feel that it is a wish for locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1427	There have been several reports, both from the National Audit Office on the interaction reform and from the Health Directorate, which show that there is a reduction in the rehabilitation field without an offer being made to municipalities before this happens. And it does not just happen in Rogaland, for example. In Finland, they have a bit of the same problem. My question is: does the Council seem so calm - is not the Council concerned about the rehabilitation field when so many national reports show that it is not related here?
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1432	If I had been calm, I wouldn't have created my own escalating plan for the rehabilitation field and prioritized it by 100 million. kr in the budget for 2019. That's the answer to that. With regard to the specific issue covered by this proposal for a representative, I am concerned that this is an area where I feel that there is a good cooperation between Health Stavanger and the municipalities. I also think it's going to be even better when the treatment in Stortinget is done today, so that everyone is aware of what's going on. And I'm absolutely convinced that one here is finding good solutions locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1437	A last line: When the Council of State says that he feels that there is good cooperation between the municipalities and the health services, he might read the settings and the hearings that have come up not only from Eigersund, but from the chairman of the county and from KS, who told a very different story. There has been no good cooperation between municipalities and health professionals in this matter. Then I'd like to ask the Council of State who he's talking to since he has such an opinion of the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1442	I live in this area and have a cabin in this area, and I talk to people all the way, both local politicians and others, so I think I have a relatively good idea of what the status of the situation is. There has been a lot of unrest and disagreement about this, and of course no one reads newspapers locally and participates in the local political debate, which has not been brought with it. But when the decision is now made and one is going to go on, I am absolutely convinced that one is going to find good solutions together.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1447	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1452	As many people have said, it has been a tremendous commitment to maintaining division 2 east of Egersund. It has been rapporteur's appeal, public meetings and torch trains. I have been among those who have fought for a different decision in Health Stavanger about this. Unfortunately, one did not listen to the local involvement. I will also be one of those who are careful that Health Stavanger keeps what they promise and maintain activity in Egersund further. Unfortunately, one already sees some of the consequences of the closure of the 2 East and the offer there will have for Rogaland and our region. There will be a weakened rehabilitation offer in Rogaland. One halves the number of places, and one weakens a good professional environment that has worked well. This is an example of one making an offer before the municipalities are ready to take over, primarily to save money. It's a serious example, which I would like the Council of State to be a little more active than the passive approach you have to what I think is a problem in addition to just this particular one. The handling of this matter in Stortinget has been about this for us, ensuring a professional environment and a good offer for the patients. I am therefore so pleased that the centre party now subsidiaryly supports our decision, and I hope that SV does the same thing. It would mean a great victory for all those who have engaged in this matter if the Storting could have gathered behind that decision. At the same time, I find it alarming to see the government and the government parties, who waive their responsibility in this matter. The closure of the 2 East is a direct consequence of the cuts made by the government to health businesses through the so-called ABE reform, and the requirement made by the government to make profits in order to build a new hospital in Stavanger. The management of Health Stavanger is honest that it is behind this closure. I wish for the same honesty from the Council of State and Government parties, who are on the whole responsibility. But I can so see, regardless of whether the council will not be as honest here in the hall as he might have been, almost guarantee that this is a matter Höie will see again in his new role as county councilman, and not only be a matter he has something to do with when he's on his way to the cabin. Again: I hope that today we see that SV is also substituting for our proposal, so that it gets a majority. It will again, as I said, be a great victory for all those who have engaged in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1465	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1481	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will suggest that there is no replication, and that those who draw on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1490	‘Water in Norway, water of purity; where one lies down and drinks, That's what I'm thinking about." That's how Nordahl Grieg expressed it, and that's probably also the goal of today's goal, that we should be able to lay down and drink water when we're out walking in the woods and nature. The 2006 Water Framework Directive is probably the most important, perhaps the most comprehensive and ambitious environmental directive Norway has implemented. It was the first environmental directive that provided the basis for more integrated and coordinated management of the aquatic environment. This was before the adoption of the Nature Diversity Act in 2009. Water management is a cross-sectoral area. It affects us at all stages, whether it's the life-giving water most of us have in the kitchen spring, or the water we wash down the sewer, or the water animals and plants depend on in nature, the fish lives in, and it's also the water that flows over when climate change and extreme weather strikes streets, cities, towns and rivers. All of this makes it important and natural that the Water Directive is provided for in the Planning and Building Act. Water needs cross-sectoral planning, involvement and implementation. The purpose of the Water Regulation is to protect and, if necessary, improve the status of fresh water, groundwater and coastal areas. It also provides a framework for setting environmental objectives to ensure maximum overall protection and sustainable use of water bodies. In view of this, the Nature Diversity Act embraces all kinds of impacts on nature, including water – fresh water, coastal waters, yes, even transitional waters. Homeing the natural diversity law that we are today invited to adopt will therefore help to cover the entire scope of the water legislation. It is a unanimous committee that agrees that the water regulation is also provided for in the Nature Diversity Act. Nevertheless, the Committee would point out that this suspension does not weaken the provisions of the Planning and Building Act. It is crucial for water management and the ability to achieve the objectives of the Water Regulation through comprehensive planning, involvement, anchoring and implementation. The Committee, in the light of previously proposed proposals from the Government on the transfer of the water authority from the regionally elected level to the state level, has also underlined the importance of continuing regional planning of water management plans. Norwegian water management and compliance with the water regulations must be said to be a success, with local involvement, ownership, involvement and implementation, where different interests have had to take and give, but where good solutions have emerged. The important interaction will now continue with an additional home also in the Nature Diversity Act. It is therefore a unanimous committee which today recommends its position, and I would also like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1520	I would first of all like to thank the Committee and the rapporteur for their very good cooperation on this matter. Water and water management are subject to several laws. Making sure that the water regulations also have the basis of a law, in the nature diversity law, makes sense. The water regulation is about fresh water and coastal water, how we take care of it and protect it from harmful influences. When the water regulation was laid down, there was no natural maladministration to authorise it. That the government is now going to give this home is therefore very logical and very good. It seems to me quite natural that our water is also part of the Natural Diversity Act. Water is nature, and water is influenced by nature. This will help us to have an even greater opportunity to prevent our water from being adversely affected, and to ensure that we can operate an even more comprehensive and responsible water management system. We're lucky with our water in Norway. We drink it, we bathe in it, and that's the basis for much of our value creation. We believe that this home is important in order to fulfil the purpose of the regulation on overall protection and sustainable use of water bodies. We therefore believe that it is necessary to ensure good management of water bodies in Norway. We have to take care of our valuable water. It has been nice to see that the hearing bodies in this matter have been so concerned about how we can ensure our water as best we can. In the right and the rest of the committee, we agree with them that planning processes should follow the Planning and Building Act and that county municipalities should still play a central role in water management. Fortunately, the government also agrees with us on this, and with such broad consensus on it it seems that water management in the regions has a bright future.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1531	In this bill, the Ministry of Climate and Environment promotes proposals for changes to the Nature Diversity Act. The proposal envisages the inclusion of a new regulatory body for the implementation of the Water Directive, so that the water legislation can also be provided under the Nature Diversity Act. The water legislation came before the Nature Diversity Act and was therefore given on the basis of other laws — the Planning and Building Act, the Pollution Act and the Water Resource Act. Like the water legislation, the Nature Diversity Act is a cross-sectoral approach, with an ecosystem-based approach, covering all kinds of natural impacts. The Law of Nature fits well with the purpose of the water regulation. Providing the water regulation with the basis of the Nature Diversity Act will make it more clear that the provisions of the Water Regulation also apply to coastal water bodies which are subject to an influence other than that which can be clearly regarded as pollution. This applies, for example: physical action and impact of live animals and plants in coastal waters. There is therefore a legal need for the water regulation to be enshrined in the Nature Diversity Act. I am pleased that an overall committee is behind the proposal for a decision. In its opinion, the Committee stressed that the water regulation should state that planning processes should continue to comply with the Planning and Building Act and that the final water management plans should be regional plans. This will be followed up in the revised water regulations. It has also been decided that county municipalities should maintain the role of coordination in the water regions. On 13 June this was decided by the government. There will be no change in water management, so the bill has no significance for this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1544	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1562	In Great Norwegian encyclopaedia we can read that the Lopenhagen is an open seapiece between Fuglöa and Arnøya in Troms and Sørøya in Finnmark, which extends over approx. 70 km and is one of the most weather-hardest routes along the lease north. Large parts of this area have been proposed as a marine protection area. Selection focused on specificity and representativeness in relation to regions and coastal regions. It is under the protection category «Open Coastal Zones». The following protection measures and reference areas have been selected in the proposal for the protection of parts of the LOP: coral reef shrimp fish snorkelling water quality The area recommended for protection from Fylkesman is a total of 3,045 km 2 – and here I have to correct in relation to my inter-pellation text – of which the specified reference areas represent a very small proportion. The protection is valid for 200 years. With this backstop, it is necessary for the fishing communities and the fishing industry covered by this protection to be made clear what it entails for the fishing interests and the use of the coastline in the municipalities concerned. The area concerns four fishing municipalities: Alta, Loppa, Hasvik and Hammerfest. These municipalities have always used and harvested from this sea area. Local authorities have requested, but have not received a response to what protection in the proposed scope will result from changes in the use of the site. The natural use of sea area and coastline in and around the Lap Sea is the construction of berths and nausts, the deepening and dredging of ports, the construction of moles and wave protection. Furthermore, the Norwegian authorities have committed to a large increase in the growth of Norwegian aquaculture, which requires significant sea area. It is necessary for environmental protection authorities to clarify whether the natural fishing activities related to the fishing industry in the area will require a derogation from any measure, due to the protection status of the LOP. In concrete terms, I would like to answer the following simple questions: Will it be banned in the protected area? Will active instruments such as trawls and nets be prohibited in the protection area? Will it be possible in the future to harvest shells, seaweed or seaweed in the protected area? Could there be restrictions in the construction of quays and nausts in the municipalities bordering the protection area? Will it be possible to dredging and deepen ports adjacent to the protection area? Will start-up of aquaculture in the protected area be possible? Is it possible to take technical measures/small interventions and place cables and pipes in this protection area? Will one or more of the natural activities of a coastal municipality require an application for a derogation from the protection authorities? The current coastal communities are organised in the West-Finland Regional Council. The Council of the Regions understands that Norway has international obligations to protect a representative sample of Norwegian nature for future generations, but they cannot accept that 3045 km 2 of the Lopenhagen should be protected in order to meet these obligations. The West-Finnmark Regional Councils wish to contribute to the implementation of the protection of major sea areas linked to the proposed reference areas. The Regional Council therefore proposes the protection of approx. half of the original area. This proposal of the West Finnmark Regional Council ensures the reference areas for the selected protection measures, both water quality, coral reefs, reefs and reefs1. With this decision, the West-Finnmark Regional Council is demonstrating its willingness to take its share of the national marine protection. I read the Western Finnmark Regional Council's position as positive to protection, but with a clear need to clarify the use of this area. The best protection of an area is reasonable use. Through good and clarifying processes between authorities and users, the population will continue to reap from its natural resources and contribute to value creation in Norway. The municipalities of Alta, Hasvik, Loppa and Hammerfest are required to be fully informed about the time perspective for final decisions and when the municipalities are informed about the consequences for each municipality. Finally, in order to achieve maximum protection, it is reasonable to inform, facilitate the sustainable use of the land and – not least – to include a few people who have traditionally used and harvested this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1632	Marine protected areas may be established under the Nature Diversity Act up to 12 nautical miles from the baseline, i.e. in territorial waters. The government assumes that cross-sectoral marine protection under the Nature Diversity Act § 39 will contribute to the preservation of a range of representative, specific, vulnerable or threatened marine subsea natural habitats and natural resources for the future. The provision for marine protection areas is not applicable outside the territorial waters. Within marine protection areas, in line with the protection objective in question, all activities which may impair the protection values are regulated. Activities that do not conflict with the purpose of protection will continue to be allowed, e.g.: there is no general prohibition of fishing in the marine protection areas. Marine protection is therefore not an obstacle to activity which does not harm the protection values. Protection regulations use exemptions from the protection provisions and general and specified exemptions in order to adapt the relevant rules to the purpose of each protection zone. These areas, together with areas protected by other legislation, shall form a network of protected and protected areas to take care of ecosystems and natural values. I cannot comment on the concrete content of the Lopenhagen protection process since it will later be sent to the Ministry of Climate and Environment for treatment. However, about the process itself, I would like to say that this started in 2009 and that an impact assessment was carried out in 2010. In 2016, an update of the impact assessment was carried out on the themes of fisheries and aquaculture. The Ministry of Climate and Environment emphasises that the work on marine protection areas should be carried out with good local involvement and anchoring. The Ministry has in the course of its work with Löpvet called on the parties involved to clarify the matter as best as possible and to provide, as early as possible, concrete insights into any need for further investigation or information on the matter. Meetings have also been held between former political leadership in the Ministry of Climate and Environment and local representatives. The county sent its recommendation to the Environment Directorate in November 2017. Recommendations from the Environment Directorate are expected to be sent to the Ministry during 2018. An international conservation target of 10 pst has been adopted. in coastal and marine areas by 2020, in particular areas of particular importance for biodiversity and ecosystem services. These areas shall be maintained through efficient and appropriately managed, ecologically representative and well-connected systems of protection areas and other effective land-based conservation measures. Norway’s follow-up to the international conservation objective for coastal and marine areas was discussed in the nature diversity communication and its treatment by the Stortinge. The objective adopted under the Convention on Biological Diversity, Aichi Objective 11, includes measures that provide for the effective and long-term conservation of a geographically demarcated area where specific natural values have been identified. Furthermore, it follows from the objective that the measures should constitute an overall ecologically representative and coherent network and that the protected areas should be an integral part of the landscape. This means that the variability in Norwegian nature should be well covered by conservation measures. The assessment of the achievement of the Aichi objective 11 cannot be based solely on a percentage of the area. The various protection regimes all contribute to the achievement of the objective, but differing in the different criteria resulting from the objective. Norway emphasises that decisions to establish marine protected areas should be scientifically justified. It is necessary to facilitate sustainable use where this is compatible with the purpose of protection. The precautionary principle shall be based on insufficient knowledge. It is important that the objective of the protection area is well defined and that the protection measure is effective and targeted and appropriate to ensure long-term protection of nature and ecosystems.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1653	Thanks for the answer, but I have to say that I have not received an answer to what I asked for. I asked a specific question on behalf of the fishing community in these municipalities about what it would mean for them. Do they have to apply for a derogation for the various measures? I understand that fishing will not be contrary to it. That's good, and I'll take that with me. But since I don't get an answer, I repeat, does that mean that they have to apply for a derogation? Would it be permissible to use spindles as tools? Would it be permissible to use a nut and a jet? Will it be allowed to harvest things a not harvester of preliminary, such as seaweed, shells and seaweed? Do you want to be able to build quays and nausts – could there be restrictions on that? Can You Mud Forward? Will the start-up of aquaculture be possible in this area? Is technical intervention possible? Can you put cables and pipes? Or should each measure be exempted? When you ask a question that is so vital and important to those who run and live this industry, I think it's strange when the authorities have been doing this for so long, that they can't answer it out. I must say, I think it's strange. I encourage the Minister to respond specifically to what this will mean for future use of the area, so that people who work and live there can get an answer. We know about protective measures and fundamental protection, but this is about how it can be possible to operate in these areas, and what this will limit. That's what's important. Would it limit? And as I have said, the best protection is use, not irresponsible or unwise use, but use of the area – and not least it should be linked to living and living there.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1662	I may not be able to answer all these questions, simply because I cannot handle the matter directly here in Stortinget. It has not been handed over to the Department of the Environment Directorate. The procedure we have is that County has given its recommendation to the Environment Directorate, and the Environment Directorate will make its recommendation to the Ministry of Climate and Environment, probably during 2018. So we'll take our assessment from that. So where we are now, I just have to include these recordings in the treatment we're going to do, and I can't draw any conclusion on what decisions will be made. But what I can say on a general basis is that it is the purpose of protection that leads to the constraints that need to be imposed. As long as the purpose of protection is respected, there is no reason to have any unnecessary limitations. That has to be the leading thing for what we're going to do. Otherwise, I would like to stress the importance of marine protected areas, including the commitment that Norway has made to the UN Convention on Biological Diversity. Now it is by chance that I come directly from the high-level part of the conference on biodiversity that is now being held in Egypt. I was there yesterday and landed here today. We have a liability of 10 pst. from the Aichi targets, which we are not close to, but we are working with marine protected areas also in Norway, and we are coming back to Stortinget with a matter that has been ordered, in the nature diversity message. But what we're going to do now is work on international, too, is set new goals, in 2020, in Beijing, to stop what is internationally a catastrophic loss of nature. It's clear that we're doing a lot of international work on this. We also do that in the area of the sea, where Norway has taken a leading position. But in order to make the work that we do internationally, it is necessary that we follow up on it at home as well. This is about taking care of the most important natural values. We're going to have an activity within which the important natural values are preserved, and there won't be any unnecessary restrictions on it. It is ecological diversity and the values that it is important to be able to cope with industrial development and other societal developments.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1673	I think we all in this room recognize that the sea is threatened, and that the sea represents unique values and resources, not least in the coastal nation of Norway, the country of the world that has the second longest coastline, and where large parts of the population have always been dependent on the sea, live by the sea today, and where the nation, both present and former governments, has had great ambitions for how to further develop the opportunities for value creation, growth and prosperity that the sea provides. Taking care of the sea and the opportunities that lie there, including through marine protection areas, are not problematic in the interpellation that we have here today. We agree on the importance of that. I am pleased that the Council of State in its response to the interpellant underlines both the importance of good local participation and the need for a well-defined purpose of protection. But I think that the Council of State should perhaps take more into account what is the underlying relationship of the interpellation, which is linked to the unrest, uncertainty and uncertainty that the population affected by any protection area actually experiences. They ask a lot of questions, which the interpellant used in an exemplary way, but they don't experience getting answers to them. There must then be a basis for asking the question: Has there been good local involvement? Could there have been better dialogue with those affected on the premises of those affected? We often think, we who sit here in the capital, that if we invite to a meeting or send out a letter, we have contributed to the participation and enlightenment. But it's not always that you at the other end feel that you've been seen and heard. I share the view that I feel that the representative Olsen is expressing that when we are protecting something and taking care of it, we are doing the best we can with those who live in the areas and those who use it. It is those who have the best knowledge of the areas today who have managed them through use for many years. They've taken care of the particular protective values we want to continue with. I don't think there is necessarily any contradiction between the processes that have started to protect these areas, and the interests of those who are being affected, but I take seriously the uncertainty, the turmoil and the uncertainty that I previously had. I want to challenge the Council of States – I understand that he cannot go into the proceedings, nor has it been the demand – whether he can take an initiative to get the authorities now involved in the proceedings to go into a closer process, a process that facilitates more active participation, to establish a greater common understanding of what this will mean, and in what way it will affect our ability to take care of our way of life, the traditions we have, so that we can continue to live, live and work in a good way where we are today.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1688	Our common food dish, the sea, is exposed to a number of threats. It is overfishing, pollution from industry and other activities and plastic waste. Therefore, the work on marine protection plans is essential. The time we saw the threats to important natural areas on land, the work of national parks and other protective plans speeding. If you are to appoint a Norwegian National Park Minister, many might think of the former Right-State Council, Mr Børge Brende, who was given a wide range of decisions on the establishment of national parks in Norway, but I would like to remind the representatives of the Labour Party in this Chamber that the one who provided the basis for that protection plan, and who is actually sitting with the credit, is former Environment Minister Torbjørn Berntsen. I therefore hope that the Workers' Party will observe the proud tradition for which he laid the foundation, and finish wholeheartedly about the incredibly important work that we are now doing in order to take care of also the areas along our coast. I believe that there is an urgent need to take care of the areas now designated as candidates for the marine protection plan along the coast. I would like to hear from the Council of State if he is going to make progress in this work so that we can fulfil our international obligations, but also – and more importantly – can take care of the unique areas along the coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1697	Now that there are doubts about the Workers' Party's desire to protect sea areas, I believe that both the inter-pellant and the posts of the representative Sivertsen have been misunderstood, but I also believe that both the municipality and the West-Finnmark Regional Council have been misunderstood. It's not like you're against protection, it's not like you're against a marine protective plan. On the contrary, constructive input has been made into how to take care of existing industries and opportunities for industrial development, while at the same time contributing to the implementation of national and international protection objectives. Hasvik is one of the largest island communities we have. We know that protection offers opportunities, but we also know that protection gives us some limitations. The feeling here that there have been no inclusive processes and enough information along the way leads, of course, to anxiety. You get worried when you live off and on the sea. As an island community, you depend on good infrastructure. You depend on good ferries, fast boats, but you also depend on being able to harvest the sea. So I want to encourage the Council of States, when we get a little bit further in the processes, to take seriously the signals coming from the community and the whole of West Finland, listen to the recordings, like to visit Hasvik, make themselves available and give qualified answers to the questions and concerns that people have, because they're extremely real. So I remind you again that if this area hadn't been handled correctly by those who have inhabited it for centuries, we wouldn't have been in the situation that we had something to protect. So I fully agree with the interpellant that the best protection is reasonable use.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1706	Thank you to the Council of State for your answer, and thank you to the others who have made contributions here. I understand that you can't be detailed, but I think it's important that you take seriously the concerns of people who are professionals and give them proper answers. I think it might be a good idea for us all who want to protect, take care of our nature, that we provide real, good information. I would encourage the minister to go north, have answers to concrete things that people wonder about, and make sure that it becomes good implementation, and that people get good and qualified answers. If we don't get into the situation that we can often do sometimes, that politics and practices collide. It doesn't have to do it in this case, because here we have the same goal. We all want to take care of the sea. We'll all be able to keep living by what the sea gives. I also want to tell Haltbrecken that the Workers' Party is not against protection. We haven't been, and we're not. But we also want it to be possible to live and live and use the resources we have. I think the most important thing that can come out of this interpellation is that the population in this area, the people who are going to live on it, can get better information. Then there has been an important interpellation and an important contribution to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1713	First, I want to thank you for the interpellation and for the contributions to what is an important matter. It is an important matter for those who live by and are related to the Lov, and Lovage is also important far beyond the area. This is an important matter for the country. As I said in my post, the ministry has repeatedly stressed that there will be good participation. The proceedings are usually conducted, including the consultations carried out by the State. As I also mentioned, former political leadership has also been in contact with local representatives. As far as my own proceedings are concerned, I almost have to – and I think that is also wise – wait until I get the case sent with a recommendation from the Environment Directorate. Then we have to look at how we're going to take that case further, both in terms of what enquiries come in, and whether it's right to go on an inspection. There's something I'm familiar with doing in many cases, and I've done before. The representative halt called for progress. From 2004, 36 sites were identified. Seven of these are protected today. So what we have today is six marine areas. We have four marine national parks: Outer Whales, Feathers, Virgin Land and Raet. We have protected areas in connection with the national parks of Svalbard, Bjørnøya and Jan Mayen, and I also placed an order at Van Mijenfjorden a short time ago. We have also protected 18 coral areas, not according to the Nature Diversity Act, but under the Maritime Administration Act. There are now nine areas which have been transferred to the Ministry and there are several areas which are in the process of the County and the Environment Directorate. There is also an order from Stortinget that we will come back to Stortinget with a case that was well agreed in connection with the nature diversity announcement, if I am not mistaken. These are important issues — these are important issues for Norway, there are important issues at the local level — also in order to ensure the development of nutrition and how we are to ensure the protection of these objectives. In the end, I have to say, what I think is very good about this debate is that everyone agrees that it is important to safeguard the values, and then it is about how we do the best we can, and that there should not be any restrictions beyond what is necessary, in order to preserve those values.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1728	The debate on substance is closed. So 7 is going to be over.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1740	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1749	A total of three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Tuva Moflag on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Tuva Moflag on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 3, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Center Party and the Christian People's Party Proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to introduce further regulation of solar devices in order to limit the presence of pedigree, including the imposition of a ban on advertising.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1778	Proposal No. 3, from the Center Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to reconsider the regulation and enforcement regime for solar devices in order to limit the presence of feces, including the issue of a ban on advertising.’ The Greens and Reds have every subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1795	President! The Labour Party was to vote in favour of the proposal. It was notified.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1800	Then we take the vote again. The Labour Party, the Greens/Reds Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1814	Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for sufficient capacity in the pathology field to be equipped with the announced increase in both pectoris and other cancers in the coming years’.» The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1838	Right, the Progress Party and the Left have notified that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1854	A total of two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Tuva Moflag on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 2, from Kjersti Top on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 2, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to make proposals for improvements in the current authorisation system for health institutions and healthcare. In particular, the authorisation system should also be extended to services that do not require accommodation, it should be possible to continue to focus on social or professional aspects of authorisation and whether the health institution or healthcare is covered by plans developed by regional health establishments.’» The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1880	Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 2 of July 1999 61 on the specialist health service, etc. Section 4-1 is replaced by the following: § 4-1 Approval of establishments and health services The Ministry may lay down requirements for the approval of establishments and health services covered by this Act where it considers the quality of the service, patient safety, social security, preparedness, social or professional considerations. The use of the designation ‘university hospitals’ shall be authorised by the Ministry. The Ministry may lay down detailed rules on the conditions for granting the authorisation required in accordance with the first subparagraph. The ministry may withdraw approval where the activity for which the approval has been granted does not meet the requirements set out in the Regulation. The approval holder shall be obliged to provide the Ministry with the information required by the Ministry for the performance of his/her duties. The Ministry may carry out an examination in the form of an on-site examination: [[inspection]]
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1935	The working party has already received subsidiary support for the suspension. The Green Party has already given its support to the vote. The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1947	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote. The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1961	The Bill decision will be set up for a second time in a future Storting meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1970	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1-4, by Tellef Inge Mørland on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 5-8, by Tellef Inge Mørland on behalf of the Labour Party and the Centre Party
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e1982	Proposal No. 5-8, from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: «The government is asking that since the wharfstannekt.no becomes a real tool for the customer by all dentists registering their prices there, and in a way that makes them comparable. The government is also asked to consider measures in favour of dental practitioners who choose not to use this site but who at the same time operate a practice in which they receive reimbursement for dental treatments from the public. ‘... Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess the need for an extension of the rights under the Public Security Act for persons with certain cancer diagnoses affecting the health of the oral cavity, and for cancer survivors with dental complications.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking for measures to reduce antibiotic resistance in Norwegian dental services and measures to prevent the development of increased use of dental treatment in countries with a high risk of spreading resistant bacteria.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to evaluate the centres of expertise in dental health, on the basis that centres of expertise contribute to the decentralisation and further development of regional competences in dental health.’ The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have already supported the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e2016	Proposal No. 2-4, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the Municipal Health and Dental Priority Committee also proposes which reimbursement schemes should be given priority, and the facility thereon, if the reimbursement schemes are to be extended with the aim of reaching more weaker groups.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a price cap for dental treatments fully or partially refunded by the public, where reimbursement rates must be perceived as predictable both for patients and dental professionals.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to investigate and come back to Stortinget with a case with an extension of the public dental service where several groups are included in the public dental service.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e2045	Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to come back to Stortinget with a case of strengthening Norwegian dental health, with the aim of smoothing social inequalities in dental health by helping those who need it the most. The Storting asks that the case contains: a. proposals for strengthening the prevention of good public health; b. a review of the dental health refund schemes; c. proposals that will help those who do not currently have a financial opportunity to carry out the necessary dental treatment d. proposals for improving and simplifying the arrangements for reimbursement through public security for special diagnosis.’;» The Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e2082	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e2098	A total of ten proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Ingvild Kjerkol on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 2, by Oluk V. Bollestad on behalf of the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party proposed no. 3-7, from Kjersti Top on behalf of the Party of Centrals and the Left Party of Socialists proposed no. 8 and 9, by Marius Meisfjord Jösevold on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 10, from the Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e2119	Proposal No. 8 and 9 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with the necessary proposals to ensure that experience and employee pay and employment conditions are safeguarded by the suspension of all ambulance services, either in the event of transfer of business or similar obligations.’;» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The decision requests the Government to investigate the public/ideal operation of all ambulance services and to return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e2143	Proposal No. 4, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to ensure that health care establishments do not centralise or decommission ambulance services.» Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e2160	Proposal No. 3 and Proposal No. 5-7, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit an action plan for better ambulance services in Norway.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government requests the provision of a maritime and medically sound ambulance offer on the Lap Sea, which also includes business transfer requirements.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks that requirements for joint emergency medical plans for municipalities and health firms, and regular training with the other emergency situations, be laid down in a future revised emergency medical regulation.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government requests an evaluation of the functioning, development and financing of the emergency aid scheme.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e2194	Proposal No. 2, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests regulatory response time and base the Committee’s proposal for national response times of 8, 12 and 25 minutes.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e2211	Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the provision of a maritime and medically sound ambulance offer on the Lopenhagen, where current experience and competence are maintained, either through negotiations with operators, through a possible new bidding round requiring a transfer of activities in accordance with the provisions of the Working Environment Act, or by any other appropriate means.’;» The Greens have already given their support to the proposal. The Central Party and the Socialist Left have every subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e2231	Proposal No. 10 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the investigation of the public/ideal operation of the air ambulance service, cf. Decision 861 (Not more than. [[2017-2018]] 362 S The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e2255	Right, the Progress Party and the Left have notified that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e2271	A total of four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1 and 2, by Tellef Inge Mørland on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Tellef Inge Mørland on behalf of the Labour Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No 4, from Kjersti Top on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 4, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the 16 beds in the rehabilitation unit 2 East of Eigersund are maintained.’ Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e2300	Proposal No. 1 and 2, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen the provision of rehabilitation services to patients with coal in both municipalities and health businesses and to ensure that health businesses do not reduce their services until similar conditions have been established in the municipalities.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to correct the geographical and regional differences in patients’ access to specialised rehabilitation.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e2324	Proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that municipalities in the region are given the opportunity to build up the necessary competence and capacity to take over the responsibility of the patient group concerned if the decision to close the 2 East Eigersund rehabilitation department is maintained.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left, the Green and Red Environmental Party have already supported the proposal in a subsidiary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e2348	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e2407	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e2417	The law decision is set up for the second time in a later Storting meeting. Furthermore, it was set:
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e2436	In Case No. 7 introduces no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2018-11-15.ana.ud251e2456	This means that today's maps are ready. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
